Item 1A “Risk
Factors.”  Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company.  The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments.

 

Part I








Item 1. 


Business







This discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1.  Garmin has four business segments: Marine, Automotive/Mobile, Outdoor/Fitness, and Aviation.   The segment and geographic information included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial
response to this Item 1.




Garmin was incorporated in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company  (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).  Pursuant to
the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (“CHF”) per share, of Garmin.  Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.




Garmin’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s Internet website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).  The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.




The reference to Garmin’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form   10-K.




  



3







  




Company Overview




Garmin is a leading, worldwide provider of navigation, communication and information devices and applications, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System (“GPS”) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse family of hand-held, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile, outdoor/fitness, marine, and general aviation markets.




Overview of the Global Positioning System




The Global Positioning System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite technology. The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment program to ensure continuous global system coverage.   Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government.




Prior to May 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability (‘‘SA’’) for national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a radius of 100 meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004, the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA again and is committed to preventing hostile use of GPS through regional denial of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS receiver can calculate its position to an accuracy of approximately 10
meters or less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications.




The accuracy and utility of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (‘‘WAAS’’) comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United States and portions of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of
WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS system had achieved initial operating capability and that the system was available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics equipment. Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites.




Japan’s MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal and approach navigation for aviation in September 27, 2007.  Garmin is working closely with the European Satellite Services Provider (ESSP) in preparation for the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service declaration which is planned in 2011.




Recent Developments in the Company’s Business




Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 81 million products, which includes the delivery of over 16 million products during 2010.




Acquisitions




In September 2010 Garmin acquired MetriGear, Inc., the creator of a pedal-based power measurement solution for cyclists that integrates a force and motion sensor platform into the spindles of bicycle pedals to measure a cyclist’s performance.




In October 2010 Garmin acquired Belanor AS, the distributor of Garmin’s automotive, outdoor recreation, fitness and marine products in Norway.




  



4







  




Automotive/Mobile Product Introductions

 

In January 2010 Garmin announced the zūmo® 220 and zūmo 665 touchscreen navigators for motorcycles, ecoRoute™ hd, a device that transforms a compatible Garmin navigation device into a real-time onboard diagnostics computer, and Voice Studio™, a free PC application that lets anyone record their own voice to create custom pre-recorded navigation prompts for use on compatible Garmin navigation
devices.

 

In April 2010 Garmin announced the nüvi® 3700 series of portable navigation devices featuring an ultra-thin, pocket-friendly design and large-screen, high-resolution glass displays with capacitive touch panels

 

In September 2010 Garmin announced the nüvi 2200 and nüvi 2300 series of entry-level portable navigation devices and the nüLink! 1695 five-inch touchscreen portable navigation device that connects drivers with relevant, online information from Garmin’s nüLink! service, including links to online information like Google™ Local Search, traffic, weather, fuel prices, flight status, and other real-time, location-relevant content.

 

In November 2010 Garmin announced that it would provide an integrated navigation package for the 2011 Suzuki Grand Vitara and SX4 models which would offer connectivity to wireless online information like Google™ local search, traffic, weather, fuel prices, movie listings, flight status, local events, and white page telephone listings

 

During 2010, Garmin-Asus, a co-branded alliance between Garmin and ASUSTeK® Computer Inc. (“ASUS”), introduced the nüvifone™ A10, A50 and M10 location-centric mobile handset models. In October 2010 Garmin and ASUS announced that they would not introduce any new co-branded handset models going forward but would continue to sell and support models that they had already introduced to the market.  ASUS announced that it would design and manufacture new models of ASUS-branded mobile phones, some of which would include
preloaded Garmin navigation and Location Based Service (LBS) applications. Garmin announced that it would expand its mobile handset application development and would offer navigation and other applications through certain consumer application stores.

 

Outdoor/ Fitness Product Introductions

 

Garmin expanded its line of products for golfers in 2010 with the introduction of the Approach® G3 golf-specific handheld and the Approach S1 GPS wristwatch designed specifically for golf.

 

Garmin also expanded its line of products for cyclists in 2010 with the introduction of the Edge® 800 cycling computer which combines the most popular aspects of the industry-leading Edge 500 and Edge 705 while adding a touchscreen interface.

 

Garmin added to its line of products for running enthusiasts in 2010 with the introduction of the Forerunner® 110, 210 and 410 GPS-enabled sports watches.

 

In June 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP® 62 series of rugged outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and outdoors enthusiasts. Also in June 2010 Garmin announced the DC™ 40 tracking collar, for Garmin’s Astro® GPS Dog Tracking System.

 

In October 2010 Garmin announced chirp™, a wireless beacon designed specifically for geocaching, which can communicate with, and be programmed by, any compatible wireless-enabled Garmin handheld.

 

In December 2010 Garmin announced the creation of OpenCaching.com, a  free online community for creating, sharing and finding geocaches around the world.

 

Marine Product Introductions




In January 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP® 700 series of seven-inch touchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters with radar capability and built-in sonar.

 




  



5







  




 

In February 2010 Garmin announced the AIS 300 receiver that enables monitoring of other nearby Class A and Class B Automatic Identification System (AIS)-enabled vessels that may pose a collision risk.




In April 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP® 78 series of marine-friendly GPS handhelds featuring a new contemporary industrial design with rubber side grips.




In September 2010 Garmin announced the GHP™ 12 sailboat autopilot system for 20- to 70-foot sailboats equipped with linear-actuated steering systems.




In November 2010 Garmin announced the echo™ series of standalone fishfinders with Garmin HD-ID™ target tracking technology. Also in November 2010 Garmin announced the GMR™ 404 xHD and GMR 406 xHD, two new 4 kilowatt open-array marine radars.




Aviation Product Introductions and Certifications




During 2010 Garmin announced two new products for the helicopter market, the G500H all-glass avionics system designed specifically for helicopters and a Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) for use with Garmin’s GNS 430W/530W navigators.




In July 2010 Garmin announced that it was developing a new stability augmentation system called Garmin’s Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system which would be offered as an option for Garmin’s G1000 and G3000 integrated flight decks and which would assist the pilot in maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain situations to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become distracted, disoriented or incapacitated during flight. Also in July 2010 Garmin announced the GSR 56 Iridium datalink and GDL 59 data logger and Wi-Fi datalink and announced that the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) had granted Supplemental Type Certification (STC) for the G1000 integrated flight deck in the Cessna CitationJet.




In October 2010 Garmin announced that it was developing the G5000™ integrated flight deck for the Part 25 business jet market and Cessna Aircraft Company announced that it was developing a larger version of its Citation X jet which would feature the Garmin G5000 flight deck.




In December 2010 Garmin announced that had received the European Aviation Safety Agency’s (EASA) validation of the U.S. STC (Supplemental Type Certificate) for the installation of the Garmin G1000 avionics suite in the King Air 200 and B200.




Products

 


Garmin has achieved a leading market position and a history of growth in revenues and profits by offering ergonomically designed, user-friendly products with innovative features and designs covering a broad range of applications and price points.  Garmin’s target markets are currently broken down into its four main business segments – automotive/mobile, outdoor/fitness, marine and aviation.



 

Automotive/Mobile




Garmin offers a broad range of automotive navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market.  Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics.  The table below includes a sampling of the primary automotive and mobile products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.




  



6







  



 







nüvi®

  


(52 models)


The nüvi is Garmin’s popular personal navigation device (PND).  All nüvi models combine a full-featured GPS navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmin’s uniquely simple user interface.  Different nüvi models and optional add-ons offer a plethora of additional feature sets, including a wide screen display, integrated traffic receiver for traffic data (including some models with lifetime traffic updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names, voice recognition, speed limit indication, lane assist, 3-D building view, junction view, Bluetooth® hands-free
capability, built-in maps of Europe, and the ability to add custom points of interest and a custom GPS voice.  Numerous newer nüvi models also offer a feature called ecoRoute™, which is a feature designed to help improve the vehicle’s fuel efficiency by suggesting route calculations based upon less fuel usage and a driving challenge program that helps reinforce fuel-efficient driving practices.  Garmin’s newest nüvi models – the 3700 series – offer an award-winning, super-thin design and such other newer features as a multi-touch glass display, nüRoute™ technology, 3-D terrain view, and pedestrian mode.  In fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, the nüvi class of products represented approximately 54%, 63%, and 64% of Garmin’s total consolidated revenues.


  
  


zūmo®

  


(4 models)


Motorcycle-specific navigators with features including a glove-friendly touch screen with high bright sunlight-readable display, motorcycle mount, vibration-tested design, and Bluetooth wireless technology.  An SD (secure digital) card slot allows riders to share their favorite places and rides with fellow zūmo riders.  The zūmo 660 features 3-D building view and lane assist and a digital fuel gauge.  The zūmo 220 offers a smaller form factor than previous models, while the 665 includes an antenna for XM Satellite Radio<font style="DISPLAY: inline; FONT-SIZE: 70%; VERTICAL-ALIGN:
text-top">®, XM NavWeather® and XM NavTraffic® (subscription is required for XM content).


  
  


StreetPilot® app


Launched in January 2011, this smartphone application allows Apple iPhone® or iPad® users to download premium Garmin navigation to their device, allowing for turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other popular Garmin navigation features.


  
  


Garmin Mobile® for

  


BlackBerry


Garmin Mobile for BlackBerry is a subscription-based software application that lets compatible BlackBerry devices function as versatile GPS navigators.








Outdoor/Fitness




The table below includes a sampling of the outdoor and fitness products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.

 






Forerunner®

  


(9 models)


Compact, lightweight training assistants for athletes with integrated GPS sensor (except for FR60 fitness watch) that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function.  The FR 60 is an entry-level advanced fitness watch that allows runners and walkers to track their workouts and automatically upload their data (via a wireless USB ANT™ Stick) to a personal computer.  The Forerunner 405 is a compact-sized, wrist-worn GPS-enabled device that allows runners and joggers to track their speed, distance, heart rate and location, access their training history or challenge a Virtual Partner™ and automatically upload their data
wirelessly to a personal computer.  The Forerunner 405CX adds heart-rate based calorie computation and improved comfort to the numerous features available on the Forerunner 405.  The Forerunner 310XT model, which was designed specifically for triathletes, is water-resistant to 50m and tracks biking and running data (and optional heart rate data). The Forerunner 410 — the highest end model in the Forerunner family — offers an enhanced touch bezel designed to allow users to quickly scroll and select features on the run.





 



 



7







 



  






Edge®

  


(6 models)


Integrated personal training systems designed for cyclists. The Edge 205 measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, altitude and more.  The Edge 305 adds a heart rate monitor and/or wireless speed/pedaling cadence sensor.  The Edge 605 and 705 provide mapping capabilities (including street navigation) and a 2.2” color display in addition to tracking vertical profiles, climb and descent, altitude, speed, distance, and time.  The Edge 500 is geared toward performance-driven cyclists by offering the ability to track even more performance data in a streamlined form factor.  The newest model — the Edge 800 — added a touchscreen interface
to the Edge family of products.


  
  


Dakota®

  


(2 models)


The Dakota series is Garmin’s entry level series of handheld GPS navigators with built-in mapping.  The Dakota 10 is a rugged, palm-sized navigator that offers a touchscreen display, high-sensitivity GPS, and a built-in worldwide basemap.  The Dakota 20 adds a barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, and a microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps.  The 20 model also allows a user to share waypoints, tracks, routes and geocaches wirelessly with other compatible Dakota, Foretrex®, Oregon® and
Colorado® users.


  
  


Oregon®

  


(4 models)


The Oregon series combines a bright 3 inch color touchscreen, rugged design and a variety of hiker-friendly features.  The Oregon 450 and Oregon 450t offer a rugged, sunlight-readable, touchscreen along with a built-in basemap with shaded relief, a high-sensitivity receiver, barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, microSD™ card slot, picture viewer and more. The high-end Oregon 550 and 550t models each come with a built-in 3.2 megapixel autofocus digital camera with 4x digital zoom, and each photo taken by these devices is automatically geotagged with the location of where it was taken, allowing the user to navigate back to that exact spot in the future.





 





Rino®

  


(5 models)


Handheld two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) radios that integrate two-way voice communications with GPS navigation.  Features include patented “peer-to-peer position reporting” so you can transmit your location to another Rino radio.  The Rino 110 offers an FRS/GMRS radio plus basic GPS navigator. The Rino 120 adds an internal basemap and MapSource compatibility for street-level mapping.  The Rino 130 has 24 MB of internal memory, built-in electronic compass, barometric sensor, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather radio receiver.  The Rino 520HCx has a high sensitivity GPS receiver, 5
watts of transmit power, color display, mini-USB interface, and a turn-by turn automatic route calculation for use in automobiles.  The Rino 530HCx has all of the features of the Rino 520HCx, plus a seven-channel weather receiver, electronic compass, and barometric altimeter.




 



 



8







 



 






GPSMAP®62

  


(3 models)


Rugged outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and outdoors enthusiasts. The basic GPSMAP 62 includes a built-in worldwide basemap with shaded relief. The GPSMAP 62s adds a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass and wireless connectivity for sharing routes, tracks, waypoints and geocaches between other compatible Garmin handhelds. The GPSMAP 62s also includes a barometric altimeter that tracks changes in pressure to pinpoint the precise altitude. In addition to these  features, the GPSMAP 62st includes preloaded 100K topographic maps for the entire United States (or preloaded 50K topographic mapping of Canada for the Canadian version).


  
  


Approach®

  


(3 models)


The Approach G5 is a waterproof, touchscreen, handheld GPS for golfers that features over 14,000 preloaded golf course maps. Approach G5 uses a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to measure individual shot distances and show the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens.  A new statistic-tracking feature was made available by download for the G5 in 2010 that allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics.  The Approach G3 is a smaller, lighter version of the G5, yet still offers over 14,000 preloaded courses.  Neither model requires any ongoing subscription fees.  In October 2010, Garmin announced the newest Approach model – the Approach<font style="DISPLAY:
inline; FONT-SIZE: 70%; VERTICAL-ALIGN: text-top">® S1.  The S1 is a wearable golf watch that displays precise yardages to the front, back and middle of greens and comes preloaded with over 14,000 courses.


  
  


Astro®


High sensitivity GPS-enabled dog tracking system.  The Astro is designed to pinpoint up to ten dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and a handheld system.  The system also provides a Dog Tracker page and a Covey Countertm to assist the hunter.  It is loaded with many of the features of our outdoor devices including:  barometric altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior.


  
  


GTU-10 GPS Tracker


On January 4, 2011, Garmin announced the GTU™10, which represents a new category of product for Garmin.  The GTU10 is a GPS locator that combines a web-based tracking service with GPS technology so the user can keep track of children, pets and property by monitoring the device’s location through either a phone or the internet.  The GTU 10 is expected to launch in the first quarter of 2011.





 

Marine




Garmin’s marine products include handhelds, network products and multifunction displays, fixed-mount GPS/chartplotter products, instruments, fishfinders, radar, autopilots, VHF radios, marine networking products, and sounder products.    The table below includes a sampling of some of the marine products that Garmin currently offers to consumers.

 

Marine Chartplotters and Networking Products

 






GPSMAP® 7000 series

  


(4 models)


The GPSMAP 7000 series of large format multi-function displays introduced Garmin’s G Motion technology, which represents an upgrade in speed, smoothness and clarity over prior plotters.  G Motion technology delivers ultra-smooth map panning and zooming with virtually seamless graphical updating in all dimensions.  The 7000 series chartplotters also feature a low-level backlight display and a backlit keypad for use in low-light conditions without compromising vision.  The GPSMAP 7x15 series offers a huge 15-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable touchscreen display, and is offered in two models – the GPSMAP 7015 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery
basemap; and the GPSMAP 7215, which comes pre-loaded with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas. Mariners can also opt for the same XGA resolution in a 12-inch diagonal screen configuration with the GPSMAP 7012 and GPSMAP 7212 models, which offer a worldwide basemap and coastal charts respectively.  All models are compatible with an optional wireless remote and a wireless mouse for additional flexibility and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data).





 



 



9







 



 






GPSMAP® 6000 series

  


(4 models)


Like the 7000 series, the 6000 series models also offer Garmin’s G Motion technology and the features to improve visibility in low-light conditions.  The GPSMAP 6x12 series features a traditional soft-key interface with an alphanumeric keypad and a 12-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable display.  Within this family, Garmin offers the GPSMAP 6012 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 6212 with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas preloaded.  For a smaller display, the GPSMAP 6x08 series offers an 8-inch VGA (640 x 480) sunlight readable display with a soft-key interface.  The models in
the GPSMAP 6000 series are all compatible with an optional wireless remote and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity.


  
  


GPSMAP® 5000 series

  


(6 models)


These touch-screen multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network (a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data) offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color.  The 5212 and 5208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance.  The 5215 and 5015 offer 15-inch diagonal sunlight-readable touchscreen displays.












GPSMAP® 4000 series/

  


4200 series (6 models)


These multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color.  The 4212 and 4208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance.  The 4210 and 4010 feature 10.4-inch diagonal sunlight- readable displays and Garmin’s newer marine user interface.


  
  


GPSMAP® 6x0and 7x0 series

  


(6 models)


The 6x0  series chartplotters offer a super-bright WVGA touchscreen display and provide navigational support for both marine mode and automotive mode (when loaded with optional City Navigator® NT road maps for North America).  The 7x0 models  are  touchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters  offering radar capability and built-in sonar..


  
  


GPSMAP® 5x6 and 5x1

  


series (12 models)


Building upon the success of the GPSMAP 400 and 500 series, the new chartplotters in the GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1 series come standard with an internal high-sensitivity GPS receiver that allows for faster acquisition times and better satellite tracking so that boaters are able to acquire and maintain a GPS fix more easily. In addition, these units boast an improved, high-speed digital design that will increase map drawing and panning speeds.  The sounder (“s”) version of each model comes with a powerful dual-frequency transducer that clearly illustrates depth contours, fish targets and structures in either fresh or salt water.  Many of the new models in this series are also NMEA 2000
certified and can interface with Garmin’s full lineup of NMEA 2000 marine sensors and autopilots, as well as many other third-party sensors.




 



 



10







 



 






GPSMAP® 4x1

  


series (6 models)


With a 4-inch QVGA sunlight-readable display, the GPSMAP 4x1 series was designed for the boater who wants high performance in a small package.  These units feature a high-sensitivity GPS receiver and faster processors, and are offered with the same cartography configuration as the GPSMAP 5x1 series. Likewise, the GPSMAP 4x1s series is also available with a built-in sonar with a 500-watt RMS dual-frequency transducer for offshore use and a 400-watt RMS with a dual beam transducer for inland use.  For satellite weather and radio data, the GPSMAP 441 and 421 are also compatible with the GXM 51 receiver.


  
  


GSD 21 and 22


These “black-box” sounders interface with Garmin display units and chartplotters and enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package.


  
  


GMS 10


The GMS 10 Network Port Expander is the "nerve center" of the Garmin Marine Network.  This 100-Mbit switch is designed to support the connection of multiple sensors to the Garmin Marine Network.





 

Other Marine Products

 






GMI 10


The GMI 10 is a NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument that displays data from multiple remote sensors on one screen.  Mariners can use the GMI 10 to display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon what sensors are connected.


  
  


GPSMAP 78

  


(3 models)


Marine-friendly GPS handhelds featuring a new contemporary industrial design with rubber side grips. The flagship GPSMAP 78sc model adds  high-end features such as a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States.


  
  


VHF Marine Radios

  


(4 models)


This series of marine radios offers differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners.  The VHF 100 is an entry-level, NMEA 0183 compatible VHF marine radio.  The VHF 200 is NMEA 2000 compatible.  The next step up is the VHF 300, which is designed for 35+ foot boats and is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible and offers multi-station support.  Also designed for 35+ foot boats, the VHF 300 AIS is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time.


  
  


Marine

  


Autopilot Systems

  


(4 models)


The newest entry to Garmin’s marine autopilot lineup is the GHP 12, a full-featured marine autopilot designed specifically for sailboats.  This second-generation autopilot is designed for 20- to 70-foot sailboats with linear-actuated steering systems.  For power boats, the GHP 10 autopilot comes with Garmin’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, allowing the helmsman to maneuver the boat. This autopilot automatically re-engages when a steady course is held by the helmsman. The TR-1 Gold Marine Autopilot offers worry-free remote steering and speed control to operators of small gasoline outboard motor boats up to
20 horsepower.  Finally, the GHP 10V Autopilot System for Volvo Penta IPS and Sterndrive Joystick Systems is approved for use with boats that have an integrated Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system and features Garmin’s proven and innovative Shadow Drive™ technology – a patented capability that automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, allowing for quick and safe manual maneuvers without manually disengaging the autopilot.





 



 



11







 



 






Fishfinders

  


(10 models)


Garmin offers 10 different fishfinder options spanning various price points.  The latest addition to Garmin’s fishfinder lineup is five different models of Garmin’s new echo™ fishfinder series, a line of standalone fishfinders that all offer an updated look and new Garmin HD-ID™ target tracking technology.  The echo™ line ranges in price points from models with grayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C, which features a video-quality 640x480 pixel 5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish arch display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet.  In addition to the echo™ series, Garmin also offers five additional
fishfinder options.  All of these models feature Garmin’s Ultrascroll™ technology, which allows boaters to get a faster refresh rate on their sonar display, and dual-beam transducer operation.  Three of these models offer color displays.  The Fishfinder 400C comes with dual beam or dual frequency transducers for easy adaptability to either freshwater or saltwater fishing.  It also offers a new, easy-to-use interface and built in CANet connectivity to enable sonar data to be shared with compatible Garmin chartplotters.





 






Radar

  


(11 models)


Garmin offers both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double as the radar screen.  The GMR™ 18 and 24 models are digital radome products in various sizes and power specifications.  The GMR 404 and 406 open array radar scanners provide even greater clarity and a 72 nautical mile range.  The GMR 18 HD and GMR 24 HD radomes feature digital signal processing providing sharper radar imagery and improved target separation.  The newest generation of open-array digital radar scanners are the GMR™ 1204/1206 xHD, the GMR 604/606 xHD and the GMR 404/406 xHD models, which
transmit with 12, 6 and 4 kilowatts of power respectively.  All six of these open-array scanners have a maximum effective range of 72 nautical miles.  These new xHD scanners provide up to eight times more sampling data than Garmin’s current open-array offerings.







 

Aviation





Garmin’s aviation product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products,  audio panels, cockpit datalink systems and more.


  



 



12







 



 

Garmin’s aviation products have won prestigious awards throughout the industry for their innovative features and ease of use.  The GNS 430/530W offers multiple features and capabilities integrated into a single product. This high level of integration minimizes the use of precious space in the cockpit, enhances the quality and safety of flight through the use of modern designs and components and reduces the cost of equipping an aircraft with modern electronics.  The GNS 430 was recognized by Flying Magazine as the Editor’s Choice Product of the Year for 1998.  In 1994, and again in 2000, Garmin earned recognition
from the Aircraft Electronics Association for outstanding contribution to the general aviation electronics industry.  The GPSMAP 295 won Aviation Consumer Magazine’s Gear of the Year award for best aviation portable product in 2000 and again in 2001. Flying Magazine’s editors awarded the GPSMAP 396 with a 2005 Editors’ Choice Award for outstanding achievements.  The GPSMAP 496, introduced in 2006, won the “2006 Gear of the Year” award from Aviation Consumer magazine.  Flying Magazine’s editors awarded Garmin a 2007
Flying Editors’ Choice Award for making the safety and precision of WAAS (Wide Area Augmentation System) available in its GPS navigation systems.  Garmin was also selected as “Best GPS Ever” by Aviation Consumer magazine for the GPSMAP® 696 in 2009, and in 2010 the Garmin aera™ series aviation GPS was selected as best portable product.   Garmin has been ranked No. 1 among aviation cockpit electronics manufacturers for product support in Professional Pilot magazine’s survey of its readers in each of
the last seven survey years.  Aviation International News also ranked Garmin No. 1 in product support in 2010 and in each of the preceding seven years, as well. Garmin received the Airline Technology Achievement Award from Air Transport World Magazine in January 2005 for championing the development of Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) technology, an enabling technology for air traffic management.




Garmin’s aviation products are sold in both new aircraft/helicopters and the retrofit market where existing aircraft/helicopters are fitted with the latest electronics from Garmin’s broad product line.

 

Garmin has also expanded its range of avionics offerings to leading General Aviation aircraft manufacturers such as the Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Hawker Beechcraft Corporation, Diamond Aircraft Industries, Embraer, Piper Aircraft, Inc., DAHER- SOCATA and Quest Aircraft  through the installation of the G1000 integrated flight deck as original equipment aboard new aircraft. This system integrates attitude, heading, air data, navigation, communication, engine monitoring, and other aircraft functions into a single cohesive system which interfaces with the flight crew using a set of large, bright TFT displays.  The G1000 also includes an integrated autopilot – the
GFC700.  Garmin also has expanded its G1000 certifications to the business jet segment, such as Cessna’s Citation Mustang jet and Embraer’s Phenom 100 and Phenom 300.  Garmin has also announced its next generation integrated flight deck systems, the G3000 and G5000.  Cessna Aircraft Company announced in October 2010 that they have selected Garmin’s G5000 for their flagship business jet, the Citation Ten.  Both Honda Aircraft Corporation and Piper Aircraft simultaneously announced that the G3000 has been selected for the HondaJet and PiperJet respectively.




The table below includes a sampling of some of the aviation products currently offered by Garmin:




Handheld and portable aviation products:

 







aera® series

  


(4 models)


Garmin’s newest aviation handheld series combines the latest aviation portable with a full-featured automotive GPS, allowing pilots to transition between aviation to automotive mode with one touch.  Featuring a crisp 4.3-inch QVGA wide-format display with touchscreen interface, all four aera models come with preloaded automotive maps, a built-in terrain/obstacles aviation database, patented Panel Page instrument display, and other features.  When in aviation mode, pilots see colorful icons that use intuitive pictures and labels to indicate their function. The exterior of each aera model (500, 510, 550 and 560) is identical, but the software features of each model are
tailored to those seeking an entry, mid or high-level aviation handheld.


  
  


GPSMAP 695/696


The GPSMAP 696  offers a bright 7-inch screen, preloaded detailed electronic charts, preloaded airways and IFR map mode. The GPSMAP 696 has a receiver for XM radio and XM WX Satellite Weather (U.S. customers only) that gives next generation radar (NEXRAD), aviation routine weather reports (METARs), terminal aerodrome forecasts (TAFs), temporary flight restrictions (TFRs), lightning, winds aloft, turbulence forecasts, and several other important weather products (XM subscription required). The GPSMAP 695 has the same features except for XM radio and weather.  In July 2010, Garmin announced that the 695/696 would receive new enhanced chart capabilities.






 



 



13







 



 







Pilot My-CastSM


Pilot My-Cast by Garmin is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on compatible mobile phones.  Compared to other aviation weather cell phone applications, Pilot My-Cast is unique because it receives aviation data directly from the National Weather Service, Environment Canada, and Federal Aviation Administration.  Pilot My-Cast is available for both the iPhone® and iPad<font
style="DISPLAY: inline; FONT-SIZE: 70%; VERTICAL-ALIGN: text-top">®.






  

Integrated avionics systems:










G5000™


Following the announcement of the G3000 one year earlier, in October 2010 Garmin announced the G5000, the first touchscreen-controlled integrated glass avionics suite designed for FAR Part 25 business jets. The G5000 — which is scalable for use in a wide range of two-crew aircraft, from light jets to super-midsize and larger models — is designed specifically for crew-flown turbine aircraft and combines a dual multi-sensor flight management system (FMS), touchscreen vehicle management units, and multi-pane cockpit displays. These widescreen displays with touchscreen controls give pilots more useful information at their fingertips than ever before, such as worldwide weather,
Garmin’s synthetic vision technology (SVT™), aircraft synoptics, electronic flight charts, and more.


 
 











G3000™


Announced in October 2009, the G3000, which is designed for use in FAR Part 23 turbine aircraft, is the first touchscreen-controlled integrated flightdeck for light turbine aircraft.  It features extra-wide 14.1-inch displays with split-screen MFD viewing functionality and PFD terrain simulation in 3-D perspective with SVT™ Synthetic Vision Technology.  In July 2010, Garmin announced a new stability augmentation function for the G3000 (and its predecessor G1000) called Garmin’s Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system. This electronic monitoring and correction technology for G3000 and G1000 integrated flight decks works to assist the pilot in
maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain situations to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become distracted, disoriented or incapacitated during flight.  Garmin ESP will be offered as an option on select G3000 and G1000-equipped aircraft.


  
  


G1000®


The G1000 integrates navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution color displays.  The G1000 offers general aviation airplane manufacturers an easy-to-install solution for flight displays and provides the aircraft owner the benefits of a state-of-the-art avionics system which relies on modern technologies such as solid state components and bright, sunlight-readable TFT displays.


  
  


G600


The G600 brings the style and function of an all-glass integrated avionics suite to the retrofit market for FAR Part 23 Class I, II or III aircraft.  The G600 incorporates two individual displays – a PFD and MFD – in a customized package specifically designed for easy retrofit installation. The G600 is designed to communicate and integrate with Garmin’s WAAS enabled panel mount products, and provides essential information such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain and traffic.  Garmin has received the FAA’s Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certification (AML STC) for the G600, which will simplify certification for over 300 different aircraft
models.


  
  


G500


Designed specifically for FAR Part 23 Class I/Class II aircraft (singles and twins under 6,000 lbs.), the G500 is an affordable, dual-screen electronic flight display that works with a pilot’s separate Garmin avionics stack to provide a fully TSO’d “glass cockpit” retrofit option.  The G500 does not include all of the same standard functionality as the G600 (for example, the G500 does not offer SVT (Synthetic Vision Technology) or a standard GAD 43 interface adapter.






 



  



14







  



 







G500H


An all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market.  The G500H contains dual 6.5-inch LCD screens, mounted side-by-side in a single bezel, which puts Primary Flight Display (PFD) and Multi-Function Display (MFD) capabilities right in front the helicopter pilot. The G500H has been optimized for rotorcraft and offers features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather with NEXRAD, and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources.


  
  


G900X™


An all-glass integrated avionics system specifically designed for kitplane builders of the Lancair and Van’s RV-series aircraft. The G900X is a fully-customizable glass cockpit for installation in experimental/kitbuilt and light sport aircraft.  The G900X offers a customizable PFD/MFD combination that features one, two or three all-glass displays; magnetometer; ADAHRS (combined air data and AHRS unit) and engine monitoring.






 






GDU 370/375


Multifunction displays for the light sport retrofit and experimental aircraft markets.








Panel-mount aviation products:

 







400W Series

  


(3 models)


The GNS 430W is the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) successor to Garmin’s popular GNS 430, which was the world’s first ‘‘all-in-one’’ IFR certified GPS navigation receiver/traditional VHF navigation receiver/instrument landing systems receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver. Features available in different 400 series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation capabilities.  In 2010, Garmin announced a new Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) as an option for the GNS 430W/530W series navigators.  When added to the GNS 430W/530W, helicopter pilots will receive graphical and
audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle conflicts along the flight path.


  
  


500W Series

  


(2 models)


These units combine the features of the 400W series along with a larger 5” color display.  The 530W Series comes standard with Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) capability and may be ordered with or upgraded to Class B Terrain Awareness and Warning System (TAWS-B) capability.


  
  


GTS™ TAS and

  


TCAS I Systems


The GTS 800 series of traffic avoidance products combines active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic threats. The systems use Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlates automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets. The GTS 800 TAS is a lower-cost system, offering 40 watts of transmit power and a range of up to 12 nautical miles. The GTS 820 TAS delivers 250 watts of transmit power and up to 40 nautical miles of interrogation range. The GTS 850 TCAS I satisfies all TCAS I collision avoidance criteria for higher-capability turboprops and jets.  It features the same 250 watt performance as the GTS 820, and
also meets the FAA’s TCAS I certification criteria






 



  



15







  



 







GI-102A & 106A


Course deviation indicators (CDIs). The GI-106A features an instrument landing system receiver to aid in landing.


  
  


GMA 240, 340 & 347


The GMA 340 is a feature-rich audio panel with six-place stereo intercom and independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities.  The GMA 347 has automatic squelch, digital clearance recorder, and a full-duplex telephone interface.  The GMA 340 and 347 are both TSO’d.  The GMA 240 is a versatile, non-TSO’d audio panel designed for experimental and light sport aircraft.


  
  


GTX™ 330 & 330D


FAA-certified Mode S transponders with data link capability, including local air traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS).  These transponders may also be optionally upgraded to provide 1090 MHz Extended Squitter (ES) transmission capabilities, which will increase situational awareness once the Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) system is fully implemented.












GTX 320A,327 & 328


FAA-certified transponders which transmit altitude or flight identification to air traffic control radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance devices and feature solid-state construction for longer life.  The GTX 327 offers a digital display with timing functions.  The 328 is designed exclusively for Europe and satisfies the European requirement for a Mode S solution that meets the reduced certification requirements for the VFR Mode S mandate.


  
  


GDL 90


The GDL 90 was the first airborne Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) product certified by the FAA to TSO C145A standards.  The GDL 90 allows pilots in the cockpit and air traffic controllers on the ground to “see” aircraft traffic with much more precision than has ever been possible before without the costly infrastructure of ground based tracking radar.  The GDL 90 relies on the infrastructure that is part of the FAA’s Safe Flight 21 program.  This program is currently under development with implementation of the ground-based portion of the ADS-B network taking place along the East Coast and other selected areas of the
U.S.A.  Additional installations of the ADS-B ground stations are planned.  The ground stations can track aircraft movement and eventually are expected to be used to broadcast traffic and weather services.  Pilots equipped with the GDL 90 and operating within the ground station coverage area will receive aircraft traffic and real-time weather information free of charge.


  
  


GSR 56


The GSR 56 is Garmin’s newest datalink product.  It provides pilots with access to on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required).  In addition to the many on-demand satellite weather features, the GSR 56 offers a worldwide tracking solution that continuously monitors an aircraft’s status enroute.  It can automatically provide GPS-referenced position reports at predetermined intervals so those on the ground can track a plane’s flight status and position.


  
  


GDL 69 and 69A


The GDL 69 offers the ability to provide real-time weather information to the aircraft which can be displayed on one of several panel-mounted devices, such as the GNS 430, GNS 530, MX20, and G1000 systems. The GDL 69 and GDL 69A receive real-time weather information broadcast by the XM WX Satellite radio system.  In addition, the GDL 69A expands the utility of the system by providing CD quality audio provided by XM Satellite Radio (separate subscriptions for weather data and audio required).


  
  


GMX 200™


A large (6.5 inch) sunlight-readable, high-resolution, multi-function display.


  
  


SL 30 and SL 40


The SL30 is a compact VHF navigation and communications unit that combines a 760-channel VHF communications radio with 200-channel glideslope and localizer receivers.  The SL40 is a 760-channel VHF communications radio only.  Both the SL30 and SL40 feature 10 watt communications transmitters.





 



 



16







 



 







GWX™ 68


The GWX 68 is an all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitter that brings real-time weather to Garmin’s newest multi-function displays.






 

Sales and Marketing





Garmin’s non-aviation products are sold through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors in approximately 100 countries who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customer’s purchases represented 10% or more of Garmin’s consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 25, 2010.  Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmin’s offices in Olathe, Kansas (North, South and Central America), in the U.K. (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa), France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Belgium, Norway, Netherlands,
Poland, Australia (also covering New Zealand), China and in Taiwan (Asia).  Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.


 

Garmin’s U.S. consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales managers and in-house sales associates. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors include:








  


·


Best Buy—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics retailers;











  


·


Amazon.com—internet retailer;











  


·


Costco—an international chain of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name merchandise;











  


·


Halford’s—a large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories;











  


·


Petra—a large distributor who sells to a wide range of dealers;











  


·


Target— one of the nation’s largest general merchandise retailers;











  


·


Wal-Mart—the world’s largest mass retailer; and











  


·


Wynit—a large distributor who sells to a wide range of dealers.







Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort.




Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation portable products are sold through select aviation distributors around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also through catalogs and pilot shops.  Garmin’s largest aviation distributors include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Sportsman’s Market, TGH Aviation, Sarasota Avionics and Elliott Aviation.  Avionics distributors have the training, equipment and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.

 



 



17







 



 

In addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).  In the consumer market, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or through tier 2 sourcing.  These OEMs include Chrysler, Toyota, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, Ford, BMW and BMW Motorrad, Honda, Mercedes Benz, Smart Car, Peugeot, Hyundai, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, Volvo, Bombardier, and Polaris.    In 2010, Chrysler introduced Garmin navigation on the 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee and also announced Garmin navigation on their new uConnect Touch system in partnership with Panasonic, which
will launch on select 2011 models.    In addition, Garmin continues to sell products and applications to Kenwood for bundling with Kenwood’s OEM products.  Garmin also has relationships with certain rental car companies including Dollar/Thrifty, Enterprise, Avis, Budget, National, Europcar, Alamo, and Hertz (Europe).  Garmin has also developed promotional relationships with certain automotive dealerships in certain countries including BMW, Southeast Toyota, Penske, Mazda, Saab and Ford.  Garmin’s products are also standard equipment on various models of boats manufactured by Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner Boats (a division of Brunswick Corporation), Bavaria Yacht, Broom Boats Ltd., Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats,
Inc.,  Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington Marine, LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline Boats, Ltd. and Regal Marine Industries, Inc. and are optional equipment on boats manufactured by Tiara Yachts, Inc.,  Grand Banks Yachts, Ltd., Luhrs Corp., Maritimo Offshore Pty Ltd., Mastercraft Boat Company, LLC, Yellowfin Yachts, LLC, Sea Ray Corporation, Scout Boats, Inc., The Hinckley Company, Hunt Yachts, Inc. and Zodiac Hurricane Technologies, Inc.  In the aviation market, Garmin’s avionics are either standard equipment or options on various models of aircraft built by Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, DAHER-SOCATA, Diamond Aircraft Industries, Inc., Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Hawker Beechcraft Aircraft Company, Piper
Aircraft, Inc.,  Quest Aircraft Company, and Robinson Helicopter Company.

 
Competition




The market for navigation, communications and information products is highly competitive.  Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability.  Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas.





Garmin believes that its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and  MiTAC Digital Corporation (“MiTAC”) (which distributes products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman) and Navigon AG. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor/fitness product lines are Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (“Lowrance”) and Delorme and that its principal competitors for fitness products are Nike, Inc., Polar Electro Oy, Suunto Oy, Timex Corp. and Bryton Corp.  For marine chartplotter products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Raymarine Inc.
(“Raymarine”), Furuno Electronic Company (“Furuno”), and Simrad and Lowrance (subsidiaries of Navico).  For Garmin’s fishfinder/depth sounder product lines, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Lowrance, Raymarine, the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., and Furuno. For Garmin’s general aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be Honeywell, Inc., Avidyne Corporation, L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc., Universal Avionics Systems Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, Aspen Avionics, and Free Flight Systems for panel-mount GPS and display units.  For Garmin’s Family Radio Service and General Mobile Radio Service product line, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Motorola, Inc., Cobra Electronics Corporation and Midland Radio
Corporation.


 

Research and Development




Garmin’s product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering and manufacturing teams.  Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 2,340 people worldwide as of December 25, 2010.  Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and cartographic
engineers.  Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.  Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition it into manufacturing.

 



 



18







 



 

Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures on research and development over the last three fiscal years.











  
 

December 25,

 
 

December 26,

 
 

December 27,

 

  
 

2010

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 


($'s in thousands)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


Research and development

 
$
277,261
 
 
$
238,378
 
 
$
206,109
 


Percent of net sales

 
 
10.3
%
 
 
8.1
%
 
 
5.9
%







 
Manufacturing and Operations




Garmin believes that one of its core competencies and strengths is its manufacturing capability at its Sijhih, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities, its Olathe, Kansas facility, and its Salem, Oregon facility.  Garmin believes that its vertically integrated approach has provided it the following benefits with respect to all products other than the legacy nüvifone products, which are manufactured by one or more third parties as part of the Garmin-Asus strategic alliance,  a few select marine products (VHF radios and AIS receivers), and our accessory products, all of which are also manufactured by one or more third parties.




Reduced time-to-market. Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmin’s products are introduced to production at an early development stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass production begins.  In this manner, Garmin attempts to reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries.




Design and process optimization.  Garmin uses its manufacturing resources to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in order to achieve higher efficiency, improved quality and yields, lower cost and better value for customers.  Garmin’s ability to fully explore product design and manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to minimize size and weight in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and rugged.




Logistical agility.   Operating our own manufacturing facilities helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages and long component lead times which are common in the electronics industry.  Many products can be re-engineered to bypass component shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can be delivered to market quickly.  Garmin reacts rapidly to changes in market demand by striving to maintain a safety stock of long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to another.   Operating our own manufacturing facilities also allows Garmin to quickly
adjust the mix of product production, helping to foster faster delivery response to the customer.




Garmin’s design, manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facilities have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers.  In addition, Garmin’s aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.




Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO14001 standard.  This certification recognizes that Garmin’s UK and Taiwan subsidiaries have systems and processes in place to minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.




Materials




Although most components essential to Garmin’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components, including, but not limited to, microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), and certain  application-specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”) are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and
commodity pricing fluctuations.




  



19







  






Garmin and other participants in the personal computer, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products.  In addition, Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new
technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased.  Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements for strategically important components.  Nevertheless, if  Garmin’s supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to Garmin, the Garmin’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Garmin’s business and financial performance could also be adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient
quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Garmin’s requirements




Seasonality




Our sales are subject to significant seasonal fluctuation.  Sales of our consumer products are generally significantly higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand for automotive/mobile products during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer marine season and the Father’s Day/graduation buying season.  Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products.  Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products when the
initial demand is typically the strongest.




Backlog




Our sales are generally of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment.  Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business.  We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.




Intellectual Property




Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology.  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography technology for use in our products from various sources.




As of January 21, 2010, Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 450 patents and 300 trademark registrations.  Garmin was selected as a constituent of the 2010/2011 Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index  which recognizes companies with high intellectual property value. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate.  Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in
its proprietary technologies.

 



  



20







  






There is no assurance that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.  Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights
of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.




Regulations




The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change.  In accordance with Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver and cellular handset products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold.  Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission.  A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely
affect our business.    In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft” are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft.




Because Garmin Corporation, one of the Company’s principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmin’s operations.  The Taiwan Foreign Exchange Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provide that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred to as the CBC.  Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from exports of merchandise
and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks.  Aside from trade-related foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year.  Currency conversions within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC.  The above limits apply to remittances involving a conversion between New Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies.  The CBC typically approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review
and presents legitimate business reasons justifying the currency conversion.  A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term foreign debt with the CBC.




Environmental Matters




Garmin’s operations are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Currently, we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.




Environmental regulation of Garmin’s products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products.  Compliance with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial.

 


Garmin has implemented multiple Environmental Management System (“EMS”) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards, and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility, Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.





  



21







  



 

Regulatory and “Green Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing, particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established.  Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.





Employees




As of December 25, 2010, Garmin had 8,897 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,470 were in the United States, 72 were in Canada, 4,419 were in Taiwan, 725 were in Europe, and 211 were in other global locations.   Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.




Item 1A.  Risk Factors




The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected.




Risks Related to the Company

 


The demand for personal navigation devices (PNDs) may be eroded by replacement technologies becoming available on mobile handsets and factory-installed systems in new autos.




                We have historically experienced substantial growth in the automotive/mobile segment which has resulted in GPS/navigation technologies being incorporated into competing devices such as mobile handsets and new automobiles through factory-installed systems.  Mobile handsets are frequently GPS-enabled and many companies are now offering navigation software for mobile devices.  The acceptance of this technology by consumers has halted our growth and could further reduce margins.  Navigation systems are also becoming more prevalent as optional equipment on new automobiles.  Increased
navigation penetration on new automobiles could cause further declines in sales of our portable navigation devices and further reduce margins.




Our financial results are highly dependent on the automotive/mobile segment, which represents approximately 62% of our revenues and is maturing.




                We have historically experienced substantial growth in the automotive/mobile segment of our business as the products have become mass-market consumer electronics in both Europe and North America.  This market has peaked as penetration rates increase and competing technologies emerge.  This has resulted in lower revenues and lower earnings per share.




Economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and margins.




Our revenue and margins depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete.  The current economic weakness and constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in decreased revenue and in the future, could result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailer and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse affect on our results of operations.


 



  



22







  






Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode.





Gross margins on our automotive/mobile products have been declining and are expected to decline in 2011 due to price reductions in the increasingly competitive market for personal navigation devices (PNDs) that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes.  In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that product’s life.  To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of
existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future.  To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.


 

Changes in our United States federal income tax classification or in applicable tax law could result in adverse tax consequences to our shareholders.




We do not believe that we (or any of our non-United States subsidiaries) are currently a ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’ for United States federal income tax purposes.  We do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company.  However, because the passive foreign investment company determination is made annually based on whether the company’s income or assets meet certain thresholds as determined under United States federal tax principles which are based on facts and circumstances that may be beyond our control, we cannot assure that we will not become a passive foreign investment company in the future.  If we are a passive foreign investment company in
any year, then any of our shareholders that is a United States person could be liable to pay tax on their pro rata share of our income plus an interest charge upon some distributions by us or when that shareholder sells our common shares at a gain.  Further, if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company in any year in which a United States person is a shareholder, we generally will continue to be treated as a passive foreign investment company with respect to such shareholder in all succeeding years, regardless of whether we continue to satisfy the income or asset tests mentioned above.

 

We do not believe that we (or any of our non-United States subsidiaries) are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) for United States federal income tax purposes.  We do not expect to become a CFC.  The CFC determination is made daily based on whether the United States shareholders own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company.  Only United States persons that own ten percent or more of the voting power of the Company’s shares qualify as United States shareholders.  If the Company were to be classified as a CFC for an uninterrupted thirty day period in any year, the Company’s shareholders that qualify as United States
shareholders could be liable to pay US income tax at ordinary income tax rates on their pro-rata share of certain categories of the Company’s income for the period in which the Company is classified as a CFC. As the Company cannot control the ownership of the Company’s stock nor can the Company control which shareholders participate in the Company’s stock buyback program, ownership changes could result that create United States shareholders which increase the risk of Garmin being treated as a CFC.


 

Legislative proposals have been considered in the United States within the past year that could increase the United States tax burden of corporations with international operations and could broaden the circumstances under which foreign corporations could be considered resident in the United States   Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in United States or foreign tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals.




  



23







  



 

If we are not successful in the continued development, introduction or timely manufacture of new products, demand for our products could decrease.




We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products.  The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs.  If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete.  We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such
products.  However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance.




If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected.  Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense.  We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change.  These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge.  Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no
assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products.  The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success.  From time to time we have experienced delays in shipping certain of our new products and any future delays, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.




If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share.




The markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do.  These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements.  They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products.  Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share.  Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations.




We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business.




Because we sell a majority of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products.  In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in their inventories.  If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted.




Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors.  If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors.  If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer.




  



24







  






Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality.




Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly.  If such operating results decline, the price of our stock would likely decline.  As we expand our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our advertising and research and development costs, may increase as a percentage of our sales.  If revenues decrease and we are unable to reduce those costs rapidly, our operating results would be negatively affected.




Historically, our revenues have been weaker in the first quarter of each fiscal year and have recently been lower than the preceding fourth quarter.  Our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in these quarters.  Sales of certain of our marine and automotive products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products during the recreational marine, fishing, and travel season.  Sales of our automotive/mobile products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices
during the holiday season. In addition, we attempt to time our new product releases to coincide with relatively higher consumer spending in the second and fourth fiscal quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations.




Our quarterly financial statements will reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation.





The operation of Garmin’s subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates.  We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. dollar.  The potential of volatile foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations.




The currencies that create a majority of the Company’s exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling.  Garmin Corporation, headquartered in Sijhih, Taiwan, uses the local currency as the functional currency.  The Company translates all assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during the year.  In order to minimize the effect of the currency exchange fluctuations on our net assets, we have elected to retain most of our Taiwan subsidiary’s cash and investments in marketable securities denominated in U.S. dollars.




Nonetheless, U.S. GAAP requires the Company at the end of each accounting period to translate into Taiwan Dollars all such U.S. Dollar denominated assets held by our Taiwan subsidiary.  This translation is required because the Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of the subsidiary.  This U.S. GAAP-mandated translation will cause us to recognize gain or loss on our financial statements as the Taiwan Dollar/U.S. Dollar exchange rate varies.  Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share.  Because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on
the Company’s operating performance before the impact of the foreign currency translation.




If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories.




We have generally been able to increase production to meet this increasing demand.  However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and will be difficult to forecast.  We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support multiple products, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products mature to the mass market category.  Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations:









 

·


If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand.









  



25







  











 

·


Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses.  These higher costs could lower our profit margins.  Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction.














 

·


If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess production resulting in higher inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories.  Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins.









We have benefited in the past from Taiwan government tax incentives offered on certain high technology capital investments that may not always be available.





Our effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, in part because we have benefited from incentives offered in Taiwan related to our high technology investments in Taiwan.  The loss of these tax benefits could have a significant effect on our financial results in the future.


 

We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan.




Relations between Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan in the future could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares.  Our principal manufacturing facilities where we manufacture all of our products, except our panel-mounted aviation products, are located in Taiwan.




Taiwan has a unique international political status.  The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands and all of mainland China.  The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government.  Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan.  Relations between Taiwan and the PRC have on occasion adversely affected the market value of Taiwanese companies and could negatively affect
our operations in Taiwan in the future.




Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon other’s rights or are infringed upon by others.




We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights.  To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks.  However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks.  Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of
reasons.   Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.




Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights.  Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.  From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights.  Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming.  We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms.  We might not have sufficient resources to pay for the licenses.  Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities
and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products.




  



26







  






We may become subject to significant product liability costs.




If our aviation products malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane collisions or crashes could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death.  Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products could cause boats to run aground or cause other wreckage, personal injury or death.  If our automotive or marine products contain defects or errors in the mapping supplied by third-party map providers or if our users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death.  If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability for
personal injury and property damage and under certain circumstances could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages.  We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products.  However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates.  In addition, insurance coverage generally will not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins.  If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole source for specific components, and our production would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise.




We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products.  Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors.  The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products.  Some components we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are manufactured for us by sole source suppliers.  Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source
components.




In the past we have experienced shortages of liquid crystal displays and other components.  In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components, the costs of such components may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, or if the costs of components rise, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed.




We depend on third party licensors for the digital map data contained in our automotive/mobile products, and our business and/or gross margins could be harmed if we become unable to continue licensing such mapping data or if the royalty costs for such data rise.




We license digital mapping data for use in our products from various sources.  There are only a limited number of suppliers of mapping data for each geographical region.  The two largest digital map suppliers are NAVTEQ Corporation and Tele Atlas N.V.  NAVTEQ Corporation is owned by Nokia Oyj and Tele Atlas N.V. is owned by TomTom N.V.  Nokia and TomTom are both competitors of Garmin.





 Although we do not foresee difficulty in continuing to license data at favorable pricing due to the long term license extension signed between Garmin and NAVTEQ in November 2007 (extending our NAVTEQ license agreement through 2017 with an option to extend through 2021), if we are unable to continue licensing such mapping data and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the nature of our relationships with NAVTEQ changes detrimentally, our ability to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed.


 



  



27







  






We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, complete and integrate such transactions.




We intend to evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise.  We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all.




Any past or future acquisitions could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees (including cultural differences with foreign acquisitions), operations, and products and diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities.  Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us.  We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters, operations, personnel or products related to
acquisitions we have made in previous years  or may make in the future.  If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed.




We may have additional tax liabilities.  




We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for
which that determination is made.




Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis could harm our business.




We have certain products, especially in our aviation segment, that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold.  For example, FAA certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type certificated aircraft.  To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources.  An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers’ ability to sell airplanes.  Therefore, such
inabilities or delays could adversely affect our operating results.  In addition, we cannot assure you that our certified products will not be decertified.  Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results.




Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel.




Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel.  We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers.  We do not have key man life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance.  The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business.  Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult.  For example, in some recent years there has been a
nationwide shortage of qualified electrical engineers and software engineers who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore, it has sometimes been challenging to recruit such personnel.  If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to maintain and expand our business.




  



28







  






There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan.




We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan.  As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us.  In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.




A shut down of U.S. airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business.




Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the FAA ordered all aircraft operating in the U.S. to be grounded for several days.  In addition to this shut down of U.S. airspace, the general aviation industry was further impacted by the additional restrictions implemented by the FAA on those flights that fly utilizing Visual Flight Rules (VFR).  The FAA restricted VFR flight inside 30 enhanced Class B (a 20-25 mile radius around the 30 largest metropolitan areas in the USA) airspace areas.  The Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA) estimated that these restrictions affected approximately 41,800 general aviation aircraft
based at 282 airports inside the 30 enhanced Class B airspace areas.  The AOPA estimates that approximately 90% of all general aviation flights are conducted VFR, and that only 15% of general aviation pilots are current to fly utilizing Instrument Flight Rules (IFR).




The shutdown of U.S. airspace following September 11, 2001 caused reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facility to our distribution facility in Olathe, Kansas, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors.




Any future shut down of U.S. airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.




Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System.




The Global Positioning System is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites.  The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense.  The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals.  These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate.  However,
of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 12 years.




If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, unavailable or are not replaced, it would impair the current utility of our Global Positioning System products and would have a material negative effect on our business.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the U.S. government will remain committed to the operation and maintenance of Global Positioning System satellites over a long period, or that the policies of the U.S. government that provide for the use of the Global Positioning System without charge and without accuracy degradation will remain unchanged.  Because of the increasing commercial applications of the Global Positioning System, other U.S. government
agencies may become involved in the administration or the regulation of the use of Global Positioning System signals.    However, in a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004, the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. is committed to supporting and improving the Global Positioning System and will continue providing it free from direct user fees.




Some of our products also use signals from systems that augment GPS, such as the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS).  WAAS is operated by the FAA. Any curtailment of the operating capability of WAAS could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets.

 



 



29







 




 

Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products based on competing technologies.

 


Any reallocation or repurposing of radio frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference could harm our business.




Our Global Positioning System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Government’s Global Positioning System satellites.  The Global Positioning System operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services.  International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference.  Each country also
has regulatory authority on how each band is used.  In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations.




Any ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. For example, the FCC is currently considering a proposal by a private party, LightSquared, to repurpose spectrum adjacent to the GPS bands for terrestrial broadband wireless operations in metropolitan areas throughout the United States.  If the FCC were to permit implementation of LightSquared’s proposal as is, terrestrial broadband wireless operations would
create harmful interference to GPS receivers within range of such operations.    




Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by war or terrorism.




Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.




We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change.

 

Climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide.  Some scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions.

 

There are a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in June 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act that would phase-in significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions if enacted into law. The U.S. Senate is considering one or more different bills, and it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. Similarly, certain countries have adopted the Kyoto Protocol. These actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for components used in the manufacture of our products and freight
costs.




Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


  



 



30







 



 

Risks Relating to Our Shares

 

The volatility of our stock price could adversely affect investment in our common shares.




The market price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile.  During 2010, the price of our common shares ranged from a low of $26.55 to a high of $39.94. A variety of factors could cause the price of our common shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including:

 





  


·


announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete;








  


·


quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results;








  


·


the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our  products;








  


·


general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates;








  


·


announcements of technological innovations;








  


·


new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;








  


·


product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions;








  


·


developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation;








  


·


developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers;








  


·


research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; and








  


·


any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products.







In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.  Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.


 

Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us.




As of January 14, 2011, members and former members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with members of their families and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 44.80% of our outstanding common shares.  Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions.  This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares.




On June 27, 2010 we completed the redomestication of the place of our incorporation from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).  As a result of increased shareholder approval requirements under Swiss law, we have less flexibility than we previously had as a Cayman Islands company with respect to certain aspects of capital management.




Swiss law allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders’ meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without approval of a shareholders’ meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed by a shareholders’ meeting every two years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law does not provide as much flexibility as Cayman Islands law in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares
either. For example, while the board of directors of a Cayman Islands company can authorize the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval, we will not be able to issue preferred stock without the approval of 66 2/3% of the votes represented and a majority of the par value of the shares represented at a general meeting of our shareholders. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions over which our board of directors previously had authority under Cayman Islands law. For example, dividends must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of our shareholders.




  



31







  



 

The par value of our shares is higher following the Redomestication.  As a result, we have less flexibility than we previously had as a Cayman Islands company with respect to certain aspects of capital management.




The par value of our shares is 10 Swiss francs per share, compared to a par value of $0.005 per share when we were a Cayman Islands company.  Under Swiss law, we may not issue shares below par value. In the event we need to raise equity capital at a time when the trading price of our shares is below the par value of the shares, we will be unable to issue shares. In addition, we will not be able to issue options under our benefits plans with an exercise price below the par value, which would limit the flexibility of our compensation arrangements.




We are subject to various Swiss taxes following the Redomestication.




Although we do not expect Swiss taxes to materially affect our worldwide effective corporate tax rate, we are subject to additional corporate taxes in Switzerland following the Redomestication. Switzerland imposes a corporate federal income tax for holding companies at an effective tax rate of 7.83%, although we should be entitled to a “participation relief” that in most cases will effectively eliminate any Swiss taxation on the profits of our subsidiaries paid by them to us as dividends as well as on capital gains related to the sale of participations. We also are subject to a Swiss issuance stamp tax levied on our share issuances, other than in connection with qualifying restructurings, or increases
of our equity at a rate of 1% of the fair market value of the issuance or increase. In addition, we are subject to some other Swiss indirect taxes (e.g., VAT, Swiss issuance stamp tax on certain debt instruments and Swiss securities transfer stamp tax).

 

We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax.




If we are unable to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or to pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying
corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available for us to use for par value reductions will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or to pay a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes.





Under Swiss tax law applicable until December 31, 2010, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction have been treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. On January 1, 2011, under Swiss laws the portion of the repurchase price that is attributed to the qualifying capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding tax. We may follow a share repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a "second trading line" on the Swiss Stock Exchange in which Swiss institutional investors buy shares on the open market and sell these shares
to us and are generally able to receive a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes.


 



  



32







  






Item 1B