Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Readers are strongly encouraged to consider
those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. The Company does not undertake to update any
forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments.

 

Part I

 

Item
1.	Business

 

This discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should
be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in
such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin has identified five reportable segments
for external reporting purposes: Auto, Aviation, Marine, Outdoor and Fitness. There are two operating segments (Auto PND and Auto
OEM) that are not reported separately but are aggregated within the Auto reportable segment. Each operating segment is individually
reviewed and evaluated by our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment
individually. The segment and geographic information included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”
under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1.

 

Garmin was incorporated
in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin
Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate
a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company
of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation
of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).
Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common
share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (CHF)
per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.

 

Garmin’s annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by
Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material
is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains
an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding
issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

 



     3 
     
    

 

The reference to Garmin’s
website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information
should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K.

 

Company Overview 

 

For over 25 years,
Garmin Ltd. and subsidiaries (together, the “Company”) has pioneered new Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation
and wireless devices and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin serves five primary business
units, including auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures, markets and distributes
a diverse family of hand-held, wearable, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications, sensor-based
and information products. Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 157 million products, which includes the
delivery of more than 16 million products during 2015.

 

Overview of the Global Positioning System 

 

The Global Positioning
System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite
technology. The system consists of numerous constellations of orbiting satellites. Access to the systems is provided free of charge.

 

Garmin utilizes a variety
of global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) including, but not limited to:


·The satellites and their ground control
and monitoring stations maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite
replenishment program to ensure continuous global system coverage. 


·Japan’s MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation
System (MSAS) which achieved initial operating capability for enroute, terminal and approach navigation for aviation on September
27, 2007.


·The European Geostationary Navigation
Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service which achieved initial operating capability for enroute, terminal,
and approach navigation on March 2, 2011.


·The Global Navigation Satellite System
(GLONASS), a space-based satellite navigation system operated by the Russian Federation, consisting of 24 satellites and providing
world-wide coverage. In certain urban canyon or restricted sky visibility situations, the use of both GPS and GLONASS satellites
to produce a navigation fix may result in improved accuracy.

 

The accuracy and utility
of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) comprising
ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United States
and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal
and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of
WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications.

 

Products 

 

Garmin offers a broad range of solutions
across its reportable segments as outlined below. In general, Garmin believes that its products are known for their value,
high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. 

 

Auto

 

Garmin offers a broad range of auto navigation
products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market.  Garmin currently offers to
consumers around the world:

 



     4 
     
    

 

Personal
Navigation Devices (PND) – 

  

PNDs combine a full-featured GPS
navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmin’s uniquely simple user interface.  PNDs are sold under the nüvi®,
zūmo®, dēzl™, RV and fleet product lines.  The zūmo series offers motorcycle-specific features.
RV series offers features specific to the RV enthusiast. The dēzl series offers over-the-road trucking features while the
fleet series delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch fleet system.  Across the expansive product portfolio, Garmin offers
features such as large screens, integrated traffic receivers for traffic avoidance (including some models with lifetime traffic
updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names, voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist with
PhotoReal junction views - thousands of high quality photos of actual upcoming junctions, Bluetooth hands-free capability,
DashCams/Passenger Cams, driver awareness alerts, and backup cameras.  In fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, the nüvi
class of products represented approximately 22%, 27%, and 34% of Garmin’s total consolidated revenues, respectively.



 

Infotainment
Solutions – 

 

In addition to PNDs, Garmin has
many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) providing infotainment solutions ranging from portable solutions
utilizing an integrated mount within the vehicle to software navigation solutions to fully embedded systems offering a broad range
of functionality.

 

Mobile
Applications – 

 

Garmin offers mobile applications
under the StreetPilot® and NAVIGON® product names.  The applications are offered across a broad range of smartphones
and tablets including iOS, Android and Windows enabled devices.  These applications provide users turn-by-turn, voice-prompted
directions and other advanced Garmin navigation features.

 

Outdoor

 

Garmin
offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities. Garmin currently
offers to consumers around the world:

 

Outdoor
Handhelds – 

 

Outdoor handhelds range from basic waypoints navigation capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices
offering barometric altimeter, 3-axis compass, camera, microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps, Bluetooth for smartphone
connectivity, and other features. Outdoor handhelds are sold under the Oregon®, Rino®, Montana®, Monterra®, eTrex®,
and GPSMAP® product lines. Each series of products is designed to serve various price points and niche activity categories.
The Rino series of handhelds additionally offers two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) that
integrate two-way voice communications. The Monterra is Garmin’s
first Wi-Fi enabled, Android-based outdoor handheld GPS.

  

Wearable
Devices – 

 

Garmin offers GPS ruggedized smartwatches for outdoor activity. The fēnix®
3 provides advanced multisport features for hiking, climbing, skiing, running, cycling, and swimming. The epix®
provides advanced multisport features, comprehensive mapping, navigation and tracking functionalities, as well as trip information,
such as heading, elevation and weather changes. The tactix® adds additional features inspired
by the requirements of law enforcement and police special operations.

  



     5 
     
    

 

Golf
Devices – 

 

The Approach® series of golf-focused devices includes both handhelds and wrist-worn products with
over 40,000 preloaded worldwide golf courses. The offerings range from basic display of yardages to the front, back and middle
of greens to advanced, touchscreen devices providing measurement of individual shot distances and display of the slope-adjusted
yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A statistic-tracking feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics through
Garmin Connect™. Some devices include swing metrics, which gives audible tones to fine-tune swing tempo, an internal compass
which provides directional assistance to the pin on blind shots, manual pin positioning, which allows users to tap and drag the
flag on the green for precise yardage to the flag, and the ability to display emails, text messages and alerts.

 

Dog Tracking
and Training/Pet Obedience Devices – 

 

Garmin offers a series of dog-focused
products providing a range of functionality including GPS-enabled dog tracking, electronic dog training, and electronic bark correction.
The products are offered under the Astro®, Alpha®, PRO, Sport PRO™,
BarkLimiter™ and Delta® product lines. The Astro series can pinpoint multiple dogs’ positions at one time through
all-weather collars and a handheld system, which features many of our outdoor capabilities including: barometric altimeter, electronic
compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior. Alpha combines the tracking capabilities of Astro with electronic
dog training.  The BarkLimiter is an intuitive electronic bark correction device. The Delta and PRO
series of training collars offers a remote training device with integrated bark limiting capability for consumer and professional
dog training markets.  

 

Action
Cameras – 

 

Garmin offers VIRB® X and VIRB® XE action cameras with digital image stabilization, lens distortion
correction, and the ability to take high quality still photographs while the video camera is recording. VIRB X and VIRB XE offer
built-in Wi-Fi, data sensors and a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to add speed, elevation, G-force, heart rate, and other data onto
video through our VIRB Edit application. A SATM waterproof case allows images to be captured above and below the water without
the need for additional hardware.

 

Fitness

 

Garmin
offers a broad range of products designed for use in fitness and activity tracking. Garmin
currently offers to consumers around the world:

 

Running/Multi-Sport Watches –


 

The Forerunner® series offers compact, lightweight training watches for athletes with integrated GPS
sensor that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function and heart-rate
based calorie computation. In 2015, Garmin added the Forerunner 235 with Garmin Elevate™,
providing a wrist-based heart rate monitoring solution designed by Garmin. All models allow runners to upload their data to Garmin
Connect™, where they can store, analyze and share their workout data. Additional advanced
features include: Virtual Racer™, which allows runners to race against their previous best times, recovery advisor, race
predictor and VO2 max estimate. The Forerunner 9x0XT series is designed specifically for triathletes. These all-in-one GPS-enabled
devices provide detailed swim metrics and track distance, speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling.

 



     6 
     
    

 

Cycling
Computers – 

 

The Edge® series measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, and altitude
offering an integrated personal training system designed for cyclists. In addition, Garmin offers devices geared toward performance-driven
cyclists offering real-time connectivity through a smartphone, providing live tracking, social media sharing and real-time weather
updates.

 

Cycling
Power Meter –

 

Garmin offers Vector™,
which is a high-precision pedal-based power meter designed specifically for cyclists. It provides power data to ANT+® compatible
devices. Some models also measure and present right and left leg power balance.

 



Cycling
Safety and Awareness –





 

Garmin offers the Varia™
product line focused on cycling safety and awareness. Varia bike radar alerts cyclists when vehicles are approaching from behind
and Varia bike lights make the cyclist more visible when out on the road. Varia Vision™
is a heads up display that makes data available to the cyclist in their line of sight, so they don’t need to always look
down at their Edge product while they are moving.

 

Activity
Tracking Devices – 

 

Garmin offers numerous devices to address the growing activity tracking market. The vívofit®
fitness bands provide a personalized daily goal, track progress and remind users when it’s time
to move. The devices feature a curved display that show steps, goal countdown, calories, distance, time of day and heart rate when
paired with a monitor. The vívosmart® and vívosmart® HR bands provide the same functions as the vívofit
but also include smart notifications and a vibration alert. The vívosmart HR also incorporates Garmin Elevate. vívoactive®
is a smartwatch focused on the active lifestyle consumer with all the basic activity tracking features along with applications
designed for running, cycling and swimming and includes connectivity to the Connect IQ™ application store for further customizations
and capabilities.

 

Garmin
Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile –

 

Garmin
Connect™ and Garmin Connect™
Mobile are web and mobile platforms where users
can track and analyze their fitness and wellness data. In addition, users can share their accomplishments, create training groups,
and get feedback and encouragement from the Connect community.

 



     7 
     
    

 

Marine


 

Garmin offers a broad
range of products designed for use in the recreational marine industry. Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world:

 

Chartplotters
and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs) –

 

Garmin
offers numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP® and echoMAP™ product lines. The offerings range from 4-inch portable
and fix-mounted products to 19-inch fully-integrated Glass Helm offerings. Cartography options range from US coastal and inland
lake mapping to worldwide basemaps to highly detailed BlueChart® g2 Visio® to LakeVü
HD Ultra charts offering auto-guidance, 3-D chart views and aerial reference photos. BlueChart g2 Visio and LakeVü HD Ultra
include Garmin’s most detailed lake cartography created based on surveys by Garmin’s fleet of high tech boats.
Additional advanced features and connectivity available include smartphone applications that wirelessly send weather data to your
plotter and remotely access your helm electronics. Additionally, some models have the CHIRP sonar function fully integrated to
reduce system cost.  Our chartplotters
also support “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors and Garmin accessories with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network
connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, SiriusXM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other
components). 

 

Fishfinders
– 

 

Garmin offers a new advanced line of fishfinders, the Striker™ series, which incorporate GPS technology.
These fishfinders are available in screen sizes from 4 to 7 inches and are paired with our latest technology sonar transducers
to provide the clearest sonar pictures on the water. DownVü
sonar is offered on the 4-, 5- and 7-inch models which provides high resolution images of what is below the boat. The 7-inch model
also offers a SideVü option which provides similar high resolution images but reaches much further out on either side of the
boat making the search for fish more efficient. The GPS technology enables anglers to mark their best fishing spots and then easily
return to them next weekend, next month, or next year. An additional bonus with GPS on board is that Striker can provide very accurate
speed data which boaters will enjoy. 

 

Sounders
– 

 

Garmin offers “black-box” sounders and “smart transducers” which interface with
Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package. The
black boxes provide CHIRP, DownVü, and SideVü
sonar similar to our integrated sonar plotters, but can be mounted in a more convenient location away from the helm. Additionally,
we offer up to 3kW transmit power with our black box line-up which will reach deeper depths for ocean use. Our newest smart transducer
line is Panoptix™. It uses new technology to provide detailed images that can be seen
real-time (LiveVü). Panoptix also offers 3D sonar views to give a good perspective of the landscape underneath the water.
The RealVü 3D and 3D historical views are available in thru-hull and transom mount versions of our Panoptix DownVü product.
Another feature of Panoptix is the LiveVü and RealVü 3D real-time presentation of what is out in front of your vessel.

 

Autopilot Systems –

 

Garmin offers full-featured marine
autopilot systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features as: Garmin’s patented Shadow
Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control,
and integration with the Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire autopilot capabilities
for various steering systems.

 



     8 
     
    

 

Radar
–

Garmin offers both radomes and
open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter. When paired with our newer MFDs, the
radars support dual-range mode so users can operate the radar in two ranges independently. The Garmin radar solutions range from
18 inches to 6 feet antennas and from 4kW up to 25kW with a maximum range of 96 nautical miles.

 

Instruments
– 

 

Garmin
offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument displays that show data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Mariners
can display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level,
wind direction and more, depending upon the specific sensors connected. Garmin instruments range from 4 to 7 inches and include
10-inch mast mounted displays for maximum visibility around the vessel.

 

VHF
Communication Radios –

 

Garmin
provides marine radios with differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners. The entry-level
radio is NMEA 0183 compatible, while the premium radio is designed for 35+ foot boats, is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible,
offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time. 

 

Handhelds
and Wrist-worn Devices – 

 

Garmin offers a marine-friendly
GPS handheld featuring a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded
cartography for the coastal United States. Also offered for mariners is the quatix®,
Garmin’s first GPS watch designed for mariners, combining marine features and navigation and sailing capabilities while
integrating Garmin’s GPS technology and interface.

 

Sailing
–

 

Garmin has integrated
many basic and advanced sailing features into our MFD and instrument systems. These features include enhanced wind rose, pre-race
guidance, synchronized race timer, virtual starting line, time to burn and lay line data fields.

 

Entertainment
– 

 

Garmin’s entertainment brand, Fusion®,
consists of marine audio head units, speakers and amplifiers. These products are designed specifically for the marine environment
and support many connectivity options for integrating with MFDs and smartphones on your boat for the best user experience on the
market. 

 

Aviation

 

Garmin’s aviation
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems,
terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, weather radar, surveillance products, audio
panels, cockpit datalink systems and more. The list below includes a sampling of some of the aviation capabilities currently offered
by Garmin:

 



     9 
     
    

 

Integrated
Avionics Systems/Flight Decks – 

 

Garmin offers a range of integrated glass avionics from the G3X™ for the experimental and light-sport
aircraft market to the G5000® for business jet, military and commercial applications. Basic capabilities integrated include:
navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution color
displays. More advanced features include: Garmin’s 3-D synthetic vision technology (SVT™), weather, Garmin’s
electronic stability and protection system (ESP™), electronic flight charts and touchscreen controls, which utilize patent
pending infrared touchscreen technology, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is
responding to their input.

 

Garmin offers similar integrated glass avionics for the helicopter market through the G500H, G1000H®
and G5000H®. Basic and advanced capabilities are
similar to those offered to the aircraft market. The helicopter offerings have been optimized for rotorcraft and offer features
like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and nearly 30,000
additional low-altitude obstacles, SiriusXM Satellite Weather with NEXRAD, and the ability to display video from a forward looking
infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources. 

 

Garmin also offers all-glass integrated avionics to the retrofit market through the G500, G600, G950®,
G1000® and G5000®. These solutions provide electronic flight displays that work with separate Garmin avionics to provide
essential information such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain
and traffic. In addition, upgraded systems also allow for the display and control of such data as altitude preselects and vertical
speed, DME distance, analog radar altitude, and analog navigation data.

 

Panel-mount
aviation products –

 

GPS/Navigation/Communication
Solutions – 

 

Garmin provides certified GPS navigation receivers, traditional VHF navigation receivers, instrument landing
systems receivers and VHF communication transmitters/receivers. Features available in different GNC®, GTR™, GNS™
and GTN™ series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation capabilities, touchscreen
operation, graphical flight planning with Victor high-altitude and RNAV airways, remote transponder, remote audio control, SafeTaxi®
and electronic chart capabilities. Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS)
is an option providing graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle conflicts along the flight path. 

 

Traffic Solutions –

 

Garmin offers traffic avoidance
products combining active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic threats. These
capabilities are part of our GTS™ series of systems. The systems use Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology
and correlate automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets. The offerings
include solutions for the range of light through transport category aircraft and helicopters. 

 



     10 
     
    

 

Audio Solutions – 

 

The GMA™ series are audio panels ranging from offerings with basic capabilities for the recreational
pilot to advanced capabilities including voice
recognition, 3D spatial audio processing, advanced auto squelch, ambient noise based volume adjustment and
independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities. 

 

Transponder Solutions – 

 

Garmin provides a range of transponder
solutions in the GTX™ series. The FAA-certified transponders transmit surveillance parameters to air traffic control radar
systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance devices. Newer transponders offer data link capability, including local
air traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS) and ADS-B compliance for the Next Generation
airspace system, via transmission of traffic surveillance data such as aircraft flight ID, position, altitude, velocity, climb/descent,
and heading information. Garmin offers solutions for the range of light through transport aircraft and helicopters.

 

UAT-Based ADS-B Solutions –


 

Garmin offers a range of FAA certified
UAT-based ADS-B products within the GDL® series. Configurations include products with and without mandate meeting internal
WAAS receivers and configurations which offer diversity (dual) antenna transmit/receive capability. The range of capabilities
across this line include the base ADS-B out transmit function, plus ADS-B in receive for FIS-B weather, TIS-B uplink and multilink
(1090MHz and 978MHz) air-to-air reception. Furthermore some of these products provide traffic correlation with other onboard traffic
systems such as TCAS to provide a single hybrid traffic feed to the display devices.

 

Weather Solutions – 

 

Weather capabilities are delivered within our GDL®, GSR™ and GWX™ series. The solutions
range from offering SiriusXM satellite data link weather information (subscription required) to the aircraft via display devices
from Garmin and tablets to on-demand global weather information,
text/voice communications and position tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). Available in the
GWX™ series is real-time airborne weather radar including magnetron-based and solid state weather radar solutions. Solid
state products include additional features such as Doppler-enhanced ground-clutter suppression and turbulence detection.

 

Portable
and Wearable Solutions – 

 

Garmin offers the aera® series and GPSMAP® 695/696 as portable avionics solutions. The aera series
combines an aviation portable with a full-featured automotive
GPS. These touchscreen products come with a complement of aviation databases including navigation, SafeTaxi®, FliteCharts®,
airport directory and terrain/obstacles for heightened situational awareness. Advanced features include: a digital document viewer,
a scratch pad, pre-loaded geo-referenced charts, and SiriusXM radio and weather (subscription required). The aera 79x and GPSMAP
69x series offers detailed electronic charts, airways and IFR map mode. Complementing the portable display products and the Garmin
Pilot™ tablet application is the GDL® 39 which provides a remote GPS receiver plus ADS-B in information for traffic and
weather. Garmin announced D2™ Bravo in July 2015, which is a premium watch designed specifically for aviators.

 



     11 
     
    

 

Mobile
Application – 

 

Garmin Pilot™ is a premium
flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on iOS and Android-based mobile devices. It
provides access to comprehensive global weather data, as available per region, that generally includes radar, weather report (METARS),
forecasts (TAFs), weather alerts (AIRMETS/SIGMETS), pilot reports, satellite imagery (visible and IR), winds and temperature aloft,
lightning data, and notices to airmen (NOTAM).

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

Garmin’s non-aviation
products are sold in approximately 100 countries through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors,
who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customer’s purchases represented 10% or more of Garmin’s
consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 26, 2015. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmin’s
offices around the world. Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence
while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.

	 

Garmin’s
U.S. consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional
sales managers and in-house sales associates. Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product
sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s
in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible
for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles
the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors
include:

 


·Amazon.com—internet retailer;


·Best Buy—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics
retailers;





·Halfords—a
                                         large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories; and


·Wal-Mart—the world’s largest mass retailer

 

Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation
portable products are sold through select aviation dealers around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also
through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmin’s largest aviation dealers include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Elliott
Aviation, Gulf Coast Avionics Corp., Sarasota Avionics, and Sportsman’s Market. Avionics dealers have the training, equipment
and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.

 

In addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original
equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In the auto segment, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs,
either directly or through tier 2 sourcing. Some of Garmin’s larger OEM relationships include BMW Motorrad, Bombardier, Chrysler,
Harley-Davidson, Honda, Mercedes Benz, Polaris, Suzuki and Volkswagen. In
the marine segment, Garmin’s products are standard equipment on various models of boats. Some of the larger OEM relationships
include Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner Boats (a division of Brunswick Corporation), Bavaria
Yacht, Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington Marine, LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt
Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline Boats, Ltd., Inha Works Ltd. and Regal Marine
Industries, Inc. In the aviation market, Garmin’s avionics are either standard equipment or options on various models of
aircraft. Some of the larger OEM relationships include AgustaWestland, Bombardier, Bell Helicopter-A Textron Company, Textron Aviation,
Cirrus Aircraft, Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Beechcraft Corporation, Pilatus Aircraft Ltd, Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest
Aircraft Company, and Robinson Helicopter Company.  

 



     12 
     
    

 

Competition 

 

In general, we operate
in highly competitive markets though competitive conditions do vary among our diverse products and geographies.  Garmin believes
the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer
service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability.  Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these
areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets.

 

Garmin believes that
its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (MiTAC) (which distributes
products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for infotainment solutions
are Harman International Industries, Panasonic Corporation, and the Mitsubishi Group. Garmin believes that its principal competitors
for outdoor product lines are Bushnell, DeLorme, Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, SportDOG Brand and Suunto Oy. For mobile products
Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Google Inc., Apple Inc. and Telenav Inc. Garmin believes that its principal
competitors for fitness products are Apple Inc., Bryton Corp., Fitbit Inc., AliphCom dba Jawbone, Polar Electro Oy, Sigma Sports,
Suunto Oy and Timex Corp. For marine products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Furuno Electronic Company, the
Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., Navico and Flir Systems, Inc. For Garmin’s aviation product lines, Garmin
considers its principal competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, CMC Electronics, Free Flight
Systems, Genesys Aerosystems, Honeywell, Inc., Innovative Solutions and Support Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins, Inc.,
Sagem SA and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation.

 

Research and Development

 

Garmin’s product
innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering
and manufacturing teams. Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 3,412 people
worldwide as of December 26, 2015. Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely
with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and
cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.
Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition
it into manufacturing.

 

Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures
on research and development over the last three fiscal years. 

 



      
    December 26,  
    December 27,  
    December 28, 

    ($'s in thousands) 
    2015  
    2014  
    2013 

    Research and development 
     427,043  
     395,121  
     364,923 

    Percent of net sales 
     15.1% 
     13.8% 
     13.9%


 

Manufacturing and Operations 

 

Garmin believes one
of its core competencies and strengths is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its Taiwan facilities in Xizhi,
Jhongli and LinKou, its China facility in Yangzhou, and at its U.S. facilities in Olathe, Kansas and Salem, Oregon. Garmin believes
that its ownership and operation of its own manufacturing facilities and distribution networks provides significant capability
and flexibility to address the breadth and depth of resources necessary to serve its diverse products and markets.

 

Specifically, Garmin
believes that its vertical integration of its manufacturing capabilities provides advantages to product cost, quality and time
to market.

 



     13 
     
    

 

Cost: Garmin’s
manufacturing resources rapidly and iteratively prototype designs, concepts, products and processes, achieving higher efficiency,
resulting in lower cost. Garmin’s vertical integration approach enables leveraging our manufacturing resources across high,
mid and low volume products. Sharing of these resources across our product lines favorably affects Garmin’s costs to produce
its range of products, with lower volume products realizing the economies of scale of the high volume products. The ownership and
integration of our resources allows Garmin to optimize the design for manufacturing of our products, yielding improved cost.

 

Quality: Garmin’s
automation and sophisticated production processes provide in-service robustness and consistent reliability standards that enables
Garmin to maintain strict process and quality control of the products manufactured, thereby improving the overall quality of our
products. Additionally, the immediate feedback throughout the manufacturing processes is provided to the development teams providing
integrated continuous improvement throughout design and supply chain.

 

Time to Market:
Garmin uses multi-disciplinary teams of design engineers, process engineers, and supply chain specialists to develop products,
allowing them to quickly move from concept to manufacturing. This integrated ownership provides inherent flexibility to enable
faster time to market.

 

Garmin’s design,
manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in its U.S., Taiwan, China and U.K. facilities are certified to ISO 9001,
an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations
in Taiwan and Olathe have achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. Garmin’s new China
facility in Yangzhou has received a TS16949 letter of conformance and expects to be formally certified in fourth quarter 2016.
Garmin’s Olathe and Salem aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation
industry.

 

Garmin International,
Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd. and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to
the ISO 14001 standard, recognizing Garmin’s systems and processes which minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment
and continually strive to improve its environmental performance.

 

Materials

 

Although most components
essential to Garmin’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained
by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components
that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM),
GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.

 

Garmin and other participants
in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries also compete for
various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition, Garmin uses some
custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication and consumer electronics
industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until Garmin
has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new
technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has
increased. Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements for strategically important
components. Nevertheless, if Garmin’s supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product was delayed
or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed
shipments of completed products to Garmin, Garmin’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely
affected. Garmin’s business and financial performance could also be adversely affected depending on the time required to
obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source.
Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate
on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet Garmin’s requirements.

 



     14 
     
    

 

Seasonality

 

Our sales are subject
to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during
the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season
and the Mother’s Day/Father’s Day/graduation buying season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing
of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the
timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest.

 

Backlog

 

Our sales are generally
of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.

 

Intellectual Property 

 

Our success and ability
to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often
relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography
technology for use in our products from various sources.

 

As of January 7, 2016, Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 950 patent and 640 trademark
registrations issued worldwide.  Generally, patents issued in the United States are effective for 20 years from the earliest
asserted filing date of the patent application. The duration of foreign patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable
local law. For the past eight years Garmin has been selected as a constituent of the Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index which recognizes
companies with high intellectual property value. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our
employees and their ability to continue to innovate.  Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when
appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in its proprietary technologies.

 

There is no assurance
that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part.
It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others
will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity
and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.

 

Regulations 

 

The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates
is subject to change. In accordance with the United States’ Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations,
wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they
are sold. Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A
delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification
for Garmin’s existing products could adversely affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for
installation in “type certificated aircraft” are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the
European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft.

 



     15 
     
    

 

Because Garmin Corporation,
one of the Company’s principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan
with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmin’s operations. The Taiwan Foreign Exchange
Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provides that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated
to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred
to as the CBC. Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from
exports of merchandise and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the
import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related
foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan
foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year. Currency conversions
within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC. The above limits
apply to remittances involving a conversion between New Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies. The CBC typically
approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review and presents legitimate business reasons
justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term foreign
debt with the CBC.

 

Environmental Matters 

 

Garmin’s operations
are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances
and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
Capital expenditures for environmental controls are included in our normal capital budget.

 

Environmental regulation
of Garmin’s products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and
material composition of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers
to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance
with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental
laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial.

 

Garmin has implemented
multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards,
and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility,
Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.

 

Regulatory and “Green
Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing; particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly
design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established.  Garmin
is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.

 

Employees 

 

As of December 26,
2015, Garmin had 11,651 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 4,333 were in the United States, 88 were in Canada, 5,289
were in Taiwan, 1,294 were in Europe, and 647 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil
and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.

 



     16 
     
    

 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

 

The risks described below are not the
only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial
may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results
could be materially adversely affected.

 

Risks Related to the Company

 

If we are not successful in the continued
development, introduction or timely manufacture of new products, demand for our products could decrease. 

 

We expect that a significant
portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. The market for our products
is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce
new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer
needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research
and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such
products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will
achieve significant customer acceptance.

 

If we are unable to
successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations
would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license
new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may
materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to
new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and
there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these
products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related to new
products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval,
or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

If we are unable to compete effectively
with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders,
reduced margins and loss of market share. 

 

The markets for many
of our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly
greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or
emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development,
promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. Increased competition could result in
price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against
current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 

The demand for personal navigation devices
(PNDs) has been and continues to be reduced by replacement technologies becoming available on mobile devices and factory-installed
systems in new autos, as well as by market saturation. 

 

GPS/navigation technologies
have been incorporated into competing devices such as mobile handsets, tablets, and new automobiles through factory-installed systems.
Many companies are now offering navigation software for these mobile devices. The acceptance of this technology by consumers has
reduced sales in this segment and has reduced margins in some periods. Navigation systems are also becoming more prevalent as standard
and/or optional equipment on new automobiles. Increased navigation penetration on mobile handsets and in new automobiles is expected
to cause further declines in sales of our portable navigation devices and could further reduce margins.

 



Our annual and quarterly financial statements
will reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation.





 

The operation of Garmin’s subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements
in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening
of the U.S. dollar. The potential of volatile foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect
on our results of operations. The Company has not historically hedged its foreign currency exchange rate risks.

 



     17 
     
    

 



The currencies that
create a majority of the Company’s exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. The Taiwan
Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation. The U.S. Dollar remains the functional currency of Garmin Europe. The
Euro is the functional currency of most European subsidiaries. As these entities have grown, currency moves can generate material
gains and losses. Additionally, Euro denominated inter-company transactions in Garmin Ltd. can also generate currency gains and
losses. Other legal entities primarily use the local currency as the functional currency. Due to the relative size of entities
using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations within
these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.

 

The Company translates all
assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during the year. U.S.
GAAP requires the Company at the end of each accounting period to translate into functional currency all U.S. Dollar denominated
assets and liabilities. This U.S. GAAP-mandated translation will cause us to recognize gain or loss on our financial statements
as the U.S. Dollar strengthens or weakens against the various functional currencies. Such gain or loss will create variations
in our earnings per share. Because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue
to focus on the Company’s operating performance before the impact of the foreign currency translation. 





 



The auto segment, which represents approximately
37% of our revenues, is expected to continue to decline in 2016. 





 

We experienced substantial
growth through 2008 in the auto segment of our business as the products became mass-market consumer electronics in both Europe
and North America. This market is declining as competing technologies emerged and market saturation occurred. This has resulted
in, and could continue to result in, periods of lower revenues for this segment and lower earnings per share.

 

Economic conditions and uncertainty
could adversely affect our revenue and margins.

 

Our revenue and margins
depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness
or constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in periods of decreased revenue and in the future, could result in decreased
revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties
experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs
and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

If we do not correctly anticipate demand
for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have
costly excess production or inventories. 

 

We have generally been
able to increase or decrease production to meet fluctuations in demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors
and may be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support a
diverse product portfolio, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products
mature. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations:

 




·If demand increases beyond what we forecast,
we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those
suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand. 

 


·Rapid increases in production levels to
meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses. These higher
costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may
also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction.

 


·If forecasted demand does not develop,
we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some
or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing
efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins.





 



     18 
     
    

 

We depend on our suppliers, some of
which are the sole source for specific components, and our production would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able
to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. 

 

We are dependent on
third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party
suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors.
The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components
we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are
manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components.

 

In the past we have
experienced shortages of certain components. In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components, the costs of such components
may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are unable to obtain an alternative
source or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, or if the costs of components rise, our ability to maintain timely
and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed.

 

Gross margins for our products may fluctuate
or erode. 

 

Gross margins in some
of our segments have declined in recent years and could further decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that
are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due
to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific
product tend to decrease over that product’s life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost
reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing
new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can
be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products
in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products
do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.



 



     19 
     
    

  

Changes in our United States federal income tax classification
or in applicable tax laws could result in adverse tax consequences to our shareholders. 

 

Legislative proposals
have been considered in the United States within the past few years that could increase the United States tax burden of corporations
with international operations and could broaden the circumstances under which foreign corporations could be considered resident
in the United States.  Legislative proposals are being considered in Switzerland that could make significant changes in the
corporate tax regime and increase the taxes applicable to us in Switzerland.  Our tax position could be adversely impacted
by changes in Swiss, United States or foreign tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof
by any tax authority. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals.

 

Recently, the Organization
for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) issued final recommendations to prevent perceived base erosion and profit shifting
by multinational corporations. While these recommendations are not changes to tax law, the countries where we operate may implement
legislation or take unilateral actions which may result in adverse effects to our income tax provision and financial statements.

 

We do not believe that
we, or any of our United States or non-United States subsidiaries, are currently a ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’
for United States federal income tax purposes.  We do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company.  However,
because the passive foreign investment company determination is made annually based on whether the company’s income or assets
meet certain thresholds as determined under United States federal tax principles which are based on facts and circumstances that
may be beyond our control, we cannot assure that we will not become a passive foreign investment company in the future.  If
we are a passive foreign investment company in any year, then any of our shareholders that is a United States person could be liable
to pay tax on their pro rata share of our income plus an interest charge upon some distributions by us or when that shareholder
sells our common shares at a gain.  Further, if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company in any year in which
a United States person is a shareholder, we generally will continue to be treated as a passive foreign investment company with
respect to such shareholder in all succeeding years, regardless of whether we continue to satisfy the income or asset tests mentioned
above.

 

We
do not believe that we, or any of our United States or non-United States subsidiaries, are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation
(CFC) for United States federal income tax purposes. We do not expect to become a CFC. The CFC determination is made daily based
on whether the United States shareholders own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company. Only United
States persons that own ten percent or more of the voting power of the Company’s shares qualify as United States shareholders.
Currently the Company has two shareholders that qualify as United States shareholders owning greater than ten percent of the voting
power, totaling 35% of the outstanding shares.  Thus, the addition of even one additional ten percent or greater United States
shareholder could result in classification as a CFC and subject all such holders to significant tax consequences. If the Company
were to be classified as a CFC for an uninterrupted thirty day period in any year, the Company’s shareholders that qualify
as United States shareholders could be liable to pay US income tax at ordinary income tax rates on their pro-rata share of certain
categories of the Company’s income for the period in which the Company is classified as a CFC. As the Company cannot control
the ownership of the Company’s stock nor can the Company control which shareholders participate in the Company’s stock
buyback program, ownership changes could result that create United States shareholders which increase the risk of Garmin being
treated as a CFC.



 

We have benefited in the past from Taiwan
government tax incentives offered on certain high technology capital investments that may not always be available. 

 

Our
effective tax rate has historically been lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, in part because we have benefited from incentives
offered in Taiwan related to our high technology investments in Taiwan. The loss of these tax benefits has
begun to have a negative impact on our effective tax rate and reduced benefits will continue into the future. 

 



     20 
     
    

 

We may experience unique economic and political risks associated
with companies that operate in Taiwan. 

 

Relations between Taiwan
and the People’s Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions
of Taiwan in the future could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price
and the liquidity of our shares. Our principal manufacturing facilities where we manufacture all of our products, except our panel-mounted
aviation products, are located in Taiwan.

 

Taiwan has a unique
international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands and all
of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic
and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that
it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan.
Relations between Taiwan and the PRC have on occasion adversely affected the market value of Taiwanese companies and could negatively
affect our operations in Taiwan in the future.

 

Our intellectual property rights are
important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon other’s rights or are infringed upon by others.


 

We rely on a combination
of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect
our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications
to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications
will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. Moreover, even if approved, our
patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons.
Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.

 

Third parties may claim
that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and
financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property
rights and we have been, and currently are, a defendant in lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Litigation concerning patents
or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant
us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities
and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products.

 

We may become subject to significant
product liability costs. 

 

If our aviation products malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane collisions or crashes could
occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products
could cause boats to run aground or cause other wreckage, personal injury or death. If our automotive or marine products contain
defects or errors in the mapping supplied by third-party map providers or if our users do not heed our warnings about the proper
use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these
events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances,
could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products.
However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such
insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover awards
of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins.
If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover
the award, this could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 



     21 
     
    

 

We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in
adverse outcomes.

 

We are subject to a
variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive
relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties
and the outcomes can be difficult to predict. Management may not adequately reserve for a contingent liability, or we may suffer
unforeseen liabilities, which could then impact the results of a financial period. A material adverse impact on our consolidated
financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably
estimable which, if not expected, could harm our results of operations and financial condition.

 



We collect, store, process, and use
personal information and other customer data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related
to privacy, information security, and data protection, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could
harm our business. 

 

We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other user data. Our users’ fitness-related
data and personal information may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, payment account
information, height, weight, age, heart rates, sleeping patterns, GPS-based location, and activity patterns. Due to the volume
and types of the personal information and data we manage and the nature of our products, the security features of our platform
and information systems are critical. If our security measures and applications are breached or fail, unauthorized persons may
be able to obtain access to user data. If we or our third-party service providers, business partners, or third-party apps with
which our users choose to share their Garmin data were to experience a breach of systems compromising our users’ data or
the media suggested that our security measures were insufficient, our brand and reputation could be adversely affected, use of
our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation, and regulatory proceedings. Depending
on the nature of the information compromised, in the event of a data breach or other unauthorized access to our user data, we may
also have obligations to notify users about the incident and we may need to provide some form of remedy
for the individuals affected by the incident. A growing number of legislative and regulatory bodies have adopted consumer
notification requirements in the event of unauthorized access to or acquisition of certain types of personal data. Such breach
notification laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Complying with these obligations
could cause us to incur substantial costs and could increase negative publicity surrounding any incident that compromises user
data. Our users may also accidentally disclose or lose control of their passwords, creating the perception that our systems are
not secure against third-party access. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors, business partners, service
providers, or developers, violate applicable laws, agreements, or our policies, such violations may also put our users’ information
at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. While we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to policy
terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance
coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber
risk.

 

Regulatory authorities
around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the
interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in
flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If
so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could
have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial
costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.

 

Security breaches and other disruptions, including as a result
of cyber attacks, may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 

 

In the ordinary course
of our business, we electronically maintain sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information
and that of our customers and suppliers, and some personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our facilities
and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations. A
breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our customers'
or our employees' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information.  A cybersecurity
breach could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the market's perception
of the security or reliability of our products or services. 

 

We have technology
and processes in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized
access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time,
we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications
we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly
compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud,
trickery or other forms of deceiving our customers and employees. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques
or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, or if such measures are implemented, and even with appropriate
training conducted in support of such measures, human errors may still occur. It is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate
this risk. A party, whether internal or external, who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate information.

 



     22 
     
    

 

Actual or anticipated
attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies,
to train employees, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. Our technology errors and omissions insurance may
not protect against all of the costs, liabilities, and other adverse effects arising from a security breach or system failure.
If we fail to reasonably maintain the security of confidential information, we may suffer significant reputational and financial
losses and our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, a
system breach could result in other negative consequences, including disruption of internal operations, and may subject us to private
litigation, government investigations, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or
remediation costs.

 

We depend on third party licensors for
the digital map data contained in our auto products, and our business and/or gross margins could be harmed if we become unable
to continue licensing such mapping data or if the royalty costs for such data rise.

 

We license digital mapping data for use in our products from various sources. There are only a limited
number of suppliers of mapping data for each geographical region. The two largest digital map suppliers are HERE (formerly known
as NAVTEQ) and TomTom N.V. HERE is owned by Here Acquisition B.V. (a consortium of Daimler AG, BMW AG and Audi AG). Here Acquisition
B.V. is owned by competitors to other global OEMs, who may not wish to utilize mapping content from a competitor. TomTom N.V. is
a competitor of Garmin.

 

Although we do not foresee
difficulty in continuing to license data at favorable pricing due to the long term license extension signed between Garmin and
HERE in February 2015 extending our HERE license agreement through 2024, if we are unable to continue licensing such mapping data
and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the nature of our relationships with HERE changes detrimentally, our ability
to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed.

 

We may have additional income tax liabilities.  

 

We are subject to income
taxes in Switzerland, the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our
worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates
are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical
income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision,
net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.

 

Failure to obtain required certifications of our products
on a timely basis could harm our business. 

 

We have certain products,
especially in our aviation segment, that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example,
FAA certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft.
To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources.
An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce
new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers’ ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification
for our aviation products have resulted, and may in the future result, in our being required to pay compensation to our customers.
Therefore, such inabilities or delays could adversely affect our operating results.  In addition, we cannot assure you that
our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results.

 



     23 
     
    

 

Our business may suffer if we are not
able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. 

 

Our future success depends
partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel.
We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying severance
payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key man
life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services
of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel
we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in some recent years there has been a nationwide
shortage of qualified engineers who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore, it has sometimes been
challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to maintain and expand
our business.

 

Our quarterly operating results are
subject to fluctuations and seasonality. 

 

Our operating results
are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline,
the price of our stock could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and
development costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase research and development
costs, our operating results would be negatively affected.

 

Historically, our revenues
have been weaker in the first quarter of each fiscal year as our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally
lower in this quarter. Sales of certain of our fitness, marine and automotive products tend to be higher in our second fiscal
quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products in the spring season and travel season. Sales of many of our consumer
products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during
the holiday season. In addition, we attempt to time our new product releases to coincide with relatively higher consumer
spending in the second and fourth fiscal quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations.

 

We rely on independent dealers and distributors
to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. 

 

Because we sell many
of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory
levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in
their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient
levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted.

 

Many of our dealers
and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable
terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain
or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with
dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer.

 

We may pursue strategic acquisitions,
investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify,
complete and integrate such transactions. 

 

We intend to evaluate
acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products,
or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings,
additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition,
investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete
those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all.

 



     24 
     
    

 

Any past or future acquisitions
could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and management’s
attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to
integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide
not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other
corporate governance matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we have made in previous years or may make
in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed.

 

There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability
to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. 

 

We are a Swiss company
and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult
to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland
or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability
provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in
Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.

 

A shut down of Federal Aviation Administration
operations would harm our business.

 

Any failure of
Congress to appropriate funds for FAA operations that results in any shut down of FAA operations or furloughing of FAA employees
could result in delays in the required FAA certification of our avionics products and in the production, sale and registration
of aircraft that use our avionics products. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

 

Many of our products rely on the Global
Positioning System.

 

The Global Positioning
System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites
and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department
of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems
are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally
designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However,
of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 20 years.

 

To repair damaged or
malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable,
there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites
may impair the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites
and ground control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access
to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates.

 

GPS is operated by the
U.S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however if the policy were to change, and GPS were
no longer supported by the U.S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations, and financial condition.

 

Some of our products
also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System
(WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS).
Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby
impacting our markets.

 



     25 
     
    

 

Any of the foregoing
factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products
based on competing technologies.

 

Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties
caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism.

 

Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially
any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism,
may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have
an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial
condition.

 

A shut down of airspace
or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. The shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of
our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to
our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers
and distributors.

 

Any reallocation or repurposing of radio
frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference
could harm our business. 

 

Our Global Positioning
System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Government’s Global
Positioning System satellites. The Global Positioning System operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for
radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications
Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations
that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. 
Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used.  In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations
and spectrum usage regulations.

 

Any ITU or national
reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications
of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products
and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers.

 

We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks
related to climate change.

 

Climate change is receiving increasing
attention worldwide.  Some scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases,
including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions.

 

Various
regulatory and legislative measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in different phases of implementation or discussion.
In the aftermath of its 2009 “endangerment finding” that greenhouse gas emissions pose a threat to human health and
welfare, the Environmental Protection Agency has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under
the Clean Air Act. At the federal legislative level, Congressional passage of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory
greenhouse gas emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program, does not appear likely at this time, although it
could be adopted at a future date. It is also possible that Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate
a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency, which could increase
the cost of doing business.

 



     26 
     
    

 

Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations
will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

 

Risks Relating
to Our Shares 

 

The volatility of our stock price could
adversely affect investment in our common shares.

 

The market price of
our common shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile.  During 2015, the closing price of our common shares
ranged from a low of $32.28 to a high of $56.81. A variety of factors could cause the price of our common shares to fluctuate,
perhaps substantially, including:

 


·new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;


·general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations
in interest rates and global currency exchange rates;


·announcements of technological innovations;


·product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions;


·developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers;



·the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components,
such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products;


·quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results;


·changes in applicable tax laws and tax rates;


·developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and
litigation;


·announcements and rumors of developments related to our business,
our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete;


·research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage
houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; 


·any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan
or significant markets where we sell our products; and


·other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks.

 

In addition, in recent
years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price
fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.  Any such fluctuations in
the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.

 

Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over
us. 

 

As of January 25, 2016,
current members and former members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with members of their families
and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 41.1% of
our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring
shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant
effect in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights
of other holders of our common shares.

 



     27 
     
    

 

The rights of our shareholders are governed
by Swiss law.

 

The rights of our shareholders
are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.’s articles of association. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law differ from
the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law allows our shareholders acting
at a shareholders’ meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without approval of a
shareholders’ meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed
at a shareholders’ meeting at least every two years for it to continue to be available. Additionally, subject to specified
exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders
to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various
terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval
by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For
example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of shareholders.
These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater
flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders.

 



The Company has limited capital reserves
from which to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax.

 

If we are unable to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or to pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying
capital contribution reserves, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a
rate of 35%. Over the long term, the amount of par value and qualifying capital contribution reserves available for us to use for
par value reductions or dividends will be limited.  The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid
to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States
of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund
of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders
with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). However, there can
be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value or a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution
reserves, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules
will not be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular
as a result of distributions out of qualifying capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other
restrictions. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or to pay a dividend out of qualifying capital
contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes

 

Under current Swiss
tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss
withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. However, the portion of the repurchase price
that is attributed to qualifying capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding
tax. Therefore, repurchase of our own shares further limits the amount of qualifying capital reserves available for distributions
to shareholders free of Swiss withholding taxes.  No partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered
if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares to the extent sufficient qualifying capital
reserves are available. However, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years and there is not sufficient qualifying
capital contribution reserves, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six year period. 

 

We may follow a share
repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a "second trading line" on the SIX Swiss Exchange
in which Swiss institutional investors buy shares on the open market and sell these shares to us and are generally able to receive
a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase
shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes if and to the extent that the repurchase
of shares is made out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves. No withholding tax would be applicable if and to the extent
that qualifying capital contribution reserves are attributable to the share repurchase.







 



     28 
     
    

 



We have certain limitations on our ability
to repurchase and hold our own shares.

 

Under Swiss law we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares. We and our subsidiaries may
only repurchase and hold our own shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus
as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us
and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory
limit of 10%, however, if our share-holders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board
of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation.
Our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices
that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock
less attractive to investors.

 

As mentioned previously,
we do not believe that we, or any of our United States or non-United States subsidiaries, are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation
(CFC) for United States federal income tax purposes.  However, the repurchase of the Company’s shares reduces the number
of shares outstanding which is the basis for determining the ownership percentages for determination of whether the United States
shareholders own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company.  Only United States persons that own
ten percent or more of the voting power of the Company’s shares qualify as United States shareholders.  We may be limited
in the number of shares we repurchase due to United States shareholders holding percentages.





 

Item 1B