Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Readers are strongly encouraged to consider
those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. The Company does not undertake to update
any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments.

 

Part I

 


Item 1.Business


 

This discussion of
the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified
by reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item
7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference
in partial response to this Item 1. Beginning in 2011, for external reporting purposes, the Company identified five operating
segments – Auto/Mobile, Aviation, Marine, Outdoor and Fitness. Each operating segment is individually reviewed and evaluated
by our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment individually. Prior
to 2011, the Outdoor and Fitness operating segments were combined into a single reportable segment due to the similar nature of
those products, their production processes, the types of customers served, their distribution processes, and similar economic
conditions. Management re-evaluated the combination of these operating segments and determined that based on the growth characteristics
of these segments they should now be reported as two distinct reportable segments. The segment and geographic information included
in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial
response to this Item 1 and has been restated to reflect the five operating segments as discussed above for all periods presented.

 

Garmin was incorporated
in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin
Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate
a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company
of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation
of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).
Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common
share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (“CHF”)
per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.

 



    3
     
    

 

Garmin’s annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by
Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC
maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

 

The reference to Garmin’s
website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information
should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K.

 

Company Overview 

 

Garmin is a leading,
worldwide provider of navigation, communication and information devices and applications, most of which are enabled by Global
Positioning System (“GPS”) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse family of hand-held,
portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile,
outdoor, fitness, marine, and general aviation markets.

 

Overview of the Global Positioning System 

 

The Global Positioning
System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite
technology. The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring
stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment
program to ensure continuous global system coverage. Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government.

 

Prior to May 2000,
the U.S. Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability
(‘‘SA’’) for national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a radius of 100
meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December
2004, the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA again and is committed to preventing hostile
use of GPS through regional denial of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS receiver can calculate
its position to an accuracy of approximately 10 meters or less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications.

 

The accuracy and utility
of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (‘‘WAAS’’)
comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United
States and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute,
terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility
of WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS system had achieved
initial operating capability and that the system was available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics
equipment. Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites.

 

Japan’s MTSAT-based
Satellite Augmentation System (“MSAS”) achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal and approach navigation
for aviation on September 27, 2007. The European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (“SoL”)
service achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal, and approach navigation on March 2, 2011.

 



    4
     
    

 

Recent Developments in the Company’s
Business

 

Since the inception
of its business, Garmin has delivered over 112 million products, which includes the delivery of over 15 million products during
2012.

 

Automotive/Mobile
Product Introductions

 

In
April 2012, Garmin announced that it will provide a fully integrated, factory-installed infotainment system for most American
2013 model year Suzuki vehicles

 

In September 2012,
Garmin announced the next generation of its award-recognized navigation system built into various
Chrysler vehicles.

 

Outdoor Product
Introductions

 

Garmin expanded its
line of products for golfers in 2012 with the introduction of the Approach® S3 touchscreen GPS golf watch that comes preloaded
with 27,000 worldwide golf courses..

 

In
July 2012, Garmin announced the fēnix™ GPS watch for outdoor
activities such as mountaineering, hiking, cycling, hunting and backpacking. In July 2012, Garmin
announced the Alpha™ integrated tracking and training system for sporting dogs.

 

Fitness
Product Introductions

 

Garmin
added to its line of products for fitness enthusiasts in 2012 with the Garmin Swim™, its first training watch designed specifically
for swimmers that lets users track stroke type, stroke count, distance, pace, and lengths. Garmin also announced the Forerunner®
10 entry-level running watch.

 

Marine Product
Introductions

 

During
2012 Garmin introduced the echoMAP™ 50s and 70s combination fishfinders/ chartplotters and the GPSMAP®
500 and 700 line of chartplotters and combination chartplotter/sonar units.

 

Aviation Product
Introductions

 

Among Garmin’s
aviation product introductions in 2012 were a comprehensive suite of certified and portable ADS-B solutions as well as the GWXTM
70 doppler-enabled weather radar, the G5000HTM integrated flight deck
for twin turbine, medium lift helicopters and new features for the GTN series of touchscreen avionics.

 

Products 

 

Garmin has achieved a leading market position
and a history of growth in revenues and profits by offering ergonomically designed, user-friendly products with innovative features
and designs covering a broad range of applications and price points. Garmin’s target markets are currently broken down into
its five main business segments – automotive/mobile, outdoor, fitness, marine and aviation.

 

Automotive/Mobile

 

Garmin offers a broad range of automotive
navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market. Garmin believes that
its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. The table below includes a
sampling of the primary automotive and mobile products and applications that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.

 



    5
     
    

 



    nüvi®
     

    (34 models)
    The nüvi is Garmin’s popular
    personal navigation device (PND). All nüvi models combine a full-featured GPS navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmin’s
    uniquely simple user interface. Different nüvi models and optional add-ons offer a plethora of additional feature sets,
    including a wide screen display, integrated traffic receiver for traffic avoidance (including some models with lifetime traffic
    updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names, voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist
    with PhotoReal junction views - thousands of high quality photos of actual upcoming junctions, 3-D building view, Bluetooth®
    hands-free capability, built-in maps of Europe, and the ability to add custom points of interest and a custom GPS voice. Bluetooth
    enabled models are compatible with Garmin Mechanic and ecoRoute™ HD, which provide engine monitoring, sensor and gauge
    data, fuel efficiency and engine diagnostics. In January 2013 Garmin announced the 2013 line of nüvis. New to the 2013
    line are, among other features, Garmin Real Directions™ which guides drivers by telling them to turn at recognizable
    landmarks, buildings, stop signs and traffic lights, and Active Lane Guidance which features voice prompts and visual lane
    animation. In addition, the 2013 line of nüvis feature an all new design and larger screens that range from 4.3 to 7
    inches. In fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, the nüvi class of products represented approximately 43%, 48%, and 54% of
    Garmin’s total consolidated revenues, respectively.

     
     

    fleet™ 590
    In January 2013, Garmin announced
    the fleet 590, which is Garmin’s first portable and connected fleet management GPS that combines the necessities of
    fleet management with the simplicity of Garmin navigation. The fleet 590 delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch fleet
    system for business owners and their drivers. 

     
     

    zūmo®
     

    (4 models)
    Motorcycle-specific navigators with
    features including a glove-friendly touch screen with high bright sunlight-readable display, motorcycle mount, vibration-tested
    design, and Bluetooth wireless technology. A microSD™ (secure digital) card slot allows riders to share their favorite
    places and rides with fellow zūmo riders. The zūmo 660LM and 665LM feature 3-D building view, lane assist with junction
    view, a digital fuel gauge and lifetime map updates. The 665LM includes an antenna for XM Satellite Radio®, XM NavWeather®
    and XM NavTraffic® (subscription is required for XM content). In June 2012 Garmin announced the zūmo 350LM, which
    is light-weight, includes lifetime map updates and transmits guidance information via compatible Bluetooth headsets/helmets.

     
     

    dēzl™
     

    (4 models)
    Navigators designed exclusively for
    the over-the road trucking industry. The dēzl  features a large display, a built-in
    loudspeaker, and offers a number of additional user-friendly features including truck-specific points of interest (POIs),
    hours, fuel and mileage logging, truck speed limits and advanced navigation and route planning and calculation with Garmin’s
    nüRoute™ technology. In August 2012 Garmin announced the dēzl 760LMT which is Garmin’s first trucking
    navigator with a seven-inch display and a new Active Lane Guidance feature that helps trucks navigate intersections and exits.
    The dēzl 760LMT also includes lifetime map and traffic updates, and has the ability to receive real-time information,
    such as fuel prices, traffic camera images and weather through Smartphone Link. 

 



    6
     
    

 



    StreetPilot® 
     

    For Windows® Phone
     

    Application
    This smartphone application is designed
    specifically for Windows phones, and provides users turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other popular Garmin navigation
    features.

     
     

    Streetpilot Onboard
     

    Application
    This
    application is designed specifically for Apple iPhone and iPad devices, and it turns such devices into a premium GPS
    navigator with turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions that speaks street names and automatically calculates a new route if
    the user gets off track. 

     
     

    Smartphone Link
    Allows
    any Bluetooth enabled 2012 or 2013 Garmin nüvi and an Android smartphone to communicate and share data. Among other functionalities,
    the application lets nüvi users add live services, such as traffic information, traffic camera images, weather and fuel
    prices to their navigation device, utilizing the smartphone's mobile data plan. Smartphone Link is available at no cost in
    the Android Market and includes several free live services as well as premium content available through subscriptions. 

     
     

    NAVIGON
    
     

    MobileNavigator
    The
    NAVIGON MobileNavigator application transforms a user’s iPhone into a mobile navigation device, and provides useful
    information such as route distance, time of arrival, motorway services, gas stations, speed limits and border crossings. 

     
     

    NAVIGON
    
     

    for
     

    Windows
    Phone 7
    With
    NAVIGON for Windows Phone 7, users can turn their Windows mobile phones into a mobile navigation device with features such
    as text-to-speech spoken turn-by-turn navigation instructions, Reality View Pro junction information and depictions, and Lane
    Assist Pro.

     
     

    NAVIGON
    
     

    MobileNavigator
     

    Android
    With
    NAVIGON MobileNavigator Android, users can turn their Android mobile phones into a mobile navigation device with features
    such as text-to-speech spoken turn-by-turn navigation directions, Reality View Pro junction information and depictions, Lane
    Assist Pro, and live real-time weather and traffic information.

 

Outdoor

 

The
table below includes a sampling of the outdoor products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.

 



    Dakota®
     

    (2 models)
    The Dakota series is Garmin’s
    entry level series of handheld GPS navigators with built-in mapping. The Dakota 10 is a rugged, palm-sized navigator that
    offers a touchscreen display, high-sensitivity GPS, and a built-in worldwide basemap. The Dakota 20 adds a barometric altimeter,
    3-axis electronic compass, and a microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps. The 20 model also allows a user to
    share waypoints, tracks, routes and geocaches wirelessly with other compatible Dakota, Foretrex®, Oregon® and Colorado®
    users.

 



    7
     
    

 



    Oregon®
     

    (8 models)
    In January 2013, Garmin announced
    the all new Oregon 600/600t and 650/650t, which offer a rugged, sunlight-readable, touchscreen along with a built-in basemap
    with shaded relief, a high-sensitivity receiver, barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, microSD™ card slot,
    picture viewer and more. The high-end Oregon 650 and 650t models each come with a built-in
    8 megapixel autofocus digital camera, and each photo taken by these devices is automatically geotagged with the location of
    where it was taken, allowing the user to navigate back to that exact spot in the future. 

     
     

    Rino® 
     

    (4 models)
    Handheld two-way Family Radio Service
    (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) radios that integrate two-way voice communications with GPS navigation. Features
    include patented “peer-to-peer position reporting” so you can transmit your location to another Rino radio. The
    Rino 120 offers an FRS/GMRS radio plus GPS navigator with an internal basemap and MapSource compatibility for street-level
    mapping. The Rino 610 is an entry level 1-watt FRS/GMRS radio handheld GPS radio is powered by
    four AA batteries and comes pre-loaded with a worldwide basemap. The Rino 650 and 655t 5-watt FRS/GMRS radios have a communication
    range of up to 20 miles and have evolved to include a 2.6” glove-friendly touchscreen and include features such as a
    barometric altimeter, 3-axis tilt compensated compass and NOAA weather radio.

     
     

    fēnix™
    In
    July 2012 Garmin announced the fēnix, which is Garmin’s first GPS wrist watch for outdoorsmen, such as mountaineers,
    hikers, cyclists, hunters and backpackers. The fēnix provides comprehensive navigation and tracking functionalities,
    as well as trip information, such as heading, elevation and weather changes. 

     
     

    Montana™
     

    (3
    models)
    The Montana features
    a ruggedized design with multiple mounting and battery options, dual-orientation and screen layout options and support for
    a wide range of Garmin cartography. It has a barometric altimeter for elevation profiling and ability to profile the route
    ahead using an included worldwide elevation model. The included 3-axis compass gives it a heading while standing still or
    when not held level. Montana 600 is the base model and features a 4-inch color touchscreen dual orientation display
    and supports multiple mapping options like BirdsEye Satellite Imagery, BlueChart®
    g2 and TOPO U.S. 24K. Montana has key features for the outdoors such as a 3-axis
    tilt-compensated compass and barometric altimeter. Montana 650 adds a 5 megapixel camera, and Montana 650t adds preloaded
    TOPO U.S. 100K maps.

     
     

    eTrex®
     

    (4 models)
    Evolving from one of the world’s
    most reliable and popular handhelds,in 2011 this entry level option was given enhanced ergonomics, an improved interface,
    paperless geocaching and in certain models, a 65k color screen with expanded mapping capabilities.
    These additions, along with up to 25 hours of battery life, make the eTrex more versatile and user-friendly, while maintaining
    its durability.

 



    8
     
    

 



    GPSMAP®62 
     

    (5 models)
    Rugged
    outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and outdoors enthusiasts. The basic GPSMAP 62 includes a built-in
    worldwide basemap with shaded relief. The GPSMAP 62s adds a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass and wireless connectivity
    for sharing routes, tracks, waypoints and geocaches between other compatible Garmin handhelds. The GPSMAP 62s also includes
    a barometric altimeter that tracks changes in pressure to pinpoint the precise altitude. In addition to these features, the
    GPSMAP 62st includes preloaded 100K topographic maps for the entire United States (or preloaded 50K topographic mapping of
    Canada for the Canadian version). The GPSMAP 62stc features a 3-axis tilt-compensated compass, a barometric altimeter,
    5 megapixel autofocus camera with photo navigation, preloaded TOPO U.S. 100K maps and supports custom maps and BirdsEye™
    Satellite imagery (subscription required). The GPSMAP 62sc features a 3-axis tilt-compensated compass, a barometric altimeter,
    a 5 megapixel autofocus camera with photo navigation, and support for Custom Maps and BirdsEye™ Satellite imagery (subscription
    required).

     
     

    Approach®
     

    (5 models)
    The Approach G5 is a waterproof,
    touchscreen, handheld GPS for golfers that features over 19,500 preloaded golf course maps. Approach G5 uses a high-sensitivity
    GPS receiver to measure individual shot distances and show the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A statistic-tracking
    feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics. The Approach G6 is a sleek,
    slim glove-friendly device weighing just over three ounces that comes preloaded with over 29,500 worldwide courses.
    The Approach G3 is a smaller, lighter version of the G5, yet still offers over 19,500 preloaded courses. The
    Approach S1 and S3 are wearable golf watches that display precise yardages to the front, back and middle of greens. The Approach
    S3 comes preloaded with over 29,500 courses, has a touchscreen and includes manual pin positioning, which allows users to
    tap and drag the flag on the green for precise yardage to the flag. 

    Astro®
     

    (1 model)
    High sensitivity GPS-enabled dog tracking
    system. The Astro 320 is designed to pinpoint up to ten dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and
    a handheld system. The system also provides a Dog Tracker page and a Covey Countertm
    to assist the hunter. It is loaded with many of the features of our outdoor devices including: barometric altimeter,
    electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior. , The Astro 320
    is fully compatible with Garmin’s DC 20, DC 30, and DC 40 dog tracking collars and accessories. In addition to
    the pre-installed basemap, the Astro 320 can be loaded with 100k or 24k Topo maps or photorealistic BirdsEye™
    Satellite Imagery (annual subscription required).  The Astro 320 has 1.7 gigabytes of on-board memory available
    for loading maps, and a microSD slot for pre-loaded cards.

     
     

    Alpha™
    100/TT™10
    Alpha combines proven Garmin GPS dog
    tracking technology with Tri-Tronics® electronic dog training. The integrated handheld system allows users to track and
    train their dogs in the field from a range of up to 9 miles, delivering their exact position as often as every 2.5 seconds.
    A single Alpha 100 can track up to 20 dogs or fellow hunters when using either additional Alpha 100 handhelds or TT 10 track
    and train dog devices. 

     
     

    Bark
    Limiter™ 
    In
    January 2013, Garmin announced the Bark Limiter, which is an intuitive electronic bark correction device that was designed
    by Garmin using proven Tri-Tronics; dog training technology. Bark Limiter uses accelerometer-based
    bark identification to distinguish between barking and other vocalizations. 

     
     

    Delta™
    
    In
    January 2013, Garmin announced the Delta series of training collars for dogs. Using proven Tri-Tronics technology, the Delta
    remote training device includes an easy-to-read LCD screen, intuitive, 3-button front controller, separate side buttons for
    level adjustment and dog selection. Delta can also remember an individual dog’s training settings and is optimized to
    work on all dog breeds and coat lengths. 

 



    9
     
    

 



    GTU™ 10 GPS Tracker
    A GPS locator
    that combines a web-based tracking service with GPS technology so the user can keep track his or her children, pets and property
    by monitoring the device’s location through either Garmin’s secure website using any computer or with the
    free Garmin Tracker™ app.

     
     

    OpenCaching App
    Allows users to participate in geocaching
    by hiding, finding, logging and sharing cache information from their smartphone. 

 

Fitness

 

The
table below includes a sampling of the fitness products and applications that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the
world.

 



    Forerunner®
     

    (7 models)
    Compact, lightweight training assistants
    for athletes with integrated GPS sensor that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a
    heart rate monitoring function and heart-rate based calorie computation. All models allow runners to upload their data to
    Garmin Connect™, where they can store, analyze and share their workout data. The Forerunner
    610 is Garmin’s flag ship running watch. It has a touch-screen and includes Virtual Racer™, which allows runners
    to race against their previous best times, using data stored on the watch. In August 2012, Garmin announced the Forerunner
    10, which is an entry level watch for runners, joggers and walkers of all levels. The Forerunner 10 provides users the most
    essential data – time, distance and pace – while also identifying their personal records along the way. The
    Forerunner 310XT model, which was designed specifically for triathletes, is water-resistant to
    50m and tracks biking and running data (and optional heart rate data). The Forerunner 910XT is the latest model that
    was designed specifically for triathletes and it is an all-in-one GPS-enabled device that provides
    detailed swim metrics and tracks distance, speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling. Designed for both
    open water and pool swimming, Forerunner 910XT is water resistant to 50 meters and offers extensive swim metrics, including
    swim distance, stroke identification, stroke count and pool lengths. 

     
     

    Edge®
     

    (5 models)
    Integrated personal training systems
    designed for cyclists. The Edge 200 measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, altitude and more.
    The Edge 500 is geared toward performance-driven cyclists and tracks the cyclist’s distance, speed, location and elevation
    with high sensitivity GPS, and also tracks the cyclist’s heart rate with an optional heart rate monitor (sold separately).
    The Edge 800 added a touchscreen interface to the Edge family of products. In January 2013, Garmin announced the Edge 810
    and 510, which are Garmin’s first dedicated cycling devices with real-time connectivity that combine the most popular
    features of the Edge 800 and 500 while adding advanced connected features through a smartphone, such as live tracking, social
    media sharing and real-time weather updates. 

     
     

    Garmin Swim™
    In June 2012, Garmin announced Garmin
    Swim, which is a watch that is designed for swimming pool use and allows users to track stroke type, stroke count, distance,
    pace and lengths. Users can also upload their swim data to Garmin Connect, where they can store, analyze and share the data.

 



    10
     
    

 



    Garmin
    Fit™ Application
    Garmin’s
    first fitness app that lets users track metrics such as speed, pace, distance, time, calories, and with optional Garmin accessories
    displays heart rate and cadence. Garmin Fit also maps and automatically uploads workouts to Garmin’s Garmin Connect,
    which is Garmin’s website where users can track their workout data.

     
     

    Garmin
    Connect
     

    Mobile Application
    Garmin Connect Mobile turns a user’s Garmin Edge 510 or 810
    cycling computer into a connected device capable of sharing the user’s activities as they happen and wirelessly uploading
    them to Garmin Connect, where the user can store, analyze and share them. The app also
    provides real-time weather data and allows users to wirelessly download courses to use on their rides.

 

Marine 

 

Garmin’s marine
products include handhelds, network products and multifunction displays, fixed-mount GPS/chartplotter products, instruments, fishfinders,
radar, autopilots, VHF radios, marine watches, marine networking products, and sounder products. The table below includes a sampling
of some of the marine products that Garmin currently offers to consumers.

 

Marine
Chartplotters and Networking Products

 



    GPSMAP® 7000
    series
     

    (4 models)
    The
    GPSMAP 7000 series of large format touchscreen multi-function displays include Garmin’s G Motion technology, which delivers
    ultra-smooth map panning and zooming with virtually seamless graphical updating in all dimensions.  The 7000 series chartplotters
    also feature a low-level backlight display and a backlit keypad for use in low-light conditions without compromising
    vision. The GPSMAP 7x15 series offers a large 15-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable touchscreen display,
    and is offered in two models – the GPSMAP 7015 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP
    7215, which comes pre-loaded with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas.   Mariners
    can also opt for the same XGA resolution in a 12-inch diagonal screen configuration with the GPSMAP 7012 and GPSMAP 7212 models,
    which offer a worldwide basemap and coastal charts respectively.  All models are compatible with an optional wireless
    remote and a wireless mouse for additional flexibility and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard
    sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar,
    XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data). 

     
     

    GPSMAP 6000 series
     

    (4 models)
    Like the 7000 series, the 6000 series
    key multi-function models also offer Garmin’s G Motion technology and the features to improve visibility in low-light
    conditions. The GPSMAP 6x12 series features a traditional soft-key interface with an alphanumeric
    keypad and a 12-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable display.  Within this family, Garmin offers the
    GPSMAP 6012 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 6212 with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts
    and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas preloaded.  For a smaller display, the GPSMAP 6x08 series offers an 8-inch VGA (640
    x 480) sunlight readable display with a soft-key interface. The models in the GPSMAP 6000 series are all compatible with an
    optional wireless remote and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and
    Garmin Marine Network connectivity. 

 



    11
     
    

 



    GPSMAP 5200 series/
     

    5000 series
     

    (6 models)
    These touch-screen multifunction
    displays for the Garmin Marine Network (a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data)
    offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color. The 5212 (which offers a 12-inch diagonal display) and the 5208
    (which offers an 8-inch diagonal display) come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and
    are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite
    imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance. The 5215 and 5015 offer 15-inch diagonal sunlight-readable
    touchscreen displays. 

     
     

    GPSMAP 4000 series/
     

    4200 series (6 models)
    These key multifunctional displays
    for the Garmin Marine Network offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color. The 4212 (which offers a 12-inch diagonal
    display) and 4208 (which offers an 8-inch diagonal display) come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer
    Charts, and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution
    satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance. The 4210 and 4010 feature 10.4-inch diagonal
    sunlight- readable displays.

     
     

    GPSMAP 6x0and 7x0 series
     

    (6 models)
    The 6x0 series chartplotters offer
    a WVGA touchscreen display and provide navigational support for both marine mode and automotive mode (when loaded with optional
    City Navigator® NT road maps for North America). The 7x0 models, which offer a 7-inch diagonal display, are touchscreen
    controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters offering radar capability and built-in sonar. 

     
     

    GPSMAP
    500 and 700
     

    Series
    (8 models)
    In
    November 2012, Garmin announced the new GPSMAP 500 and 700 series. The GPSMAP 741 and 721 are 7 inch WVGA multi-touch chartplotters
    with internal high sensitivity 10Hz GPS/GLONASS receivers, pitch-to-zoom capability, preloaded mapping (the 741 is preloaded
    with US coastal and lake mapping, and the 721 is preloaded with a worldwide basemap), media integration and autopilot, radar
    support, and NMEA 2000 and wireless connectivity. The GPSMAP 741xs and 721xs include HD-ID sonar with CHIRP capability. The
    GPSMAP 547 and 527 are 5 inch chartplotters with internal high sensitivity 10Hz GPS/GLONASS receivers and preloaded mapping
    (the 547 is preloaded with US coastal and lake mapping, and the 527 is preloaded with a worldwide basemap). The GPSMAP 547xs
    and 527xs include HD-ID sonar with CHIRP capability. 

     
     

    GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1
     

    series (11models)
    Building
    upon the success of the GPSMAP 400 and 500 series, the new chartplotters in the GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1 series come standard with
    an internal high-sensitivity GPS receiver that allows for faster acquisition times and better satellite tracking so that boaters
    are able to acquire and maintain a GPS fix more easily. In addition, these units boast an improved, high-speed digital design
    that will increase map drawing and panning speeds. The sounder (“s”) version of each model comes with a powerful
    dual-frequency transducer that clearly illustrates depth contours, fish targets and structures in either fresh or salt water.
    Many of the new models in this series are also NMEA 2000 certified and can interface with Garmin’s full lineup of NMEA
    2000 marine sensors and autopilots, as well as many other third-party sensors.

 



    12
     
    

 



    GPSMAP 4x1
     

    series (4 models)
    With
    a 4-inch QVGA sunlight-readable display, the GPSMAP 4x1 series was designed for the boater who wants high performance in a
    small package. These units feature a high-sensitivity GPS receiver and faster processors, and are offered with the same cartography
    configuration as the GPSMAP 5x1 series. Likewise, the GPSMAP 4x1s series is also available with a built-in sonar with a 500-watt
    RMS dual-frequency transducer for offshore use and a 400-watt RMS with a dual beam transducer for inland use. For satellite
    weather and radio data, the GPSMAP 441 and 421 are also compatible with the GXM 51 receiver.

     
     

    echoMap™ 
     

    Chartplotter/fishfinder
     

    combo series (2 models)
    In November 2012, Garmin announced
    the echoMap 50s and 70s, which are chartplotter/fishfinder combinations with a 5 inch display, 10 Hz GPS/GLONASS and HD-ID
    sonar. 

     
     

    GSD 22, 24
     

    and 26
    These “black-box” sounders
    interface with Garmin display units and chartplotters and enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder
    functions in a remote mounted package. 

     
     

    GMS 10
    The GMS 10 Network Port Expander
    is the "nerve center" of the Garmin Marine Network. This 100-Mbit switch is designed to support the connection of
    multiple sensors to the Garmin Marine Network. 

     
     

    Other Marine Products

     
     

    GMI™ 10
    The GMI 10 is a NMEA 2000 and NMEA
    0183 compliant instrument that displays data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Mariners can use the GMI 10 to display
    instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction
    and more, depending upon what sensors are connected. 

     
     

    GPSMAP 78sc 
     

     
    Marine-friendly
    GPS handheld featuring a new contemporary industrial design with rubber side grips. The GPSMAP 78sc includes high-end features
    such as a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography
    for the coastal United States. 

     
     

    VHF Marine Radios
     

    (4 models)
    This series of marine
    radios offers differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners. The VHF 100 is an
    entry-level, NMEA 0183 compatible VHF marine radio. The VHF 200 is NMEA 2000 compatible. The next step up is the VHF 300,
    which is designed for 35+ foot boats and is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible and offers multi-station support. Also designed
    for 35+ foot boats, the VHF 300 AIS is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all
    AIS channels at the same time. 

 



    13
     
    

 



    Marine
     

    Autopilot Systems
     

    (7 models)
    The GHP 12 is a full-featured marine
    autopilot designed for 20- to 70-foot sailboats with linear-actuated steering systems, and for powerboats with both solenoid-driven
    and cable-actuated steering systems, as well as those with third party hydraulic pumps. The GHP 10 autopilot is also for powerboats
    and comes with Garmin’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the
    helm is turned, allowing the helmsman to maneuver the boat. This autopilot automatically re-engages when a steady course is
    held by the helmsman. The TR-1 Gold Marine Autopilot offers remote steering and speed control to operators of small gasoline
    outboard motor boats up to 20 horsepower. Finally, the GHP 10V Autopilot System for Volvo Penta IPS and Sterndrive Joystick
    Systems is approved for use with boats that have an integrated Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system and features
    Garmin’s Shadow Drive™ technology, a patented capability that automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm
    is turned, allowing for quick and safe manual maneuvers without manually disengaging the autopilot. In February 2012, Garmin
    announced the GHP™ 20 Steer-by-Wire Autopilot that is certified for VIPER (Viking Independent Programmable Electro-hydraulic
    Rudder) steering systems on VIKING yachts. Garmin also announced in February 2012 the GHP 20 Steer-by-Wire Autopilot that
    is certified for all Teleflex Marine Optimus Electronic Power Steering (EPS) systems. In September 2012, Garmin announced
    the GHP 20 Autopilot with SmartPump for boats with hydraulic steering.

     
     

    Standalone Fishfinders
     

    (7 models)
    Garmin offers 7 different standalone
    fishfinder options spanning various price points. The latest addition to Garmin’s fishfinder lineup is the echo™
    fishfinder series, a line of standalone fishfinders that all offer an updated look and new Garmin HD-ID™ target tracking
    technology. The echo™ line ranges in price points from models with grayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C,
    which features a video-quality 640x480 pixel 5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish arch
    display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet. 

     
     

    Radar
     

    (9 models)
    Garmin offers both radomes and open
    array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double
    as the radar screen. The GMR™ 18 is a digital radome product with a 4 kilowatt radar with 36 nm range that is 0.45 m
    in diameter and comes with an antenna with 5.0° beamwidth. The GMR 404 and 406 open array radar scanners provide even
    greater clarity and a 72 nautical mile range. The GMR 18 HD and GMR 24 HD radomes feature digital signal processing providing
    sharper radar imagery and improved target separation. The newest generation of open-array digital
    radar scanners are the GMR™ 1204/1206 xHD, the GMR 604/606 xHD and the GMR 404/406 xHD models, which transmit with 12,
    6 and 4 kilowatts of power respectively. All six of these open-array scanners have a maximum effective range of 72 nautical
    miles. 

     
     

    quatix™
    On
    January 17, 2013 Garmin announced the quatix, which is Garmin’s first GPS watch designed for mariners, both power and
    sail. The quatix combines pivotal marine features and provides both navigation and sailing capabilities while integrating
    Garmin’s GPS technology and interface. 

    BlueChart®
    Mobile
     

    Application
    In February 2012, Garmin announced
    the BlueChart Mobile application for Apple iPad and iPhone devices. The application provides mariners the features and BlueChart
    data included on our Garmin chartplotters on their iPad or iPhone devices.

     
     

    Nexus
    MarineProducts
    In
    September 2012, Garmin acquired Nexus Marine AB (now known as Garmin Stockholm AB), a leading supplier of instrumentation
    for the sailing and yachting market. Nexus designs and manufactures sailing instrumentation systems, and it also supplies
    binoculars, accessories and Silva branded marine compasses.

 



    14
     
    

 

Aviation 

 

Garmin’s aviation
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems,
terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products, audio panels, cockpit
datalink systems and more.

 

Garmin’s aviation
products are sold in both new aircraft/helicopters and the retrofit market where existing aircraft/helicopters are fitted with
the latest electronics from Garmin’s broad product line.

 

Garmin offers its range
of avionics to leading General Aviation aircraft manufacturers such as the Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Diamond Aircraft
Industries, Embraer, Piper Aircraft, Inc., DAHER- SOCATA and Quest Aircraft through the installation of the G1000 integrated flight
deck as original equipment aboard new aircraft. This system integrates attitude, heading, air data, navigation, communication,
engine monitoring, autopilot, and other aircraft functions into a single cohesive system which interfaces with the flight crew
using a set of large, bright TFT displays. Garmin has expanded the G1000 certifications to the helicopter market with the G1000H,
a version of the G1000 specifically designed for helicopters. Garmin has also announced its next generation integrated flight
deck systems, the G2000, G3000 and G5000, which have been selected by aircraft manufacturers such as Cessna Aircraft Company,
Bombardier, and Honda Aircraft Corporation.

 

The table below includes
a sampling of some of the aviation products currently offered by Garmin:

 

Handheld and portable aviation
products: 

 



    aera®
    series
     

    (6
    models)
    Combines the latest aviation portable
    with a full-featured automotive GPS, allowing pilots to transition between aviation to automotive mode with one touch. Featuring
    a 4.3-inch QVGA wide-format display with touchscreen interface, all aera models come with preloaded automotive maps, a built-in
    terrain/obstacles aviation database, patented Panel Page instrument display, and other features. When in aviation mode,
    pilots see colorful icons that use intuitive pictures and labels to indicate their function. As
    Garmin’s flagship portable aviation product, the aera 796 incorporates the popular features of the GPSMAP® 696,
    while also adding new capabilities such as a touchscreen user interface, pilot-selectable screen orientation and 3D Vision.
    The aera 796 also takes the pilot one step closer to a paperless cockpit with a digital document viewer, scratch pad and pre-loaded
    geo-referenced AeroNav IFR and VFR enroute charts. The aera 795 has the same features as the aera 796 except does not include
    XM radio and weather. 

     
     

    GPSMAP 695/696
    The GPSMAP 696 offers a bright 7-inch
    screen, preloaded detailed electronic charts, preloaded airways and IFR map mode. The GPSMAP 696 has a receiver for XM radio
    and XM WX Satellite Weather (U.S. customers only) that gives next generation radar (NEXRAD), aviation routine weather reports
    (METARs), terminal aerodrome forecasts (TAFs), temporary flight restrictions (TFRs), lightning, winds aloft, turbulence forecasts,
    and several other important weather products (XM subscription required). The GPSMAP 695 has the same features except for XM
    radio and weather. 

     
     

    Garmin
    Pilot™
    Garmin
    Pilot is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on iOS devices, including
    the Apple iPad and iPhone, and Andoid-based mobile devices. It provides instant access to comprehensive U.S. and Canada
    weather data — including NEXRAD radar, visible and infrared cloud imagery, METARs, TAFs, AIRMETs, SIGMETs, PIREPs, NOTAMs,
    winds and temperature aloft, PIREPs, TFRs and lightning data — as it becomes available

 



    15
     
    

 



    SafeNav™
    Powered
     

    by
    Garmin™
    Garmin
    and I.D. Systems, Inc., a leading provider of wireless asset management technology, together provide SafeNav™ Powered
    by Garmin™, an on-vehicle, GPS-based navigation and alert system designed to provide airport vehicle operators with
    real-time situational awareness, with the goal of avoiding accidental runway incursions.

     
     

    GDL®
    39
    In
    July 2012, Garmin announced the GDL 39, which combines a dual-link ADS-B receiver and Garmin GPS receiver into a single unit
    that streams ADS-B datalink traffic and subscription-free weather to select Garmin portable aviation products. 

 

Integrated avionics systems:


 



    G5000™
    The
    G5000 is the first touchscreen-controlled integrated glass avionics suite designed for FAR Part 25 business jets. The G5000,
    which is scalable for use in a wide range of two-crew aircraft, from light jets to super-midsize and larger models, is designed
    specifically for crew-flown turbine aircraft and combines a dual multi-sensor flight management system (FMS), touchscreen
    vehicle management units, and multi-pane cockpit displays. These widescreen displays with touchscreen controls give pilots
    more useful information at their fingertips than ever before, such as worldwide weather, Garmin’s synthetic vision technology
    (SVT™), aircraft synoptics, and electronic flight charts.

     
     

    G3000™
    The G3000, which is designed for use
    in FAR Part 23 turbine aircraft, is the first touchscreen-controlled integrated flightdeck for
    light turbine aircraft.  It features extra-wide 14.1-inch displays with split-screen MFD viewing functionality and PFD
    terrain simulation in 3-D perspective with SVT™ Synthetic Vision Technology. The G3000 includes a stability augmentation
    function called Garmin’s Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system. This electronic monitoring and correction
    technology works to assist the pilot in maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain situations
    to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become distracted,
    disoriented or incapacitated during flight. Garmin ESP is offered as an option on select G3000 and G1000-equipped aircraft.
    

     
     

    G2000®
    The
    G2000 is Garmin’s premium glass flight deck for piston aircraft, bringing a touchscreen user interface, graphical
    flight synoptics, enhanced situational awareness and more to the cockpit. As with the G3000 and
    G5000, the G2000 utilizes the GTC™ 570 vehicle management system, a 5.7-inch diagonal touchscreen controller that uses
    a desktop-like menu interface with intuitive icons. The GTC 570 allows for full control for radio management, audio management,
    flight management, weather systems management, synoptics, and other vehicle systems. The touchscreen also enhances ease of
    use through functions like “back” and “home” that let pilots quickly retrace their steps or return
    to the home screen. The GTC 570 vehicle management system uses patent pending, infrared touchscreen technology, audio and
    visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is responding to their input.

     
     

    G1000®
    The G1000 integrates navigation,
    communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution color displays.
    The G1000 offers general aviation airplane manufacturers an easy-to-install solution for flight displays and provides the
    aircraft owner the benefits of a state-of-the-art avionics system which relies on modern technologies such as solid state
    components and bright, sunlight-readable TFT displays.

 



    16
     
    

 



    G1000H®
    The G1000H
    is an all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market. The G1000H provides important
    flight data, flight instrumentation, navigation, communication, weather, terrain, traffic, identification, and diagnostics
    and maintenance computer, and presents it digitally to the pilot on large, high-resolution displays.

     
     

    G600
    The G600 brings the style and function
    of an all-glass integrated avionics suite to the retrofit market for FAR Part 23 Class
    I, II or III aircraft. The G600 incorporates two individual displays, a PFD and MFD, in a customized package specifically
    designed for easy retrofit installation. The G600 is designed to communicate and integrate with Garmin’s WAAS enabled
    panel mount products, and provides essential information such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain and traffic. Garmin
    has received the FAA’s Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certification (AML STC) for the G600, which will simplify
    certification for over 600 different aircraft models.   The FAA has approved a Supplemental Type Certificate (STC) package
    for Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) certification of the G600 installed in select aircraft. The STC package is
    available for G600 installations on the Cessna 441 Conquest II with an ARC 1000 autopilot, which enables Conquest II operators
    to fly RVSM flight profiles from Flight Level 290 to the aircraft’s maximum operating altitude. This allows Conquest
    II pilots to gain fuel savings, lower their carbon footprint, increase range and give them the flexibility to fly above bad
    weather. In October 2012, Garmin announced new features and additional compatibilities for the G600 and G500. With the latest
    software and the new GAD 43e adapter, the G600 and G500 can display and control such data as altitude preselect and vertical
    speed, DME distance, analog radar altitude, and analog nav data. 

     
     

    G500
    Designed
    specifically for FAR Part 23 Class I/Class II aircraft (single and twin engine aircraft under 6,000 lbs.), the G500 is an
    affordable, dual-screen electronic flight display that works with a pilot’s separate Garmin avionics stack to provide
    a fully TSO’d “glass cockpit” retrofit option. 

     
     

    G500H
    An
    all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market. The
    G500H contains dual 6.5-inch LCD screens, mounted side-by-side in a single bezel, which puts Primary Flight Display (PFD)
    and Multi-Function Display (MFD) capabilities right in front the helicopter pilot. The G500H has been optimized for rotorcraft
    and offers features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000
    heliports and nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather with NEXRAD, and the ability to display
    video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources. 

     
     

    G5000H®
    In February 2012, Garmin announced
    the G5000H, which is an integrated flight deck specifically designed for twin turbine, medium lift helicopters. The G5000H
    combines widescreen displays with touchscreen controls. 

     
     

    G900X™
    An all-glass integrated avionics
    system specifically designed for kitplane builders of the Lancair and Van’s RV-series aircraft. The
    G900X is a fully-customizable glass cockpit for installation in experimental/kitbuilt and light sport aircraft. The G900X
    offers a customizable PFD/MFD combination that features one, two or three all-glass displays; magnetometer; ADAHRS (combined
    air data and AHRS unit) and engine monitoring.

 



    17
     
    

 



    GDU 370/375
    Multifunction displays
    for the light sport retrofit and experimental aircraft markets.

 

Panel-mount aviation products:


 



    GNS 400W Series 
     

    (3 models)
    The GNS 430W is the Wide Area Augmentation
    System (WAAS) successor to Garmin’s popular GNS 430, which was the world’s first ‘‘all-in-one’’
    IFR certified GPS navigation receiver/traditional VHF navigation receiver/instrument landing systems receiver and VHF communication
    transmitter/receiver. Features available in different 400 series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and
    navigation capabilities. Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) is
    an option for the GNS 430W/530W series navigators. When added to the GNS 430W/530W, helicopter
    pilots receive graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle conflicts along the flight path.
    

     
     

    GTN 650 and 750
    The GTN 650 and 750 are the successors
    to the GNS 430W and 530W. The GTN 650 and GTN 750 feature newer capabilities for GPS/NAV/COM
    systems like touchscreen operation, graphical flight planning with victor airways and high-altitude jet routes, remote transponder,
    remote audio control (750 series only), SafeTaxi® and electronic chart capabilities (750 series only). 

     
     

    GTS™ TAS and
     

    TCAS I Systems 
    The GTS 800 series
    of traffic avoidance products combines active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic
    threats. The systems use Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlate automatic dependent surveillance
    broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets. The GTS 800 TAS is a lower-cost system, offering
    40 watts of transmit power and a range of up to 12 nautical miles. The GTS 820 TAS delivers 250 watts of transmit power and
    up to 40 nautical miles of interrogation range. The GTS 850 TCAS I satisfies all TCAS I collision avoidance criteria for higher-capability
    turboprops and jets. It features the same 250 watt performance as the GTS 820, and also meets the FAA’s TCAS I certification
    criteria.

     
     

    GTS 8000
    In October 2012, Garmin announced
    the GTS 8000 Traffic alert and Collision Avoidance System (TCAS II)/Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS II) for transport
    category aircraft. The GTS 8000 meets the most recent TCAS II/ACAS II standardization requirements, including Change 7.1 compliance.
    

     
     

    GI-102A & 106A 
    Course deviation indicators (CDIs).
    The GI-106A is a course deviation indicator that displays rectilinear needle movements indicating where an aircraft is located
    relative to a VOR radial, GPS course, or instrument landing system signal, and contains integral GPS, NAV and VLOC mode annunciators.

     
     

    GMA 
     

    (5 models)
    The GMA 340 is a TSO’d audio
    panel with six-place stereo intercom and independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities. The GMA 240 is a versatile,
    non-TSO’d audio panel designed for experimental and light sport aircraft.
    The GMA 350 and GMA 350H audio panels are designed for fixed wing and rotorcraft, respectively, and they have
    features like voice recognition, 3D spatial audio processing, advanced auto squelch, and ambient noise based volume adjustment.

 



    18
     
    

 



    GTX™ 330 &
    330ES
    FAA-certified Mode S
    transponders with data link capability, including local air traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information
    Service (TIS). With IFR-certified ES, or Extended Squitter, versions of the GTX 330, Garmin provides an affordable pathway
    to ADS-B compliance for the Next Generation airspace system. Using precise GPS-referenced positioning information, the extended
    squitter technology enables transponders to automatically transmit traffic surveillance data such as aircraft flight ID, position,
    altitude, velocity, climb/descent, and heading information. 

     
     

    GTX 327 & 328 
    FAA-certified transponders which
    transmit altitude or flight identification to air traffic control radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance
    devices and feature solid-state construction for longer life. The GTX 327 offers a digital display with timing functions.
    The 328 is designed exclusively for Europe and satisfies the European requirement for a Mode S solution that meets the reduced
    certification requirements for the VFR Mode S mandate.

     
     

    GTX 3000
    In October 2012, Garmin announced
    the GTX 3000, a new remote-mount, Mode-S transponder designed to accommodate the environmental and operational demands of
    transport category aircraft. The GTX 3000 meets the requirements for TCAS II/ACAS II compatibility and also meets the latest
    standards for full ADS-B-“Out” compliance. 

     
     

    GDL® 90
    The GDL 90 was the first airborne
    Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) product certified by the FAA to TSO C145A standards. The GDL 90 combines
    GPS satellite navigation with datalink communications to deliver interactive traffic and hazard surveillance. 

     
     

    GDL 88
    In January 2013, Garmin announced
    that it has received FAA Technical Standard Order authorization and Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certificate approval
    for the GDL series, the industry’s first dual-link ADS-B solution for certified aircraft. With this certification, the
    GDL is approved for installation on most Part 23 fixed-wing aircraft. The GDL 88 provides an ADS-B rule-compliant solution
    for aircraft operating in the United States and below 18,000 feet.

     
     

    GDL 69 and 69A
    The GDL 69 offers the ability to
    provide real-time weather information to the aircraft which can be displayed on one of several panel-mounted devices, such
    as the GNS 430W, GNS 530W, GTN 650, GTN 750, GMX200, G500, G500H, G600, as well as fully integrated G1000/G2000/G3000/G5000
    systems. The GDL 69 and GDL 69A receive real-time weather information broadcast by the XM WX Satellite radio system. In addition,
    the GDL 69A expands the utility of the system by providing CD quality audio provided by XM Satellite Radio (separate subscriptions
    for weather data and audio required).

     
     

    GSR 56
    The
    GSR 56 provides pilots with access to on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position
    tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). In addition to the many on-demand satellite weather
    features, the GSR 56 offers a worldwide tracking solution that continuously monitors an aircraft’s status enroute. 

     
     

    GMX 200™
    A large (6.5-inch) sunlight-readable,
    high-resolution, multi-function display.

 



    19
     
    

 

 



    SL 30 and SL 40
    The SL30 is a compact
    VHF navigation and communications unit that combines a 760-channel VHF communications radio with 200-channel glideslope and
    localizer receivers. The SL40 is a 760-channel VHF communications radio only. Both the SL30 and SL40 feature 10 watt communications
    transmitters.

     
     

    GNC and GTR series
    In January 2013, Garmin announced
    the GNC and GTR series of VHF COM and NAV/COM radios, which will replace the SL 30 and SL 40 models. The
    GTR and GNC series are more powerful than their SL-series predecessors with versions available with 10- or 16-watt transmit
    power, allowing for increased range. The GTR 225 includes 10 watts of transmit power and 25 kHz frequency spacing. The GTR
    225A adds 8.33 kHz frequency spacing. The GTR 225B includes 8.33 kHz spacing and 16-watt transmit power. The GNC 255A includes
    10 watts of transmit power and the GNC 255B includes 16 watts of transmit power. Both GNC models include 8.33 kHz spacing.

     
     

    GWX™ 68
    The GWX 68 is an all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitter
    that brings real-time weather to Garmin’s multi-function displays and Integrated Avionics Systems.

     
     

    GWX 70
    In July 2012, Garmin announced the
    GWX 70, which is a new solid-state weather radar that brings advanced Doppler-enabled features to general aviation aircraft.
    

 

Sales and Marketing 

 

Garmin’s non-aviation
products are sold through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors in approximately 100
countries who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customer’s purchases
represented 10% or more of Garmin’s consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 29, 2012. Marketing support
is provided geographically from Garmin’s offices in Olathe, Kansas (North, South and Central America),
 in the U.K. (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa), Switzerland (covering Western Europe), Australia (also covering
New Zealand), Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, and Taiwan (covering Asia excluding China). Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s
global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction. 

 

Garmin’s U.S.
consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales
managers and in-house sales associates. Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product
sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s
in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible
for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles
the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors
include:

 


·Best
                                                                                                          Buy—one of
                                                                                                          the largest U.S. and
                                                                                                          Canadian electronics
                                                                                                          retailers;

 


·Amazon.com—internet
                                                                                                          retailer;

 


·Costco—an
                                                                                                          international chain
                                                                                                          of membership warehouses
                                                                                                          that carry quality,
                                                                                                          brand name merchandise;

 


·Halford’s—a
                                                                                                          large European retailer
                                                                                                          specializing in car
                                                                                                          parts and accessories;

 


·Petra—a
                                                                                                          large distributor who
                                                                                                          sells to a wide range
                                                                                                          of dealers;

 


·Target—one
                                                                                                          of the nation’s
                                                                                                          largest general merchandise
                                                                                                          retailers;

 


·Wal-Mart—the
                                                                                                          world’s largest
                                                                                                          mass retailer; and

 



    20
     
    

 


·Wynit—a
                                                                                                          large distributor which
                                                                                                          sells to a wide range
                                                                                                          of dealers.

 

Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation
portable products are sold through select aviation distributors around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products,
also through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmin’s largest aviation distributors include Elliott Aviation, Aircraft Spruce
& Specialty Co., Sarasota Avionics, Gulf Coast Avionics Corp. and Sportsman’s Market. Avionics distributors have the
training, equipment and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.

 

In
addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs). In the consumer market, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or
through tier 2 sourcing. These OEMs include Chrysler, Toyota, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, Ford, BMW and BMW Motorrad,
Honda, Mercedes Benz, Smart Car, Peugeot, Hyundai, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, Volvo, Bombardier, and Polaris. In November 2012, Garmin
announced the CARWINGS MINI Telematics personal navigation device for Dongfeng Nissan vehicles in China. The detachable device
is available as a dealer option in China. In September 2012, Garmin announced the next generation of its award-recognized navigation
system built into Chrysler vehicles. The new Garmin system is part of the Chrysler Uconnect 8.4N infotainment system. It is available
for 2013 model year Chrysler 300, Dodge Journey, Charger and Dart vehicles. In January 2013, Garmin unveiled its K2 platform,
which turns the car dashboard into a digital cockpit that combines digital displays, voice control, infrared buttons and smartphone
integration to provide drivers features such as navigation, vehicle diagnostics, office features, communications, music, radio
and real-time information from the Internet.  In addition,
Garmin continues to sell products and applications to Kenwood for bundling with Kenwood’s OEM products. Garmin also has
relationships with certain rental car companies including Dollar/Thrifty, Enterprise, Avis, Budget, National, Europcar, Alamo,
and Hertz (Europe). Garmin has also developed promotional relationships with certain automotive dealerships in certain countries
including BMW, Southeast Toyota, Penske, Mazda, Saab and Ford. Garmin’s products are also standard equipment on various
models of boats manufactured by Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner Boats (a division of Brunswick
Corporation), Bavaria Yacht, Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington Marine, LLC, Cigarette
Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline Boats, Ltd., Inha
Works Ltd. and Regal Marine Industries, Inc. and are optional equipment on boats manufactured by Tiara Yachts, Inc., Coastal Craft
Welded Aluminum Boats Ltd., Everglades Boats, Cantiere Nautico Cranchi S.p.A, Grand Banks Yachts, Ltd., Horizon Yacht Company,
Hampton Yachts USA, Inc., Maritimo Offshore Pty Ltd., Mastercraft/Hydra-Sport Boat Company, LLC, Yellowfin Yachts, LLC, Sea Ray
Corporation, Scout Boats, Inc., The Hinckley Company, Hunt Yachts, Inc., Zodiac Hurricane Technologies, Inc, Sea Hunter, Inc.,
Contender Boats Inc., Nautic Global Group, and Viking Yacht. In the aviation market, Garmin’s avionics are either standard
equipment or options on various models of aircraft built by AgustaWestland, Bombardier, Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Cessna
Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Construzioni Aeronautiche Tecnam S.r.l (Tecnam), DAHER-SOCATA,
Diamond Aircraft Industries, Inc., Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Hawker Beechcraft Aircraft Company, Northrop Grumman
Corporation, Pilatus Aircraft Ltd, Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest Aircraft Company, Robinson
Helicopter Company, and Vulcanair Aircraft S.p.A. 

 

Competition 

 

The market for navigation,
communications and information products is highly competitive. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the
market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and
availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas.

 



    21
     
    

 

Garmin believes that
its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (“MiTAC”)
(which distributes products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors
for outdoor product lines are Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (“Lowrance”)
and Delorme. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Nike, Inc., Polar Electro Oy, Suunto Oy,
Timex Corp., and Bryton Corp. For marine chartplotter products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Raymarine Inc.
(“Raymarine”), Furuno Electronic Company (“Furuno”), and Simrad and Lowrance (subsidiaries of Navico).
For Garmin’s fishfinder/depth sounder product lines, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Lowrance, Raymarine,
the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., and Furuno. For Garmin’s general aviation product lines, Garmin considers
its principal competitors to be Honeywell, Inc., Avidyne Corporation, CMC Electronics,L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins,
Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc., Universal Avionics Systems Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, Aspen Avionics, Dynon Avionics and
Free Flight Systems. For Garmin’s Family Radio Service and General Mobile Radio Service product line, Garmin believes that
its principal competitors are Motorola Solutions, Inc., Cobra Electronics Corporation and Midland Radio Corporation.

 

Research and Development

 

Garmin’s product
innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering
and manufacturing teams. Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 2,939 people
worldwide as of December 29, 2012. Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely
with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and
cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.
Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition
it into manufacturing.

 

Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures
on research and development over the last three fiscal years. 

 



      
    December 29,  
    December 31,  
    December 25, 

    ($'s in thousands) 
    2012  
    2011  
    2010 

    Research and development 
    $325,773  
    $298,584  
    $277,261 

    Percent of net sales 
     12.0% 
     10.8% 
     10.3%


 

Manufacturing and Operations 

 

Garmin believes that
one of its core competencies and strengths is its manufacturing capability at its Sijhih, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities,
its Olathe, Kansas facility, and its Salem, Oregon facility. Garmin believes that its vertically integrated approach has provided
it the following benefits with respect to all products other than a few select marine products (VHF radios and AIS receivers),
and our accessory products, all of which are also manufactured by one or more third parties.

 

Reduced time-to-market.
 Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmin’s products are introduced to production at an early development
stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass production begins. In this manner,
Garmin attempts to reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries.

 

Design and process
optimization. Garmin uses its manufacturing resources to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in
order to achieve higher efficiency, improved quality and yields, lower cost and better value for customers. Garmin’s ability
to fully explore product design and manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to minimize size and
weight in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and rugged.

 

Logistical agility.
Operating our own manufacturing and distribution facilities helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages
and long component lead times which are common in the electronics industry. Many products can be re-engineered to bypass component
shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can be delivered to market quickly. Garmin reacts rapidly to changes in market demand
by striving to maintain a safety stock of long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to another.
Operating our own manufacturing facilities also allows Garmin to quickly adjust the mix of product production, helping to foster
faster delivery response to the customer.

 



    22
     
    

 

Garmin’s design,
manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international
quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations in Taiwan
and Olathe have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. In addition, Garmin’s
aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.

 

Garmin International,
Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to
the ISO14001 standard. This certification recognizes that Garmin’s subsidiaries have systems and processes in place to minimize
or prevent harmful effects on the environment and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.

 

Materials

 

Although most components
essential to Garmin’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components,
including, but not limited to, microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), and certain  application-specific
integrated circuits (“ASICs”) are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects
Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including,
but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject
at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.

 

Garmin
and other participants in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries
also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition,
Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication and
consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only
one source until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component
or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured
or manufacturing capacity has increased. Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements
for strategically important components. Nevertheless, if Garmin’s supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or
existing product were delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key
manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to Garmin, Garmin’s financial condition and operating results
could be materially adversely affected. Garmin’s business and financial performance could also be adversely affected depending
on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities
from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those
suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet Garmin’s
requirements.

 

Seasonality

 

Our sales are subject
to  seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally  higher in the fourth quarter,
due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand
during the spring and summer season and the Father’s Day/graduation buying season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced
by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced
by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest.

 



    23
     
    

 

Backlog

 

Our sales are generally
of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.

 

Intellectual Property 

 

Our success and ability
to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often
relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography
technology for use in our products from various sources.

 

As of February 1, 2013,
Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 725 patents and 554 trademark registrations.  Garmin was selected as
a constituent of the 2012/2013 Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index which recognizes companies with high intellectual property value.
We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. 
Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in
its proprietary technologies. 

 

There is no assurance
that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part.
It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others
will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity
and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.

 

Regulations 

 

The telecommunications
industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with
Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be
certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmin’s products sold in Europe
are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new
products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely
affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft”
are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations
before they can be used in an aircraft.

 

Because Garmin Corporation,
one of the Company’s principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan
with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmin’s operations. The Taiwan Foreign Exchange
Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provides that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated
to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred
to as the CBC. Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from
exports of merchandise and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the
import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related
foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan
foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year. Currency conversions
within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC. The above limits
apply to remittances involving a conversion between New Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies. The CBC typically
approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review and presents legitimate business
reasons justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term
foreign debt with the CBC.

 



    24
     
    

 

Environmental Matters 

 

Garmin’s operations
are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances
and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
Currently, we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.

 

Environmental regulation of Garmin’s
products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition
of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially
responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance with current
environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot
yet be fully determined and could be substantial.

 

Garmin has implemented
multiple Environmental Management System (“EMS”) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards,
and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility,
Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.

 

Regulatory and “Green
Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing, particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly
design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established. 
Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.

 

Employees 

 

As of December 29,
2012, Garmin had 9,777 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,678 were in the United States, 70 were in Canada, 4,469
were in Taiwan, 1,102 were in Europe, and 458 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil
and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.

 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 

 

The risks described below are not the
only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or
operating results could be materially adversely affected.

 



    25
     
    

 

Risks Related to the Company

 

The demand for personal navigation
devices (PNDs)    has been reduced by replacement technologies becoming available on mobile handsets and
factory-installed systems in new autos. 

 

From 2005
to 2008, we experienced substantial growth in the automotive/mobile segment. This  has resulted in GPS/navigation
technologies being incorporated into competing devices such as mobile handsets and new automobiles through factory-installed
systems. Mobile handsets are frequently GPS-enabled and many companies are now offering navigation software for mobile
devices. The acceptance of this technology by consumers has halted our growth in this segment and  reduced margins.
Navigation systems are also becoming more prevalent as optional equipment on new automobiles. Increased navigation
penetration on mobile handsets and in new automobiles could cause further declines in sales of our portable navigation
devices and further reduced margins.

 

Our financial results are highly dependent on the automotive/mobile segment, which represents approximately
55% of our revenues, is maturing and expected to further decline in 2013.

 

We have historically
experienced substantial growth in the automotive/mobile segment of our business as the products have become mass-market consumer
electronics in both Europe and North America. This market has peaked as penetration rates increase and competing technologies
emerge. This has resulted in, and could continue to result in, lower revenues and lower earnings per share.

 

Economic conditions and uncertainty
could adversely affect our revenue and margins.

 

Our revenue and margins
depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. The current
economic weakness and constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in decreased revenue and in the future, could result
in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial
difficulties experienced by our retailer and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt
write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse affect on our results of operations.

 

Gross margins for our products may
fluctuate or erode. 

 

Gross margins on our
automotive/mobile products have declined and could further decline in the future due to price reductions in the competitive market
for navigation solutions that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate
from period to period due to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular, the average
selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that product’s life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely
primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing
products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling
prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce
any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely
manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.

 

Changes in our United States federal income tax classification
or in applicable tax law could result in adverse tax consequences to our shareholders. 

 

We do not believe
that we (or any of our non-United States subsidiaries) are currently a ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’
for United States federal income tax purposes.  We do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company.  However,
because the passive foreign investment company determination is made annually based on whether the company’s income or assets
meet certain thresholds as determined under United States federal tax principles which are based on facts and circumstances that
may be beyond our control, we cannot assure that we will not become a passive foreign investment company in the future. 
If we are a passive foreign investment company in any year, then any of our shareholders that is a United States person could
be liable to pay tax on their pro rata share of our income plus an interest charge upon some distributions by us or when that
shareholder sells our common shares at a gain.  Further, if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company in
any year in which a United States person is a shareholder, we generally will continue to be treated as a passive foreign investment
company with respect to such shareholder in all succeeding years, regardless of whether we continue to satisfy the income or asset
tests mentioned above.

 



    26
     
    

 

We do not believe
that we (or any of our non-United States subsidiaries) are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) for United States
federal income tax purposes. We do not expect to become a CFC. The CFC determination is made daily based on whether the United
States shareholders own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company. Only United States persons that own
ten percent or more of the voting power of the Company’s shares qualify as United States shareholders. If the Company were
to be classified as a CFC for an uninterrupted thirty day period in any year, the Company’s shareholders that qualify as
United States shareholders could be liable to pay US income tax at ordinary income tax rates on their pro-rata share of certain
categories of the Company’s income for the period in which the Company is classified as a CFC. As the Company cannot control
the ownership of the Company’s stock nor can the Company control which shareholders participate in the Company’s stock
buyback program, ownership changes could result that create United States shareholders which increase the risk of Garmin being
treated as a CFC.

 

Legislative proposals
have been considered in the United States within the past few years that could increase the United States tax burden of corporations
with international operations and could broaden the circumstances under which foreign corporations could be considered resident
in the United States   Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in United States or foreign tax laws,
tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. We cannot predict the outcome
of any specific legislative proposals.

 

If we are not successful in the continued
development, introduction or timely manufacture of new products, demand for our products could decrease. 

 

We expect that a significant
portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. The market for our products
is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce
new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer
needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research
and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such
products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed,
will achieve significant customer acceptance.

 

If we are unable to
successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations
would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license
new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or
may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products
to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict,
and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability
of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. From time to time we have experienced
delays in shipping certain of our new products and any future delays, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing
delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations.

 



    27
     
    

 

If we are unable to compete effectively
with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer
orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. 

 

The markets for many
of our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly
greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new
or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development,
promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins
and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

 

We rely on independent dealers and
distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. 

 

Because we sell a majority
of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory
levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in
their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient
levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted.

 

Many of our dealers
and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable
terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to
retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships
with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer.

 

Our quarterly operating results are
subject to fluctuations and seasonality. 

 

Our operating results
are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline,
the price of our stock would likely decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our selling,
general and administrative and research and development costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales. If revenues decrease
and we are unable to reduce those costs rapidly, our operating results would be negatively affected.

 

Historically, our revenues
have been weaker in the first quarter of each fiscal year as our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is
traditionally lower in this quarter. Sales of certain of our marine and automotive products tend to be higher in our second
fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products during the recreational marine, fishing, and travel season.
Sales of many of our consumer products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns
on electronic devices during the holiday season. In addition, we attempt to time our new product releases to coincide with
relatively higher consumer spending in the second and fourth fiscal quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations.

 

Our quarterly financial statements
will reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation.

 

The operation of Garmin’s
subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant
foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. dollar. The potential of volatile foreign
exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations.

 

The currencies that
create a majority of the Company’s exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. Garmin
Corporation, headquartered in Sijhih, Taiwan, uses the local currency as the functional currency. The Company translates all assets
and liabilities at year-end exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during the year. In order to minimize
the effect of the currency exchange fluctuations on our net assets, we have elected to retain most of our Taiwan subsidiary’s
cash and investments in marketable securities denominated in U.S. dollars.

 



    28
     
    

 

Nonetheless, U.S.
GAAP requires the Company at the end of each accounting period to translate into Taiwan Dollars all such U.S. Dollar denominated
assets held by our Taiwan subsidiary. This translation is required because the Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of the
subsidiary. This U.S. GAAP-mandated translation will cause us to recognize gain or loss on our financial statements as the Taiwan
Dollar/U.S. Dollar exchange rate varies. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. Because there is
minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on the Company’s operating
performance before the impact of the foreign currency translation.

 

If we do not correctly anticipate demand
for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could
have costly excess production or inventories. 

 

We have generally been
able to increase production to meet this increasing demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and will
be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support multiple
products, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products mature to the
mass market category. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations:

 


—If demand increases beyond what we forecast,
                                                          we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers
                                                          to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might
                                                          not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected
                                                          demand.

 


—Rapid increases in production levels
                                                          to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing
                                                          and supply of components and other expenses. These higher costs could
                                                          lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly,
                                                          manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins
                                                          and reduce customer satisfaction.

 


—If forecasted demand does not develop,
                                                          we could have excess production resulting in higher inventories of finished
                                                          products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs
                                                          of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand
                                                          could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing
                                                          efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins.

 

We have benefited in the past from
Taiwan government tax incentives offered on certain high technology capital investments that may not always be available. 

 

Our effective tax rate
is lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, in part because we have benefited from incentives offered in Taiwan related to
our high technology investments in Taiwan. The loss of these tax benefits could have a significant effect on our financial results
in the future.

 

We may experience unique economic and political risks associated
with companies that operate in Taiwan. 

 

Relations between Taiwan
and the People’s Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions
of Taiwan in the future could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the
market price and the liquidity of our shares. Our principal manufacturing facilities where we manufacture all of our products,
except our panel-mounted aviation products, are located in Taiwan.

 

Taiwan has a unique
international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands and all
of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic
and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated
that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by
Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC have on occasion adversely affected the market value of Taiwanese companies and could
negatively affect our operations in Taiwan in the future.

 



    29
     
    

 

Our intellectual property rights are
important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon other’s rights or are infringed upon by others.


 

We rely on a combination
of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect
our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications
to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications
will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. Moreover, even if approved,
our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of
reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage.

 

Third parties may claim
that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and
financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property
rights. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such
parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. We might not have sufficient resources
to pay for the licenses. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently
cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products.

 

We may become subject to significant
product liability costs. 

 

If our aviation products
malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane collisions or crashes could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury
or death. Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products could cause boats to run aground or cause other
wreckage, personal injury or death. If our automotive or marine products contain defects or errors in the mapping supplied by
third-party map providers or if our users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents
could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant
liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive
damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that
such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available
at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage generally will not cover awards of punitive damages and may
not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain
sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a
materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

 

We depend on our suppliers, some of
which are the sole source for specific components, and our production would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able
to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. 

 

We are dependent on
third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party
suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors.
The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components
we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs
are manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components.

 

In the past we have
experienced shortages of liquid crystal displays and other components. In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components,
the costs of such components may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are
unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, or if the costs of components
rise, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed.

 



    30
     
    

 

We depend on third party licensors
for the digital map data contained in our automotive/mobile products, and our business and/or gross margins could be harmed if
we become unable to continue licensing such mapping data or if the royalty costs for such data rise.

 

We license digital
mapping data for use in our products from various sources. There are only a limited number of suppliers of mapping data for each
geographical region. The two largest digital map suppliers are NAVTEQ Corporation and Tele Atlas N.V. NAVTEQ Corporation is owned
by Nokia Oyj and Tele Atlas N.V. is owned by TomTom N.V. Nokia and TomTom are both competitors of Garmin.

 

Although we do not
foresee difficulty in continuing to license data at favorable pricing due to the long term license extension signed between Garmin
and NAVTEQ in November 2007 (extending our NAVTEQ license agreement through 2017 with an option to extend through 2021), if we
are unable to continue licensing such mapping data and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the nature of our relationships
with NAVTEQ changes detrimentally, our ability to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed.

 

We may pursue strategic acquisitions,
investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully
identify, complete and integrate such transactions. 

 

We intend to evaluate
acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products,
or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings,
additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition,
investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to
complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all.

 

Any past or future
acquisitions could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees (including cultural differences with foreign acquisitions),
operations, and products and diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities.
Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams.
In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal
controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters, operations, personnel or products
related to acquisitions we have made in previous years or may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions,
our business could be materially harmed.

 

We may have additional tax liabilities.  

 

We are subject to
income taxes in Switzerland, the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining
our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations
where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax
estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from
our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income
tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made.

 



    31
     
    

 

Failure to obtain required certifications of our products
on a timely basis could harm our business. 

 

We have certain products,
especially in our aviation segment, that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example,
FAA certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type certificated aircraft.
To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources.
An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce
new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers’ ability to sell airplanes. Therefore, such inabilities
or delays could adversely affect our operating results.  In addition, we cannot assure you that our certified products
will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results.

 

Our business may suffer if we are not
able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. 

 

Our future success
depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative
personnel. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. We do not have key man life
insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services
of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel
we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in some recent years there has been a nationwide
shortage of qualified electrical engineers and software engineers who are necessary for us to design and develop new products,
and therefore, it has sometimes been challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees,
we may not be able to maintain and expand our business.

 

There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability
to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. 

 

We are a Swiss company
and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be
difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts
of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the
civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original
actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.

 

A shut down of U.S. airspace or imposition
of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business.

 

Following the September
11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the FAA ordered all aircraft operating in the U.S. to be grounded for several days. In addition
to this shut down of U.S. airspace, the general aviation industry was further impacted by the additional restrictions implemented
by the FAA on those flights that fly utilizing Visual Flight Rules (VFR). The FAA restricted VFR flight inside 30 enhanced Class
B (a 20-25 mile radius around the 30 largest metropolitan areas in the USA) airspace areas. The Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association
(AOPA) estimated that these restrictions affected approximately 41,800 general aviation aircraft based at 282 airports inside
the 30 enhanced Class B airspace areas. The AOPA estimates that approximately 90% of all general aviation flights are conducted
VFR, and that only 15% of general aviation pilots are current to fly utilizing Instrument Flight Rules (IFR).

 

The shutdown of U.S.
airspace following September 11, 2001 caused reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our
products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facility to our distribution facility in Olathe, Kansas, thereby adversely affecting
our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors.

 

Any future shut down
of U.S. airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial
results.

 



    32
     
    

 

Many of our products rely on the Global
Positioning System.

 

The Global Positioning
System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The
satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense.
The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground
support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites
were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate.
However, of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 12 years.

 

To repair damaged or
malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable,
there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites
may impair the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites
and ground control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access
to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates.

 

GPS is operated by
the U. S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however if the policy were to change, and GPS
were no longer supported by the U. S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations, and financial condition.

 

Some of our products
also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System
(WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS).
Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby
impacting our markets.

 

Any of the foregoing
factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products
based on competing technologies.

 

Any reallocation or repurposing of
radio frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference
could harm our business. 

 

Our Global Positioning
System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Government’s Global
Positioning System satellites. The Global Positioning System operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for
radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications
Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations
that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. 
Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used.  In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration share responsibility for radio frequency allocations
and spectrum usage regulations.

 

Any ITU or national
reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications
of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products
and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers.

 

Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties
caused by war or terrorism.

 

Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially
any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism,
may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have
an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial
condition.

 



    33
     
    

 





 
 

Privacy concerns relating to our technology could damage
our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and applications.

 

Concerns about our
practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information, user location information or other
privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and operating results. While we strive to comply with all
applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to
comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose users and customers,
which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.

 

Regulatory authorities
around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the
interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in
flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If
so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could
have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial
costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.

 

Security breaches and other disruptions, including as
a result of cyber attacks, could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and
reputation to suffer.

 

In the ordinary course
of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and
that of our customers and suppliers, and some personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our facilities
and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations. Despite
our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to
employee error or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed,
publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings,
disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect our business.

 

We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks
related to climate change.

 

Climate change is receiving increasing
attention worldwide.  Some scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases,
including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions.

 

Various
regulatory and legislative measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in different phases of implementation or discussion.
In the aftermath of its 2009 “endangerment finding” that greenhouse gas emissions pose a threat to human health and
welfare, the Environmental Protection Agency has begun to regulate greenhouse gas
emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act.   At the federal legislative level, Congressional passage
of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program,
does not appear likely at this time, although it could be adopted at a future date. It is also possible that Congress may pass
alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable
energy and energy efficiency, which could increase the cost of doing business.

 

Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations
will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

 



    34
     
    

 

Risks Relating
to Our Shares

 

The volatility of our stock price could
adversely affect investment in our common shares.

 

The market price of
our common shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2012, the price of our common shares ranged from a
low of $35.84 to a high of $49.33. A variety of factors could cause the price of our common shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially,
including:

 


·announcements and rumors of developments related to our business,
our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete;


·quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results;


·the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components,
such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products;


·general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations
in interest rates;


·announcements of technological innovations;


·new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;


·product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions;


·developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and
litigation;


·developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers;


·research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage
houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; and


·any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan
or significant markets where we sell our products.

 

In addition, in recent
years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price
fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future
could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.

 

Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over
us.

 

As of January 9, 2013,
current members and former members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with members of their families
and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 40.48% of
our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring
shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring
or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common
shares.

 

The rights of our shareholders are governed
by Swiss law.

 

The rights of our shareholders
are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.’s articles of association and organizational regulations. The rights of shareholders
under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law
allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders’ meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors
without approval of a shareholders’ meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital
and must be renewed at a shareholders’ meeting at least every two years for it to continue to be available. Additionally,
subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive
rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide
as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions.
Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority
in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders
at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility,
and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders.

 



    35
     
    

 

We may not be able to make distributions
or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax.

 

If
we are unable to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or to pay dividends,
if any, out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal
withholding tax at a rate of 35%. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal
Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the
Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld
in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least
10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution
in the form of a par value reduction or a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves is not subject to Swiss withholding
tax. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value or a dividend out of qualifying
capital contribution reserves, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that
Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders,
in particular as a result of distributions out of qualifying capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate
law or other restrictions. There are currently legislative projects pending in Swiss Parliament and the Swiss federal administration
that – depending on their final form – may limit the distribution of qualifying capital contribution reserves. In addition,
over the long term, the amount of par value and qualifying capital contribution reserves available for us to use for par value
reductions or dividends will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or to pay a dividend
out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Swiss withholding
taxes.

 

Under current Swiss
tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss
withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. However, the portion
of the repurchase price that is attributed to qualifying capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject
to the Swiss withholding tax. No partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered if the shares are not
repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares. However, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years,
the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six year period.

 

We may follow a share
repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a "second trading line" on the SIX Swiss Exchange
in which Swiss institutional investors buy shares on the open market and sell these shares to us and are generally able to receive
a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase
shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes if and to the extent that the repurchase
of shares is made out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves. No withholding tax would be applicable if and to the extent
that qualifying capital contribution reserves are attributable to the share repurchase.

 

Item 1B