Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our
    international operations.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


 


    Set forth below are: (1) the names and ages of all
    executive officers of the Company at February 10, 2011,
    (2) all positions with the Company presently held by each
    such person and (3) the positions held by, and principal
    areas of responsibility of, each such person during the last
    five years.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name


 


    Position(s) Held


 


    Age



 






    Richard J. Kramer



 


    Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer
    and President


 


    47




    Mr. Kramer joined Goodyear in March 2000 as Vice
    President — Corporate Finance, serving in that
    capacity as Goodyear’s principal accounting officer until
    August 2002, when he was elected Vice President,
    Finance — North American Tire. In August 2003, he was
    named Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and
    Restructuring, and in June 2004 was elected Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Kramer was
    elected President, North American Tire in March 2007 and
    continued to serve as Chief Financial Officer until August 2007.
    In June 2009, Mr. Kramer was elected Chief Operating
    Officer and continued to serve as President, North American Tire
    until February 16, 2010. He was elected Chief Executive
    Officer and President effective April 13, 2010 and Chairman
    effective October 1, 2010. Mr. Kramer is the principal
    executive officer of the Company.




 


 


 


 


 




    Curt J. Andersson


 


    President, North American Tire


 


    49




    Mr. Andersson was named President, North American Tire on
    February 16, 2010. Mr. Andersson is the executive
    officer responsible for Goodyear’s operations in North
    America. Prior to joining Goodyear, Mr. Andersson was
    President of the Crouse-Hinds division of Cooper Industries plc,
    a global manufacturer of electrical products, from 2003 until
    February 2010.




 


 


 


 


 




    Arthur de Bok


 


    President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire


 


    48




    After joining Goodyear on December 31, 2001, Mr. de Bok
    served in various managerial positions in Goodyear’s
    European operations. Mr. de Bok was named President, European
    Union Tire in September 2005. Effective February 1, 2008,
    Mr. de Bok became President, Europe, Middle East and Africa
    Tire, the new operating segment created by the combination of
    Goodyear’s European Union and Eastern Europe business
    units. Mr. de Bok is the executive officer responsible for
    Goodyear’s operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.




 


 


 


 


 




    Jaime Cohen Szulc


 


    President, Latin American Tire


 


    48




    Mr. Szulc joined Goodyear in September 2010 and became
    President, Latin American Tire in December 2010, succeeding
    Eduardo Fortunato upon his retirement. Mr. Szulc is the
    executive officer responsible for Goodyear’s operations in
    Mexico, Central America and South America. Prior to joining
    Goodyear, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing
    Officer of Levi Strauss & Co., a global apparel
    company, from August 2009 until August 2010. He was also
    previously employed by Eastman Kodak Company, a global
    manufacturer of imaging technology products, in a variety of
    roles of increasing responsibility from 1998 until March 2009,
    including most recently as Managing Director, Global Customer
    Operations and Chief Operating Officer for the Consumer Digital
    Group and Corporate Vice President.




 


 


 


 


 




    Pierre E. Cohade


 


    President, Asia Pacific Tire


 


    49




    Mr. Cohade joined Goodyear as President, Asia Pacific Tire
    in October 2004. Mr. Cohade is the executive officer
    responsible for Goodyear’s operations in Asia, Australia
    and the Western Pacific.




 


 


 


 


 




    Darren R. Wells


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


 


    45




    Mr. Wells joined Goodyear as Vice President and Treasurer
    in August 2002. He was named Senior Vice President, Business
    Development and Treasurer in May 2005, was named Senior Vice
    President, Finance and Strategy in March 2007, and was named
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October
    2008. Mr. Wells is Goodyear’s principal financial
    officer.




 


 


 


 


 




    Damon J. Audia


 


    Senior Vice President, Finance, Asia Pacific Region


 


    40




    Mr. Audia joined Goodyear as Assistant Treasurer, Capital
    Markets in December 2004 and was elected Vice President and
    Treasurer in March 2007. Mr. Audia was elected Senior Vice
    President, Finance and Treasurer in December 2008 and Senior
    Vice President, Finance, Asia Pacific Region in June 2010.
    Mr. Audia is the executive officer responsible for the
    finance activities of Goodyear’s operations in Asia,
    Australia and the Western Pacific.






    
    10



Table of Contents








     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name


 


    Position(s) Held


 


    Age



 





    David L. Bialosky


 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


 


    53




    Mr. Bialosky joined Goodyear as Senior Vice President,
    General Counsel and Secretary in September 2009. He is
    Goodyear’s chief legal officer. Prior to joining Goodyear,
    Mr. Bialosky served in legal positions of increasing
    responsibility at TRW Inc., TRW Automotive Inc. and TRW
    Automotive Holdings Corp. for 20 years, including most
    recently as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of TRW Automotive Holdings Corp., a global supplier of
    automotive parts, from April 2004 until September 2009.




 


 


 


 


 




    John D. Fish


 


    Senior Vice President, Global Operations


 


    53




    Mr. Fish joined Goodyear as Senior Vice President, Global
    Operations in October 2009. He is the executive officer
    responsible for Goodyear’s global manufacturing and related
    supply chain activities. Prior to joining Goodyear,
    Mr. Fish served in operations, manufacturing and supply
    chain positions of increasing responsibility at General Electric
    Company for almost 29 years, including most recently as
    Vice President of consumer global supply chain for GE’s
    Consumer and Industrial business from 2004 until October 2009.




 


 


 


 


 




    Jean-Claude Kihn


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer


 


    51




    Mr. Kihn served in various managerial and technical posts,
    most recently as General Director of Goodyear’s Technical
    Center in Akron, Ohio, prior to his election as Senior Vice
    President and Chief Technical Officer in January 2008.
    Mr. Kihn is the executive officer responsible for
    Goodyear’s research and tire technology development,
    engineering and product quality worldwide. He has been a
    Goodyear employee since 1988.




 


 


 


 


 




    Joseph B. Ruocco


 


    Senior Vice President, Human Resources


 


    51




    Mr. Ruocco joined Goodyear as Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources in August 2008. Mr. Ruocco is the executive
    officer responsible for Goodyear’s human resources
    activities worldwide. Prior to joining Goodyear, Mr. Ruocco
    served in human resources positions of increasing responsibility
    at General Electric Company for 23 years, including as Vice
    President, Human Resources, GE Consumer and Industrial from
    December 2003 to December 2006, and Vice President, Human
    Resources, GE Industrial from December 2006 to July 2008.




 


 


 


 


 




    Charles L. Sinclair


 


    Senior Vice President, Global Communications


 


    59




    Mr. Sinclair served in various public relations and
    communications positions until 2002, when he was named Vice
    President, Public Relations and Communications for North
    American Tire. In June 2003, he was named Senior Vice President,
    Global Communications. Mr. Sinclair is the executive
    officer responsible for Goodyear’s worldwide communications
    activities. He has been a Goodyear employee since 1984.




 


 


 


 


 




    Thomas A. Connell


 


    Vice President and Controller


 


    62




    Mr. Connell joined Goodyear in September 2003 and served as
    Vice President and Controller until February 2008.
    Mr. Connell was elected Vice President and Chief
    Information Officer effective March 1, 2008 and was elected
    Vice President and Controller in December 2008. He continued to
    serve as Chief Information Officer until April 2010.
    Mr. Connell is Goodyear’s principal accounting
    officer. Mr. Connell will retire effective March 1,
    2011.




 


 


 


 


 




    Isabel H. Jasinowski


 


    Vice President, Government Relations


 


    61




    Ms. Jasinowski served in various government relations posts
    until she was appointed Vice President of Government Relations
    in 1995. In April 2001, Ms. Jasinowski was elected Vice
    President, Government Relations, serving as the executive
    officer primarily responsible for Goodyear’s governmental
    relations and public policy activities. She has been a Goodyear
    employee since 1981.




 


 


 


 


 




    Stephen R. McClellan


 


    President, Consumer Tires, North American Tire


 


    45




    Mr. McClellan served in various finance and retail
    management positions with Goodyear until he was named President
    of Wingfoot Commercial Tire Systems in December 2001. He was
    appointed Vice President, Goodyear Commercial Tire Systems in
    September 2003 and was named President, Consumer Tires,
    North American Tire in August 2008. Mr. McClellan is
    the executive officer responsible for the business activities of
    Goodyear’s consumer tire business in North America. He has
    been a Goodyear employee since 1987.






    
    11



Table of Contents








     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name


 


    Position(s) Held


 


    Age



 





    Richard J. Noechel


 


    Vice President, Finance, North American Tire


 


    42




    Mr. Noechel joined Goodyear in October 2004 as Assistant
    Controller. He was Chief Financial Officer of Goodyear’s
    South Pacific Tyre subsidiary in Australia from April 2006 to
    February 2008 and was Vice President and Controller from
    March 1, 2008 until his election as Vice President,
    Finance, North American Tire in December 2008. Mr. Noechel
    is the executive officer responsible for the finance activities
    of Goodyear’s operations in North America. Mr. Noechel
    will become Vice President and Controller effective
    March 1, 2011.




 


 


 


 


 




    Mark W. Purtilar


 


    Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer


 


    50




    Mr. Purtilar joined Goodyear as Vice President and Chief
    Procurement Officer in September 2007. He is the executive
    officer responsible for Goodyear’s global procurement
    activities. Prior to joining Goodyear, Mr. Purtilar was
    vice president of global procurement for commercial vehicle
    systems at ArvinMeritor Automotive Inc., a global supplier of
    automotive parts, from 2004 until September 2007.




 


 


 


 


 




    Michel Rzonzef


 


    President, Eastern Europe, Middle East and


 


    47




 


 


    Africa Countries, Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire


 


 




    Mr. Rzonzef served in various managerial, sales and
    marketing, and engineering posts until December 2002 when he was
    appointed Vice President, Sales and Marketing for our former
    Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire strategic business
    unit. Effective February 1, 2008, Mr. Rzonzef was
    appointed President, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa
    Countries within our Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire
    strategic business unit. He has been a Goodyear employee since
    1988.








 


    No family relationship exists between any of the above executive
    officers or between the executive officers and any director of
    the Company.


 


    Each executive officer is elected by the Board of Directors of
    the Company at its annual meeting to a term of one year or until
    his or her successor is duly elected. In those instances where
    the person is elected at other than an annual meeting, such
    person’s term will expire at the next annual meeting.




    
    12



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    You should carefully consider the risks described below and
    other information contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    when considering an investment decision with respect to our
    securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also
    impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in
    the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business,
    results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be
    materially adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading
    price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or
    part of your investment.


 



    If we
    do not achieve projected savings from our cost reduction
    initiatives, including our USW collective bargaining agreement,
    or successfully implement other strategic initiatives our
    operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be
    materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business continues to be impacted by trends that have
    negatively affected the tire industry in general, as the global
    economy continued its recovery from the recessionary economic
    conditions that existed in many parts of the world during 2008
    and 2009, particularly in North America and Europe.  These
    negative trends include rapidly rising raw material and energy
    costs, wage inflation in emerging markets, continued pressure
    from our unfunded pension obligations, and the devaluation of
    the currency and economic weakness in Venezuela.  In addition,
    global tire industry demand, while improving, continues to be
    below pre-recessionary levels in North America and remains hard
    to predict, especially for OE production. If these overall
    trends continue or worsen, then our operational and financial
    condition could be adversely affected.  Unlike most other tire
    manufacturers, we also face the continuing burden of legacy
    pension costs.


 


    In order to offset the impact of these trends, we continue to
    implement various cost reduction initiatives and expect to
    achieve $1.0 billion in aggregate gross cost savings from
    2010 through 2012 through our cost savings plan, which includes
    expected savings from continuous improvement initiatives,
    including savings under our USW agreement described below,
    increased low-cost country sourcing, high-cost capacity
    reductions, initiatives to reduce raw material costs and reduced
    selling, administrative and general expenses.


 


    We entered into a four-year contract with the USW in September
    2009 for our seven USW-represented tire plants in the United
    States. The contract enhances the competitiveness of those
    plants through improvements in productivity, wage and benefit
    savings and added flexibility. These changes are expected to
    provide us with cost savings of approximately $215 million
    over the term of the contract. Combined with savings realized
    through pre-bargain agreements to reduce staffing levels at five
    plants, we expect to realize $555 million in total savings
    over the term of the agreements. If we fail to successfully
    implement the improvements in productivity and flexibility
    permitted by our USW agreements, we may be unable to realize all
    of the expected cost savings and our competitive position may be
    harmed. In turn, our results of operations and financial
    condition could be materially adversely affected.


 


    In December 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our
    European and Latin American farm tire businesses. The European
    portion of the transaction is subject to the exercise of a put
    option by us following completion of a social plan related to
    the previously announced discontinuation of consumer tire
    production at one of our facilities in Amiens, France and
    required consultation with various works councils. Significant
    delays in the completion of the social plan could prevent us
    from exercising the put option.


 


    We have announced other important strategic initiatives, such as
    increasing our low-cost manufacturing capacity, reducing our
    high-cost manufacturing capacity,  such as our plan to close our
    Union City, Tennessee manu-facturing facility, increasing sales
    in emerging markets and implementing new enterprise resource
    planning systems. The failure to implement successfully our
    important strategic initiatives may materially adversely affect
    our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 


    Our performance is also dependent on our ability to continue to
    improve the proportion, or mix, of higher margin tires we sell.
    In order to continue this improvement, we must be successful in
    marketing and selling products that offer higher margins such as
    the Assurance, Fuel Max, Eagle and Fortera lines of tires and in
    developing additional higher margin tires that achieve broad
    market acceptance in North America and elsewhere. Shifts in
    consumer demand away from higher margin tires could materially
    adversely affect our business.




    
    13



Table of Contents





    We cannot assure you that our cost reduction and other
    initiatives will be successful. If not, we may not be able to
    achieve or sustain future profitability, which would impair our
    ability to meet our debt and other obligations and would
    otherwise negatively affect our financial condition, results of
    operations and liquidity.


 



    Higher
    raw material and energy costs may materially adversely affect
    our operating results and financial condition.


 


    Raw material costs increased significantly over the past few
    years, and may continue to do so, driven by increases in prices
    of natural rubber and petrochemical-based commodities. Market
    conditions or contractual obligations may prevent us from
    passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely
    price increases. Additionally, higher raw material costs around
    the world may offset our efforts to reduce our cost structure.
    As a result, higher raw material and energy costs could result
    in declining margins and operating results and adversely affect
    our financial condition. The volatility of raw material costs
    may cause our margins, operating results and liquidity to
    fluctuate.


 



    Our
    pension plans are significantly underfunded and, in the future,
    the underfunding levels of our pension plans and our pension
    expense could materially increase.


 


    Many of our U.S. and our
    non-U.S. employees
    participate in defined benefit pension plans, although effective
    December 31, 2008 we froze our U.S. salaried pension
    plans and effective August 29, 2009 we closed participation
    in our U.S. hourly pension plans for employees covered by
    the USW master labor contract. Over time, we have experienced
    periods of declines in interest rates and pension asset values.
    As a result, our pension plans are significantly underfunded.
    Further declines in interest rates or the market values of the
    securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could
    materially increase the underfunded status of our plans in 2011
    and beyond and affect the level and timing of required
    contributions in 2012 and beyond. The unfunded amount of the
    projected benefit obligation for our U.S. and
    non-U.S. pension
    plans was $1,927 million and $622 million,
    respectively, at December 31, 2010, and we currently
    estimate that we will be required to make contributions to our
    funded U.S. pension plans of approximately
    $200 million to $225 million in 2011, and
    $400 million to $450 million in 2012. The current
    underfunded status of our pension plans will, and a further
    material increase in the underfunded status of the plans would,
    significantly increase our required contributions and pension
    expense, which could impair our ability to achieve or sustain
    future profitability.


 



    We
    face significant global competition and our market share could
    decline.


 


    New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions
    throughout the world. We compete with other tire manufacturers
    on the basis of product design, performance, price and terms,
    reputation, warranty terms, customer service and consumer
    convenience. On a worldwide basis, we have two major
    competitors, Bridgestone (based in Japan) and Michelin (based in
    France), that have large shares of the markets of the countries
    in which they are based and are aggressively seeking to maintain
    or improve their worldwide market share. Other significant
    competitors include Continental, Cooper, Hankook, Kumho,
    Pirelli, Toyo, Yokohama and various regional tire manufacturers.
    Our competitors produce significant numbers of tires in low-cost
    countries. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in
    significant part, on our ability to continue to innovate and
    manufacture the types of tires demanded by consumers, and to
    reduce costs by such means as reducing excess and high-cost
    capacity, leveraging global purchasing, improving productivity,
    eliminating redundancies and increasing production at low-cost
    supply sources. If we are unable to compete successfully, our
    market share may decline, materially adversely affecting our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Our
    long term ability to meet our obligations and to repay maturing
    indebtedness may be dependent on our ability to access capital
    markets in the future and to improve our operating
    results.


 


    The adequacy of our liquidity depends on our ability to achieve
    an appropriate combination of operating improvements, financing
    from third parties and access to capital markets. We may need to
    undertake additional financing actions in the capital markets in
    order to ensure that our future liquidity requirements are
    addressed. These actions may include the issuance of additional
    debt or equity.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    Our access to the capital markets cannot be assured and is
    dependent on, among other things, the ability and willingness of
    financial institutions to extend credit on terms that are
    acceptable to us, or to honor future draws on our existing lines
    of credit, and the degree of success we have in implementing our
    cost reduction plans and improving the results of our North
    American Tire segment. Future liquidity requirements, or our
    inability to access cash deposits or make draws on our lines of
    credit, also may make it necessary for us to incur additional
    debt. A substantial portion of our assets is subject to liens
    securing our indebtedness. As a result, we are limited in our
    ability to pledge our remaining assets as security for
    additional secured indebtedness.


 


    Our inability to access the capital markets or incur additional
    debt in the future could have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity and operations, and could require us to consider
    further measures, including deferring planned capital
    expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling
    additional assets and restructuring existing debt.


 



    Financial
    difficulties, work stoppages, supply disruptions or economic
    conditions affecting our major OE customers, dealers or
    suppliers could harm our business.


 


    The recovery from the recessionary economic conditions that
    existed in many parts of the world during 2008 and 2009,
    particularly in North America and Europe, has positively
    impacted our results of operations.  However, global tire
    industry demand, while improving, continues to be below
    pre-recessionary levels in North America and remains hard to
    predict, especially for OE production.


 


    Although sales to our OE customers account for less than 20% of
    our net sales, demand for our products by OE customers and
    production levels at our facilities are directly related to
    automotive vehicle production.  We may experience future
    declines in sales volume due to declines in new vehicle sales,
    the discontinuation or sale of certain OE brands, platforms or
    programs, or weakness in the demand for replacement tires, which
    could result in us incurring under-absorbed fixed costs at our
    production facilities or slowing the rate at which we are able
    to recover those costs.


 


    Automotive production can also be affected by labor relation
    issues, financial difficulties or supply disruptions.  Our OE
    customers could experience production disruptions resulting from
    their own or supplier labor, financial or supply difficulties.
    Such events may cause an OE customer to reduce or suspend
    vehicle production.  As a result, an OE customer could halt or
    significantly reduce purchases of our products, which would harm
    our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 


    In addition, the bankruptcy, restructuring or consolidation of
    one or more of our major OE customers, dealers or suppliers
    could result in the write-off of accounts receivable, a
    reduction in purchases of our products or a supply disruption to
    our facilities, which could negatively affect our results of
    operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 



    Our
    capital expenditures may not be adequate to maintain our
    competitive position and may not be implemented in a timely or
    cost-effective manner.


 


    Our capital expenditures are limited by our liquidity and
    capital resources and the amount we have available for capital
    spending is limited by the need to pay our other expenses and to
    maintain adequate cash reserves and borrowing capacity to meet
    unexpected demands that may arise. We believe that our ratio of
    capital expenditures to sales is lower than the comparable ratio
    for our principal competitors.


 


    Productivity improvements through process re-engineering, design
    efficiency and manufacturing cost improvements may be required
    to offset potential increases in labor and raw material costs
    and competitive price pressures. In addition, as part of our
    strategy to increase the percentage of tires that are produced
    at our lower-cost production facilities and to increase our
    capacity to produce higher margin tires, we may need to
    modernize or expand our facilities. For example, we are
    currently undertaking significant expansion and modernization
    projects at our manufacturing facilities in Lawton, Oklahoma and
    Chile.  We are also making a significant investment in a new
    manufacturing facility in China, which is scheduled to begin
    tire production in 2011.


 


     We may not have sufficient resources to implement planned
    capital expenditures with minimal disruption to our existing
    manufacturing operations, or within desired time frames and
    budgets. Any disruption to our operations,





    
    15



Table of Contents





    delay in implementing capital improvements or unexpected costs
    may materially adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.


 


    If we are unable to make sufficient capital expenditures, or to
    maximize the efficiency of the capital expenditures we do make,
    we may be unable to achieve productivity improvements, which may
    harm our competitive position. In addition, plant modernizations
    may temporarily disrupt our manufacturing operations and lead to
    temporary increases in our costs.


 



    If we
    fail to extend or renegotiate our primary collective bargaining
    contracts with our labor unions as they expire from time to
    time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike
    or other work stoppage or interruption, our business, financial
    position, results of operations and liquidity could be
    materially adversely affected.


 


    We are a party to collective bargaining contracts with our labor
    unions, which represent a significant number of our employees.
    Approximately 19,000 of our employees outside of the United
    States are covered by union contracts that have expired or are
    expiring in 2011 primarily in Brazil, France, Germany,
    Luxembourg, Poland, Turkey, and Venezuela. Although we believe
    that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no
    assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully
    extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as
    they expire from time to time. If we fail to extend or
    renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes
    with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a
    strike or other work stoppage or interruption, we could
    experience a significant disruption of, or inefficiencies in,
    our operations or incur higher labor costs, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial position,
    results of operations and liquidity.


 



    We
    have a substantial amount of debt, which could restrict our
    growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise
    materially adversely affect our financial health.


 


    We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31,
    2010, our debt (including capital leases) on a consolidated
    basis was approximately $4.7 billion. Our substantial
    amount of debt and other obligations could have important
    consequences. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;








     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development,
    acquisitions or general corporate requirements;








     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;








     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we would need to dedicate a substantial
    portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;








     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate; and








     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors.





 


    The agreements governing our debt, including our credit
    agreements, limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring
    additional debt and we may incur a significant amount of
    additional debt in the future, including additional secured
    debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, our
    ability to satisfy our debt obligations may become more limited.


 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our
    debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and
    operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability
    to implement our cost reduction initiatives and other
    strategies, prevailing economic conditions and certain
    financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our
    cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our
    debt service and other obligations, including required pension
    contributions, we may be forced to reduce or delay expansion
    plans and capital expenditures, sell material assets or
    operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt.
    We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow
    and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our debt
    obligations when they become due. We cannot assure you that we
    would be able to dispose of material assets or operations or
    restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even
    if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on
    terms that are acceptable to us.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    Any
    failure to be in compliance with any material provision or
    covenant of our debt instruments, or a material reduction in the
    borrowing base under our revolving credit facility, could have a
    material adverse effect on our liquidity and
    operations.


 


    The indentures and other agreements governing our secured credit
    facilities, senior unsecured notes and our other outstanding
    indebtedness impose significant operating and financial
    restrictions on us. These restrictions may affect our ability to
    operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage
    of potential business opportunities as they arise. These
    restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional debt or issue redeemable preferred stock;








     
        • 

    
    pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments or
    investments;








     
        • 

    
    incur liens;








     
        • 

    
    sell assets;








     
        • 

    
    incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay
    dividends to us;








     
        • 

    
    enter into affiliate transactions;








     
        • 

    
    engage in sale/leaseback transactions; and








     
        • 

    
    engage in certain mergers or consolidations or transfers of
    substantially all of our assets.





 


    Availability under our first lien revolving credit facility is
    subject to a borrowing base, which is based on eligible accounts
    receivable and inventory. To the extent that our eligible
    accounts receivable and inventory decline, our borrowing base
    will decrease and the availability under that facility may
    decrease below its stated amount. In addition, if at any time
    the amount of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit under
    that facility exceeds the borrowing base, we are required to
    prepay borrowings
    and/or cash
    collateralize letters of credit sufficient to eliminate the
    excess.


 


    Our ability to comply with these covenants or to maintain our
    borrowing base may be affected by events beyond our control,
    including deteriorating economic conditions, and these events
    could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or
    alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We
    cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative
    financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms
    acceptable to us.


 


    A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in
    any of our existing or future financing agreements, including
    the financial covenants in our secured credit facilities, could
    result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a
    default could allow the lenders under our financing agreements,
    if the agreements so provide, to discontinue lending, to
    accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a
    cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies,
    and/or to
    declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and
    payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any
    commitments they have to provide us with further funds. If any
    of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have
    sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of
    obligations that become due as a result of any such
    acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or
    alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated
    obligations. Even if we obtain additional or alternative
    financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that
    would be acceptable to us.


 


    We cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in
    compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the
    future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain
    waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.


 



    Our
    international operations have certain risks that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and
    liquidity.


 


    We have manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout the
    world. Our international operations are subject to certain
    inherent risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    exposure to local economic conditions;








     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States;








     
        • 

    
    hostility from local populations and insurrections;








     
        • 

    
    adverse currency exchange controls;








     
        • 

    
    withholding taxes and restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign
    investment and earnings;








     
        • 

    
    labor regulations;







    
    17



Table of Contents









    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    expropriations of property;








     
        • 

    
    the potential instability of foreign governments;








     
        • 

    
    risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements
    with governmental authorities;








     
        • 

    
    export and import restrictions; and








     
        • 

    
    other changes in laws or government policies.





 


    The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on
    us vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Certain
    regions, including Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and
    Africa, are inherently more economically and politically
    volatile and as a result, our business units that operate in
    these regions could be subject to significant fluctuations in
    sales and operating income from quarter to quarter. Because a
    significant percentage of our operating income in recent years
    has come from these regions, adverse fluctuations in the
    operating results in these regions could have a disproportionate
    impact on our results of operations in future periods.


 


    For example, since 2003, Venezuela has imposed currency exchange
    controls that fix the exchange rate between the Venezuelan
    bolivar fuerte and the U.S. dollar and restrict the ability
    to exchange bolivares fuertes for dollars. These restrictions
    have delayed and limited our ability to pay third-party and
    affiliated suppliers and to otherwise repatriate funds from
    Venezuela, and may continue to do so, which could materially
    adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. In
    addition, if we are unable to pay these suppliers in a timely
    manner, they may cease supplying us. Venezuela has also imposed
    restrictions on the importation of certain raw materials. If
    these suppliers cease supplying us or we are unable to import
    necessary raw materials, we may need to reduce or halt
    production in Venezuela, which could materially adversely affect
    our results of operations.


 


    On January 8, 2010, Venezuela established a two-tier
    exchange rate structure for essential and non-essential goods.
    For essential goods the official exchange rate was 2.6 bolivares
    fuertes to the U.S. dollar and for non-essential goods the
    official exchange rate was 4.3 bolivares fuertes to the U.S.
    dollar.  As announced by the Venezuelan government in December
    2010, on January 1, 2011, the two-tier exchange rate
    structure was eliminated and the official exchange rate for
    essential goods cannot be used for our unsettled amounts at
    December 31, 2010.  Effective January 1, 2011, the
    official exchange rate of 4.3 bolivares fuertes to the U.S.
    dollar was established for substantially all goods.


 


    The future results of our Venezuelan operations will be affected
    by many factors, including our ability to take actions to
    mitigate the effect of the devaluations, further actions of the
    Venezuelan government, economic conditions in Venezuela such as
    inflation and consumer spending, and the availability of raw
    materials, utilities and energy. Goodyear Venezuela contributes
    a significant portion of the sales and operating income of our
    Latin American Tire segment. As a result, any disruption of
    Goodyear Venezuela’s operations or of our ability to pay
    suppliers or repatriate funds from Venezuela could have a
    material adverse impact on the future performance of our Latin
    American Tire segment and could materially adversely affect our
    results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 


    For further information regarding our operations in Venezuela,
    see “Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Overview.”


 



    We
    have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may
    materially adversely affect our operating results.


 


    The financial position and results of operations of our
    international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various
    foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at
    the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial
    statements. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against
    these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on our
    reported sales and operating margin (and conversely, the
    weakening of the U.S. dollar against these foreign
    currencies has a positive impact). For the year ended
    December 31, 2010, foreign currency translation unfavorably
    affected sales by $12 million and unfavorably affected
    segment operating income by $45 million compared to the
    year ended December 31, 2009. The volatility of currency
    exchange rates may materially adversely affect our operating
    results.




    
    18



Table of Contents






    Our
    variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk,
    which could cause our debt service obligations to increase
    significantly.


 


    Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and
    expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our
    debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would
    increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same,
    which would require us to use more of our available cash to
    service our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will
    be able to enter into swap agreements or other hedging
    arrangements in the future, or that existing or future hedging
    arrangements will offset increases in interest rates. As of
    December 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.0 billion
    of variable rate debt outstanding.


 



    We
    have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our operating
    income fluctuates disproportionately with changes in our net
    sales.


 


    We operate with significant operating and financial leverage.
    Significant portions of our manufacturing, selling,
    administrative and general expenses are fixed costs that neither
    increase nor decrease proportionately with sales. In addition, a
    significant portion of our interest expense is fixed. There can
    be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our fixed costs
    proportionately in response to a decline in our net sales and
    therefore our competitiveness could be significantly impacted.
    As a result, a decline in our net sales would result in a higher
    percentage decline in our income from operations and net income.


 



    We may
    incur significant costs in connection with asbestos
    claims.


 


    We are among many defendants named in legal proceedings
    involving claims of individuals relating to alleged exposure to
    asbestos. At December 31, 2010, approximately 83,700 claims
    were pending against us alleging various asbestos-related
    personal injuries purported to have resulted from alleged
    exposure to asbestos in certain rubber encapsulated products or
    aircraft braking systems manufactured by us in the past or to
    asbestos in certain of our facilities. We expect that additional
    claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate
    liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is
    subject to various uncertainties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the number of claims that are brought in the future;








     
        • 

    
    the costs of defending and settling these claims;








     
        • 

    
    the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers;








     
        • 

    
    the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to
    pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we
    have historically settled claims;








     
        • 

    
    the risk of changes in the litigation environment or Federal and
    state law governing the compensation of asbestos
    claimants; and








     
        • 

    
    the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may
    increase our costs.





 


    Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is
    possible that we may incur a material amount of cost in excess
    of our current reserve for such claims. In addition, if any of
    the foregoing risks were to materialize, the resulting costs
    could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial
    position and results of operations in future periods. For
    further information regarding our asbestos liabilities, refer to
    the Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements, No. 19,
    Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.


 



    We may
    be required to provide letters of credit or post cash collateral
    if we are subject to a significant adverse judgment or if we are
    unable to obtain surety bonds, which may have a material adverse
    effect on our liquidity.


 


    We are subject to various legal proceedings. If we wish to
    appeal any future adverse judgment in any of these proceedings,
    we may be required to post an appeal bond with the relevant
    court. In that case, we may be required to issue a letter of
    credit to the surety posting the bond. We may issue up to an
    aggregate of $800 million in letters of credit under our
    $1.5 billion U.S. senior secured first lien credit
    facility. As of December 31, 2010, we had $474 million
    in letters of credit issued and $1,001 million of remaining
    availability under this facility. If we are subject to a
    significant adverse judgment and do not have sufficient
    availability under our credit facilities to issue a letter of
    credit to support an appeal bond, we may be required to pay down
    borrowings under the facilities or deposit





    
    19



Table of Contents





    cash collateral in order to stay the enforcement of the judgment
    pending an appeal. If we are unable to post cash collateral, we
    may be unable to stay enforcement of the judgment.


 


    Under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or
    continue bonds on a
    case-by-case
    basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the
    posting of collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any
    bonds. If surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access
    to bonding, we would need to post other forms of collateral,
    such as letters of credit or cash. As described above, we may be
    unable to secure sufficient letters of credit under our credit
    facilities.


 


    If we were subject to a significant adverse judgment or
    experienced an interruption or reduction in the availability of
    bonding capacity, we may be required to provide letters of
    credit or post cash collateral, which may have a material
    adverse effect on our liquidity.


 



    We are
    subject to extensive government regulations that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation
    through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or
    NHTSA, which has established various standards and regulations
    applicable to tires sold in the United States and tires sold in
    a foreign country that are identical or substantially similar to
    tires sold in the United States. NHTSA has the authority to
    order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having
    safety-related
    defects.


 


    The Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and
    Documentation Act, or TREAD Act, imposes numerous requirements
    with respect to the early warning reporting of warranty claims,
    property damage claims, and bodily injury and fatality claims
    and also requires tire manufacturers, among other things, to
    conform with revised and more rigorous tire testing standards.
    Compliance with the TREAD Act regulations has increased, and
    will continue to increase, the cost of producing and
    distributing tires in the United States. In addition, while we
    believe that our tires are free from design and manufacturing
    defects, it is possible that a recall of our tires, under the
    TREAD Act or otherwise, could occur in the future. A substantial
    recall could have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
    operating results and financial position.


 


    In addition, as required by the Energy Independence and Security
    Act of 2007, NHTSA will establish a national tire fuel
    efficiency consumer information program. When the related
    rule-making process is completed, certain tires sold in the
    United States will be required to be rated for rolling
    resistance, traction and tread wear. While the Federal law will
    pre-empt state tire fuel efficiency laws adopted after
    January 1, 2006, we may become subject to additional tire
    fuel efficiency legislation, either in the United States or
    other countries.


 


    Our European operations are subject to regulation by the
    European Union. In 2009, two important regulations, the Tire
    Safety Regulation and the Tire Labeling Regulation, applicable
    to tires sold in the European Union were adopted. The Tire
    Safety Regulation sets performance standards that tires for cars
    and light and commercial trucks need to meet for rolling
    resistance, wet grip braking and noise in order to be sold in
    the European Union, and will become effective between 2012 and
    2020. The Tire Labeling Regulation applies to all car and light
    and commercial truck tires produced after July 1, 2012 and
    requires that tires be labeled to inform consumers about the
    tire’s fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise characteristics.
    For both of these regulations, additional implementing rules are
    being developed and are expected to be finalized by the end of
    2011.


 


    Tires produced or sold in Europe also have to comply with
    various other standards, including environmental laws such as
    REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction
    of Chemical substances), which regulates the use of chemicals in
    the European Union. For example, since January 1, 2010,
    REACH has prohibited the use of highly aromatic oils in tires,
    which were used as compounding components to improve certain
    safety-related performance characteristics, such as grip.


 


    These U.S. and European regulations, rules adopted to
    implement these regulations, or other similar regulations that
    may be adopted in the United States, Europe or elsewhere in the
    future may require us to alter or increase our capital spending
    and research and development plans or cease the production of
    certain tires, which could have a material adverse affect on our
    operating results.




    
    20



Table of Contents





    Laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational
    safety and health are complicated, change frequently and have
    tended to become stricter over time. As a manufacturing company,
    we are subject to these laws and regulations both inside and
    outside the United States. We may not be in complete compliance
    with such laws and regulations at all times. Our costs or
    liabilities relating to them may be more than the amount we have
    reserved, and that difference may be material.


 


    In addition, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to
    further limitations on the emission of “greenhouse
    gases” due to public policy concerns regarding climate
    change issues or other environmental or health and safety
    concerns. While the form of any additional regulations cannot be
    predicted, a
    “cap-and-trade”
    system similar to the one adopted in the European Union could be
    adopted in the United States. Any such
    “cap-and-trade”
    system (including the system currently in place in the European
    Union) or other limitations imposed on the emission of
    “greenhouse gases” could require us to increase our
    capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits
    or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a
    material adverse affect on our operating results, financial
    condition and liquidity.


 


    Compliance with the laws and regulations described above or any
    of the myriad of applicable foreign, Federal, state and local
    laws and regulations currently in effect or that may be adopted
    in the future could materially adversely affect our competitive
    position, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.


 



    The
    terms and conditions of our global alliance with Sumitomo Rubber
    Industries, Ltd. provide for exit rights available to SRI upon
    the occurrence of certain events, which could require us to make
    a substantial payment to acquire SRI’s interest in our
    European and North American joint ventures.


 


    Under the global alliance agreements between us and SRI, SRI has
    the right to require us to purchase its ownership interests in
    GDTE and GDTNA if certain triggering events have occurred,
    including certain bankruptcy events, changes in control of
    Goodyear or breaches of the global alliance agreements. While we
    have not done any current valuation of these businesses, any
    payment required to be made to SRI pursuant to an exit under the
    terms of the global alliance agreements could be substantial. We
    cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and
    capital resources would be sufficient to make such a payment or,
    if we were able to make the payment, that there would be
    sufficient funds remaining to satisfy our other obligations. The
    withdrawal of SRI from the global alliance could also have other
    adverse effects on our business, including the loss of
    technology and purchasing synergies. For further information
    regarding our global alliance with SRI, including the events
    that could trigger SRI’s exit rights, see
    “Item 1. Business. Description of Goodyear’s
    Business — Global Alliance.”


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business
    could be materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business substantially depends on the continued service of
    key members of our management. The loss of the services of a
    significant number of members of our management could have a
    material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will
    also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled
    personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management
    professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and
    we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and
    retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we
    do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting
    new high quality employees, our business could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    We may
    be impacted by economic and supply disruptions associated with
    events beyond our control, such as war, acts of terror,
    political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or
    natural disasters.


 


    We manage businesses and facilities worldwide. Our
    facilities and operations, and the facilities and operations of
    our suppliers and customers, could be disrupted by events beyond
    our control, such as war, acts of terror, political unrest,
    public health concerns, labor disputes or natural disasters. Any
    such disruption could cause delays in the production and
    distribution of our products and the loss of sales and
    customers. We may not be insured against all such potential
    losses and, if insured, the insurance proceeds that we receive
    may not adequately compensate us for all of our losses.




    
    21



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1B