ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    You should carefully consider the risks described below and
    other information contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    when considering an investment decision with respect to our
    securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also
    impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in
    the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business,
    results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be
    materially adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading
    price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or
    part of your investment.


 



    If we
    do not achieve projected savings from various cost reduction
    initiatives or successfully implement other strategic
    initiatives our operating results, financial condition and
    liquidity may be materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business continues to be impacted by trends that have
    negatively affected the tire industry in general, including
    industry overcapacity, which limits our ability to obtain price
    relief, recessionary economic conditions in many parts of the
    world, volatile and high raw material and energy costs, severe
    weakness in the North American auto industry, weakness in the
    demand for replacement tires in the U.S. and Europe, and
    increased competition from low-cost manufacturers. Reduced
    consumer confidence and spending, increases in fuel prices and
    other factors have caused consumers to delay the purchase of new
    tires, purchase fewer automobiles or drive fewer miles,
    resulting in a significant reduction in demand for replacement
    and original equipment tires. Unlike most other tire
    manufacturers, we also face the continuing burden of legacy
    pension and postretirement benefit costs.


 


    In order to offset the impact of these trends, we continue to
    implement various cost reduction initiatives and expect to
    achieve $2.5 billion in aggregate gross cost savings from
    2006 through 2009 compared with 2005 through our four-point cost
    savings plan, which includes expected savings from continuous
    improvement initiatives, increased low-cost country sourcing,
    high-cost capacity reductions and reduced selling,
    administrative and general expenses.


 


    In response to the unprecedented deterioration in U.S. and
    global economic conditions, we have announced a number of
    additional cost reduction and other actions intended to impact
    both our near-term performance and long-term structure. These
    actions are discussed more fully in “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Overview.”


 


    Our performance is also dependent on our ability to continue to
    improve the proportion, or mix, of higher margin tires we sell.
    In order to continue this improvement, we must be successful in
    marketing and selling products that offer higher margins such as
    the Assurance, Eagle and Fortera lines of tires and in
    developing additional higher margin tires that achieve broad
    market acceptance in North America and elsewhere. Shifts in
    consumer demand away from higher margin tires could materially
    adversely affect our business.


 


    We cannot assure you that our cost reduction and other
    initiatives will be successful. If not, we may not be able to
    achieve or sustain future profitability, which would impair our
    ability to meet our debt and other obligations and would
    otherwise negatively affect our financial condition, results of
    operations and liquidity.


 



    Our
    long term ability to meet our obligations and to repay maturing
    indebtedness may be dependent on our ability to access capital
    markets in the future and to improve our operating
    results.


 


    The adequacy of our liquidity depends on our ability to achieve
    an appropriate combination of operating improvements, financing
    from third parties, access to capital markets and asset sales.
    We may need to undertake additional financing actions in the
    capital markets in order to ensure that our future liquidity
    requirements are addressed. These actions may include the
    issuance of additional debt or equity.


 


    Our access to the capital markets cannot be assured and is
    dependent on, among other things, the ability and willingness of
    financial institutions to extend credit on terms that are
    acceptable to us, or to honor future draws on our existing lines
    of credit, and the degree of success we have in implementing our
    cost reduction plans and improving the results of our North
    American Tire segment. Future liquidity requirements, or our
    inability to access cash deposits or make draws on our lines of
    credit, also may make it necessary for us to incur additional
    debt. A substantial portion of our assets is subject to liens
    securing our indebtedness. As a result, we are limited in our
    ability to pledge our remaining assets as security for
    additional secured indebtedness.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Our inability to access the capital markets or incur additional
    debt in the future could have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity and operations, and could require us to consider
    further measures, including deferring planned capital
    expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling
    additional assets and restructuring existing debt.


 



    We
    face significant global competition and our market share could
    decline.


 


    New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions
    throughout the world. We compete with other tire manufacturers
    on the basis of product design, performance, price and terms,
    reputation, warranty terms, customer service and consumer
    convenience. On a worldwide basis, we have two major
    competitors, Bridgestone (based in Japan) and Michelin (based in
    France), that have large shares of the markets of the countries
    in which they are based and are aggressively seeking to maintain
    or improve their worldwide market share. Other significant
    competitors include Continental, Cooper, Hankook, Kumho,
    Pirelli, Toyo, Yokohama and various regional tire manufacturers.
    Our competitors produce significant numbers of tires in low-cost
    countries. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in
    significant part, on our ability to reduce costs by such means
    as reduction of excess capacity, leveraging global purchasing,
    improving productivity, eliminating redundancies and increasing
    production at low-cost supply sources. If we are unable to
    compete successfully, our market share may decline, materially
    adversely affecting our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Our
    pension plans are significantly underfunded and, in the future,
    the underfunding levels of our pension plans and our pension
    expenses could materially increase.


 


    Many of our U.S. and our
    non-U.S. employees
    participate in defined benefit pension plans, although effective
    December 31, 2008 we froze our U.S. salaried pension
    plans. We have experienced periods of declines in interest rates
    and pension asset values. As a result, our pension plans are
    significantly underfunded. Further declines in interest rates or
    the market values of the securities held by the plans, or
    certain other changes, could materially increase the underfunded
    status of our plans and affect the level and timing of required
    contributions in 2010 and beyond. The unfunded amount of the
    projected benefit obligation for our U.S. and
    non-U.S. pension
    plans was $2,129 million and $619 million,
    respectively, at December 31, 2008, and we currently
    estimate that we will be required to make contributions to our
    funded U.S. pension plans of approximately
    $200 million to $225 million in 2009, and
    $375 million to $425 million in 2010. The current
    underfunded status of our pension plans will, and a further
    material increase in the underfunded status of the plans would,
    significantly increase our required contributions and pension
    expenses, which could impair our ability to achieve or sustain
    future profitability.


 



    Higher
    raw material and energy costs may materially adversely affect
    our operating results and financial condition.


 


    Raw material costs increased significantly over the past few
    years driven by increases in prices of petrochemical-based
    commodities and natural rubber. Market conditions may prevent us
    from passing these increased costs on to our customers through
    timely price increases. Additionally, higher raw material costs
    around the world may offset our efforts to reduce our cost
    structure. As a result, higher raw material and energy costs
    could result in declining margins and operating results. The
    volatility of raw material costs may cause our margins and
    operating results to fluctuate.


 



    Work
    stoppages, financial difficulties, supply disruptions or
    economic conditions affecting our major OE customers, dealers or
    suppliers could harm our business.


 


    The recent unprecedented deterioration in the U.S. and
    global credit markets, the financial services industry and
    overall general economic conditions has negatively impacted our
    operations in several ways. For instance, market turmoil and
    tightening of credit, as well as the recent and dramatic decline
    in the housing market in the U.S. and Western Europe and in
    the stock market, has led to a lack of consumer confidence and
    widespread reduction of business activity generally and
    specifically to a rapid decline in vehicle purchases from our OE
    customers, which reduces our net sales. In 2008, our OE
    customers, particularly in the U.S., experienced significant
    difficulty due to high fuel costs and rapidly deteriorating
    economic conditions.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Although sales to our OE customers account for less than 20% of
    our net sales, demand for our products by OE customers and
    production levels at our facilities are directly related to
    automotive vehicle production. In addition to the economic
    conditions described in the preceding paragraph, automotive
    production can be affected by labor relations issues, financial
    difficulties or supply disruptions. Our OE customers could
    experience production disruptions resulting from their own or
    supplier labor, financial or supply difficulties. Such events
    may cause an OE customer to reduce or suspend vehicle
    production. As a result, an OE customer could halt or
    significantly reduce purchases of our products, which would harm
    our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 


    In addition, the bankruptcy, restructuring or consolidation of
    one or more of our major OE customers, dealers or suppliers
    could result in the write-off of accounts receivable, a
    reduction in purchases of our products or a supply disruption to
    our facilities, which could negatively affect our results of
    operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 



    Pricing
    pressures from vehicle manufacturers may materially adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Pricing pressure from vehicle manufacturers has been a
    characteristic of the tire industry in recent years. Many
    vehicle manufacturers have policies of seeking price reductions
    each year. Although we have taken steps to reduce costs and
    resist price reductions, current and future price reductions
    could materially adversely impact our sales and profit margins.
    If we are unable to offset future price reductions through
    improved operating efficiencies and cost reductions, those price
    reductions may result in declining margins and operating results.


 



    If we
    fail to extend or renegotiate our primary collective bargaining
    contracts with our labor unions as they expire from time to
    time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike
    or other work stoppage, our business, financial position,
    results of operations and liquidity could be materially
    adversely affected.


 


    We are a party to collective bargaining contracts with our labor
    unions, which represent a significant number of our employees.
    In particular, our master collective bargaining agreement with
    the USW covers approximately 11,000 employees in the United
    States at December 31, 2008 and expires in July 2009.
    Approximately 21,000 of our employees outside of the United
    States are covered by union contracts expiring in 2009 primarily
    in Germany, France, Luxembourg and Brazil. Although we believe
    that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no
    assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully
    extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as
    they expire from time to time. If we fail to extend or
    renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes
    with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a
    strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher labor costs
    or experience a significant disruption of operations, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    position, results of operations and liquidity.


 



    We
    have a substantial amount of debt, which could restrict our
    growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise
    materially adversely affect our financial health.


 


    We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31,
    2008, our debt (including capital leases) on a consolidated
    basis was approximately $5.0 billion. Our substantial
    amount of debt and other obligations could have important
    consequences. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;








     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development,
    acquisitions or general corporate requirements;








     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;








     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we would need to dedicate a substantial
    portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;








     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate; and








     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors.





 


    The agreements governing our debt, including our credit
    agreements, limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring
    additional debt and we may incur a significant amount of
    additional debt in the future, including additional secured



    
    15



Table of Contents




    debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, our
    ability to satisfy our debt obligations may become more limited.


 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our
    debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and
    operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability
    to implement our cost reduction initiatives and other
    strategies, prevailing economic conditions and certain
    financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our
    cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our
    debt service and other obligations, including required pension
    contributions, we may be forced to reduce or delay expansion
    plans and capital expenditures, sell material assets or
    operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt.
    We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow
    and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our debt
    obligations when they become due. We cannot assure you that we
    would be able to dispose of material assets or operations or
    restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even
    if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on
    terms that are acceptable to us.


 



    Any
    failure to be in compliance with any material provision or
    covenant of our debt instruments, or a material reduction in the
    borrowing base under our revolving credit facility, could have a
    material adverse effect on our liquidity and
    operations.


 


    The indentures and other agreements governing our secured credit
    facilities, senior unsecured notes and our other outstanding
    indebtedness impose significant operating and financial
    restrictions on us. These restrictions may affect our ability to
    operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage
    of potential business opportunities as they arise. These
    restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional debt or issue redeemable preferred stock;








     
        • 

    
    make certain restricted payments or investments;








     
        • 

    
    incur liens;








     
        • 

    
    sell certain assets;








     
        • 

    
    incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay
    dividends to us;








     
        • 

    
    enter into affiliate transactions;








     
        • 

    
    engage in sale/leaseback transactions; and








     
        • 

    
    engage in certain mergers or consolidations and transfers of
    substantially all of our assets.





 


    Availability under our first lien revolving credit facility is
    subject to a borrowing base, which is based on eligible accounts
    receivable and inventory. To the extent that our eligible
    accounts receivable and inventory decline, our borrowing base
    will decrease and the availability under that facility may
    decrease below its stated amount. In addition, if at any time
    the amount of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit under
    that facility exceeds the borrowing base, we are required to
    prepay borrowings
    and/or cash
    collateralize letters of credit sufficient to eliminate the
    excess.


 


    Our ability to comply with these covenants or to maintain our
    borrowing base may be affected by events beyond our control,
    including deteriorating economic conditions, and these events
    could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or
    alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We
    cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative
    financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms
    acceptable to us.


 


    A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in
    any of our existing or future financing agreements, including
    the financial covenants in our secured credit facilities, could
    result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a
    default could allow the lenders under our financing agreements,
    if the agreements so provide, to discontinue lending, to
    accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a
    cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies,
    and/or to
    declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and
    payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any
    commitments they have to provide us with further funds. If any
    of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have
    sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of
    obligations that become due as a result of any such
    acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or
    alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated
    obligations. Even if we obtain additional or alternative
    financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that
    would be acceptable to us.



    
    16



Table of Contents




    We cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in
    compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the
    future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain
    waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.


 



    Our
    capital expenditures may not be adequate to maintain our
    competitive position and may not be implemented in a timely or
    cost-effective manner.


 


    Our capital expenditures are limited by our liquidity and
    capital resources and the amount we have available for capital
    spending is limited by the need to pay our other expenses and to
    maintain adequate cash reserves and borrowing capacity to meet
    unexpected demands that may arise. We believe that our ratio of
    capital expenditures to sales is lower than the comparable ratio
    for our principal competitors.


 


    Productivity improvements through process re-engineering, design
    efficiency and manufacturing cost improvements may be required
    to offset potential increases in labor and raw material costs
    and competitive price pressures. In addition, as part of our
    strategy to increase the percentage of tires that are produced
    at our lower-cost production facilities and to increase our
    capacity to produce higher margin tires, we may need to
    modernize or expand our facilities. We may not have sufficient
    resources to implement planned capital expenditures with minimal
    disruption to our existing manufacturing operations, or within
    desired time frames and budgets. Any disruption to our
    operations, delay in implementing capital improvements or
    unexpected costs may materially adversely affect our business
    and results of operations.


 


    If we are unable to make sufficient capital expenditures, or to
    maximize the efficiency of the capital expenditures we do make,
    we may be unable to achieve productivity improvements, which may
    harm our competitive position. In addition, plant modernizations
    may temporarily disrupt our manufacturing operations and lead to
    temporary increases in our costs.


 


    Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest
    rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to
    increase significantly.


 


    Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and
    expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our
    debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would
    increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same,
    which would require us to use more of our available cash to
    service our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will
    be able to enter into swap agreements or other hedging
    arrangements in the future, or that existing or future hedging
    arrangements will offset increases in interest rates. As of
    December 31, 2008, we had approximately $3.4 billion
    of variable rate debt outstanding.


 



    We
    have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our operating
    income fluctuates disproportionately with changes in our net
    sales.


 


    We operate with significant operating and financial leverage.
    Significant portions of our manufacturing, selling,
    administrative and general expenses are fixed costs that neither
    increase nor decrease proportionately with sales. In addition, a
    significant portion of our interest expense is fixed. There can
    be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our fixed costs
    proportionately in response to a decline in our net sales and
    therefore our competitiveness could be significantly impacted.
    As a result, a decline in our net sales would result in a higher
    percentage decline in our income from operations and net income.


 



    We may
    incur significant costs in connection with asbestos
    claims.


 


    We are among many defendants named in legal proceedings
    involving claims of individuals relating to alleged exposure to
    asbestos. At December 31, 2008, approximately 99,000 claims
    were pending against us alleging various asbestos-related
    personal injuries purported to have resulted from alleged
    exposure to asbestos in certain rubber encapsulated products or
    aircraft braking systems manufactured by us in the past or to
    asbestos in certain of our facilities. We expect that additional
    claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate
    liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is
    subject to various uncertainties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the number of claims that are brought in the future;








     
        • 

    
    the costs of defending and settling these claims;








     
        • 

    
    the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers;






    
    17



Table of Contents








    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to
    pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we
    have historically settled claims;








     
        • 

    
    the risk of changes in the litigation environment or Federal and
    state law governing the compensation of asbestos
    claimants; and








     
        • 

    
    the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may
    increase our costs.





 


    Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is
    possible that we may incur a material amount in excess of our
    current reserve for such claims. In addition, if any of the
    foregoing risks were to materialize, the resulting costs could
    have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial
    position and results of operations in future periods.


 



    We may
    be required to provide letters of credit or post cash collateral
    if we are subject to a significant adverse judgment or if we are
    unable to obtain surety bonds, which may have a material adverse
    effect on our liquidity.


 


    We are subject to various legal proceedings. If we wish to
    appeal any future adverse judgment in any of these proceedings,
    we may be required to post an appeal bond with the relevant
    court. In that case, we may be required to issue a letter of
    credit to the surety posting the bond. We may issue up to an
    aggregate of $800 million in letters of credit under our
    $1.5 billion U.S. senior secured first lien credit
    facility. As of December 31, 2008, we had $497 million
    in letters of credit issued and $303 million of remaining
    availability under this facility. If we are subject to a
    significant adverse judgment and do not have sufficient
    availability under our credit facilities to issue a letter of
    credit to support an appeal bond, we may be required to pay down
    borrowings under the facilities or deposit cash collateral in
    order to stay the enforcement of the judgment pending an appeal.
    If we are unable to post cash collateral, we may be unable to
    stay enforcement of the judgment.


 


    Surety market conditions are currently difficult as a result of
    significant losses incurred by many sureties in recent periods,
    both in the construction industry as well as in certain larger
    corporate bankruptcies. As a result, less bonding capacity is
    available in the market and terms have become more expensive and
    restrictive. Further, under standard terms in the surety market,
    sureties issue or continue bonds on a
    case-by-case
    basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the
    posting of collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any
    bonds. If surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access
    to bonding, we would need to post other forms of collateral,
    such as letters of credit or cash. As described above, we may be
    unable to secure sufficient letters of credit under our credit
    facilities.


 


    If we were subject to a significant adverse judgment or
    experienced an interruption or reduction in the availability of
    bonding capacity, we may be required to provide letters of
    credit or post cash collateral, which may have a material
    adverse effect on our liquidity.


 



    We are
    subject to extensive government regulations that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation
    through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or
    NHTSA, which has established various standards and regulations
    applicable to tires sold in the United States and tires sold in
    a foreign country that are identical or substantially similar to
    tires sold in the United States. NHTSA has the authority to
    order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having
    safety-related defects.


 


    NHTSA’s regulatory authority was expanded in November 2000
    as a result of the enactment of the Transportation Recall
    Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act, or TREAD
    Act. The TREAD Act imposes numerous requirements with respect to
    the early warning reporting of warranty claims, property damage
    claims, and bodily injury and fatality claims and also requires
    tire manufacturers, among other things, to conform with revised
    and more rigorous tire testing standards, once the revised
    standards are implemented. Compliance with the TREAD Act
    regulations has increased and will continue to increase the cost
    of producing and distributing tires in the United States. In
    addition, while we believe that our tires are free from design
    and manufacturing defects, it is possible that a recall of our
    tires, under the TREAD Act or otherwise, could occur in the
    future. A substantial recall could have a material adverse
    effect on our reputation, operating results and financial
    position.



    
    18



Table of Contents




    In addition, as required by the enactment of an omnibus energy
    bill in December 2007, NHTSA will establish a national tire fuel
    efficiency consumer information program. While the new Federal
    law will pre-empt state tire fuel efficiency laws adopted after
    January 1, 2006, we may become subject to additional tire
    fuel efficiency legislation, either in the United States or
    other countries, which might require us to alter or increase our
    capital spending and research and development plans or cease
    production of certain tires.


 


    Compliance with these and other foreign, Federal, state and
    local laws and regulations in the future may require a material
    increase in our capital expenditures and could materially
    adversely affect our earnings and competitive position.


 



    Our
    international operations have certain risks that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We have manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout the
    world. Our international operations are subject to certain
    inherent risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    exposure to local economic conditions;








     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States;








     
        • 

    
    hostility from local populations and insurrections;








     
        • 

    
    adverse currency exchange controls;








     
        • 

    
    withholding taxes and restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign
    investment and earnings;








     
        • 

    
    labor regulations;








     
        • 

    
    expropriations of property;








     
        • 

    
    the potential instability of foreign governments;








     
        • 

    
    risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements
    with governmental authorities;








     
        • 

    
    export and import restrictions; and








     
        • 

    
    other changes in laws or government policies.





 


    The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on
    us vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Certain
    regions, including Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and
    Africa, are inherently more economically and politically
    volatile and as a result, our business units that operate in
    these regions could be subject to significant fluctuations in
    sales and operating income from quarter to quarter. Because a
    significant percentage of our operating income in recent years
    has come from these regions, adverse fluctuations in the
    operating results in these regions could have a disproportionate
    impact on our results of operations in future periods.


 



    We
    have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may
    materially adversely affect our operating results.


 


    The financial position and results of operations of our
    international subsidiaries are reported in various foreign
    currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the
    applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial
    statements. As a result, the appreciation of the
    U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a negative
    impact on our reported sales and operating margin (and
    conversely, the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against
    these foreign currencies has a positive impact). For the year
    ended December 31, 2008, we estimate that foreign currency
    translation favorably impacted sales and segment operating
    income by approximately $383 million and $55 million,
    respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2007.
    The volatility of currency exchange rates may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 



    The
    terms and conditions of our global alliance with Sumitomo Rubber
    Industries, Ltd. provide for certain exit rights available to
    SRI upon the occurrence of certain events, which could require
    us to make a substantial payment to acquire SRI’s interest
    in certain of our joint venture alliances.


 


    In 1999, we entered into a global alliance with SRI. Under the
    global alliance agreements between us and SRI, beginning in
    September 2009, SRI has the right to require us to purchase from
    SRI its ownership interests in the European and North American
    joint ventures if certain triggering events have occurred. In
    addition, the occurrence of certain other events enumerated in
    the global alliance agreements, including certain bankruptcy
    events, changes in control of Goodyear or breaches of the global
    alliance agreements, could provide SRI with the right to require
    us to repurchase these interests immediately. The global
    alliance agreements provide that the payment amount would



    
    19



Table of Contents




    be based on the fair value of SRI’s 25% minority
    shareholder’s interest in each of the European and North
    American joint ventures and the book value of net assets of the
    Japanese joint ventures. The payment amount would be determined
    through a negotiation process where, if no mutually agreed
    amount was determined, a binding arbitration process would
    determine that amount. While we have not done any current
    valuation of these businesses, any payment required to be made
    to SRI pursuant to an exit under the terms of the global
    alliance agreements could be substantial. We cannot assure you
    that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources
    would be sufficient to make such a payment or, if we were able
    to make the payment, that there would be sufficient funds
    remaining to satisfy our other obligations. The withdrawal of
    SRI from the global alliance could also have other adverse
    effects on our business, including the loss of technology and
    purchasing synergies.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business
    could be materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business substantially depends on the continued service of
    key members of our management. The loss of the services of a
    significant number of members of our management could have a
    material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will
    also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled
    personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management
    professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and
    we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and
    retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we
    do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting
    new high quality employees, our business could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    We may
    be impacted by economic and supply disruptions associated with
    events beyond our control, such as war, acts of terror,
    political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or
    natural disasters.


 


    We manage businesses and facilities worldwide. Our facilities
    and operations, and the facilities and operations of our
    suppliers and customers, could be disrupted by events beyond our
    control, such as war, acts of terror, political unrest, public
    health concerns, labor disputes or natural disasters. Any such
    disruption could cause delays in the production and distribution
    of our products and the loss of sales and customers. We may not
    be insured against all such potential losses and, if insured,
    the insurance proceeds that we receive may not adequately
    compensate us for all of our losses.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B