Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” in this
    Form 10-K.




    
    1



Table of Contents





    Debt Exchange Offer.  On February 2, 2010,
    we commenced an offer to exchange any and all of our
    $650 million in aggregate principal amount of
    7.857% Notes due 2011 (the “2011 Notes”) for up
    to $702 million in aggregate principal amount of a new
    series of 8.75% Notes due 2020. Concurrent with the
    exchange offer, we are soliciting consents from the holders of
    the 2011 Notes to amend the terms of the indenture that governs
    the 2011 Notes. The proposed amendments, if adopted, would
    delete many of the restrictive covenants and certain events of
    default in the indenture governing the 2011 Notes. The new notes
    will be our unsecured senior obligations and will be guaranteed
    by our U.S. and Canadian subsidiaries that also guarantee
    our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities. The
    exchange offer and consent solicitation will expire on
    March 2, 2010, unless extended or earlier terminated by us.
    The completion of the exchange offer and consent solicitation is
    subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including
    that we receive valid tenders, not validly withdrawn, of at
    least $260 million in aggregate principal of the 2011 Notes.


 


    The Reserve Primary Fund.  On January 29,
    2010, we received a distribution of $24 million from The
    Reserve Primary Fund.


 



    DESCRIPTION
    OF GOODYEAR’S BUSINESS


 



    General
    Segment Information


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2009, we operated our
    business through four operating segments representing our
    regional tire businesses: North American Tire; Europe, Middle
    East and Africa Tire; Latin American Tire; and Asia Pacific
    Tire. As a result of our sale of substantially all of our
    Engineered Products business on July 31, 2007, we have
    reported results of that segment as discontinued operations for
    2007.


 



    Financial
    Information About Our Segments


 


    Financial information related to our operating segments for the
    three year period ended December 31, 2009 appears in the
    Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements No. 17,
    Business Segments.


 



    General
    Information Regarding Our Segments


 


    Our principal business is the development, manufacture,
    distribution and sale of tires and related products and services
    worldwide. We manufacture and market numerous lines of rubber
    tires for:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    automobiles








     
        • 

    
    trucks








     
        • 

    
    buses








     
        • 

    
    aviation








     
        • 

    
    motorcycles








     
        • 

    
    farm implements








     
        • 

    
    earthmoving and mining equipment








     
        • 

    
    industrial equipment, and








     
        • 

    
    various other applications.





 


    In each case, our tires are offered for sale to vehicle
    manufacturers for mounting as original equipment
    (“OE”) and for replacement worldwide. We manufacture
    and sell tires under the Goodyear, Dunlop, Kelly, Fulda, Debica
    and Sava brands and various other Goodyear owned
    “house” brands, and the private-label brands of
    certain customers. In certain geographic areas we also:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    retread truck, aviation and
    off-the-road,
    or OTR, tires,








     
        • 

    
    manufacture and sell tread rubber and other tire retreading
    materials,








     
        • 

    
    provide automotive repair services and miscellaneous other
    products and services, and








     
        • 

    
    manufacture and sell flaps for truck tires and other types of
    tires.







    
    2



Table of Contents




 


    Our principal products are new tires for most applications.
    Approximately 83% of our sales in 2009 were for new tires,
    compared to 82% in 2008 and 84% in 2007. Sales of chemical
    products and natural rubber to unaffiliated customers were 4% in
    2009, 6% in 2008 and 5% in 2007 of our consolidated sales (9%,
    14% and 11% of North American Tire’s total sales in
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively). The percentages of each
    segment’s sales attributable to new tires during the
    periods indicated were:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,





    Sales of New Tires By



 


    2009


 


    2008


 


    2007



 






    North American Tire



 


 


    77


    %


 


 


    73


    %


 


 


    78


    %





    Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire



 


 


    88


 


 


 


    88


 


 


 


    92


 





    Latin American Tire



 


 


    93


 


 


 


    92


 


 


 


    90


 





    Asia Pacific Tire



 


 


    83


 


 


 


    82


 


 


 


    81


 








 


    Each segment exports tires to other segments. The financial
    results of each segment exclude sales of tires exported to other
    segments, but include operating income derived from such
    transactions.


 


    Goodyear does not include motorcycle, all terrain vehicle or
    consigned tires in reporting tire unit sales.


 


    Tire unit sales for each segment during the periods indicated
    were:


 



    GOODYEAR’S
    ANNUAL TIRE UNIT SALES — SEGMENT


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,


 




    (In millions of tires)


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 



 






    North American Tire



 


 


    62.7


 


 


 


    71.1


 


 


 


    81.3


 





    Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire



 


 


    66.0


 


 


 


    73.6


 


 


 


    79.6


 





    Latin American Tire



 


 


    19.1


 


 


 


    20.0


 


 


 


    21.8


 





    Asia Pacific Tire



 


 


    19.2


 


 


 


    19.8


 


 


 


    19.0


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Goodyear worldwide tire units



 


 


    167.0


 


 


 


    184.5


 


 


 


    201.7


 








 


    Our replacement and OE tire unit sales during the periods
    indicated were:


 



    GOODYEAR’S
    ANNUAL TIRE UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT AND OE


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,


 




    (In millions of tires)


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 



 






    Replacement tire units



 


 


    128.0


 


 


 


    134.1


 


 


 


    141.9


 





    OE tire units



 


 


    39.0


 


 


 


    50.4


 


 


 


    59.8


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Goodyear worldwide tire units



 


 


    167.0


 


 


 


    184.5


 


 


 


    201.7


 








 


    New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions
    throughout the world. On a worldwide basis, we have two major
    competitors: Bridgestone (based in Japan) and Michelin (based in
    France). Other significant competitors include Continental,
    Cooper, Hankook, Pirelli, Toyo, Yokohama and various regional
    tire manufacturers.


 


    We compete with other tire manufacturers on the basis of product
    design, performance, price, reputation, warranty terms, customer
    service and consumer convenience. Goodyear and Dunlop brand
    tires enjoy a high recognition factor and have a reputation for
    performance and quality. The Kelly, Debica and Sava brands and
    various other house brand tire lines offered by us, and tires
    manufactured and sold by us to private brand customers, compete
    primarily on the basis of value and price.


 


    Although we do not consider our tire businesses to be seasonal
    to any significant degree, we historically sell more replacement
    tires in North American Tire and Europe, Middle East and Africa
    Tire during the third quarter.




    
    3



Table of Contents






    Global
    Alliance


 


    We have a global alliance with Sumitomo Rubber Industries, Ltd.
    (“SRI”). Under the global alliance, we own 75% and SRI
    owns 25% of two companies, Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe B.V.
    (“GDTE”) and Goodyear Dunlop Tires North America, Ltd.
    (“GDTNA”). GDTE owns and operates substantially all of
    our tire businesses in Western Europe. GDTNA owns the Dunlop
    brand and operates certain related businesses in North America.
    In Japan, we own 25%, and SRI owns 75%, of two companies, one
    for the sale of Goodyear brand passenger and truck tires for
    replacement in Japan and the other for the sale of Goodyear
    brand and Dunlop brand tires to vehicle manufacturers in Japan.
    We also own 51%, and SRI owns 49%, of a company that coordinates
    and disseminates both commercialized tire technology and
    non-commercialized technology among Goodyear and SRI, the joint
    ventures and their respective affiliates, and we own 80%, and
    SRI owns 20%, of a global purchasing company. The global
    alliance also provided for the investment by Goodyear and SRI in
    the common stock of the other.


 


    SRI has the right to require us to purchase its ownership
    interests in GDTE and GDTNA, which we refer to as “exit
    rights,” if there is a change in control of Goodyear, a
    bankruptcy of Goodyear or a breach, subject to notice and the
    opportunity to cure, of the global alliance agreements by
    Goodyear that has a material adverse effect on the rights of SRI
    or its affiliates under the global alliance agreements, taken as
    a whole. In addition, SRI has exit rights upon the occurrence of
    the following events:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the adoption or material revision of a business plan for GDTE or
    GDTNA if SRI disagrees with the adoption or revision;








     
        • 

    
    certain acquisitions, investments or dispositions exceeding 10%
    but less than 20% of the fair market value of GDTE or GDTNA or
    the acquisition by GDTE or GDTNA of all or a material portion of
    another tire manufacturer or tire distributor;








     
        • 

    
    if SRI decides not to subscribe to its pro rata share of any
    permitted new issue of non-voting equity capital authorized
    pursuant to the provisions of the shareholders agreements
    relating to GDTE or GDTNA;








     
        • 

    
    if GDTE, GDTNA or Goodyear takes an action which, in the
    reasonable opinion of SRI, has, or is likely to have, a
    continuing material adverse effect on the tire business relating
    to the Dunlop brand; or








     
        • 

    
    if at any time SRI’s ownership of the shares of GDTE or
    GDTNA is less than 10% of the equity capital of that joint
    venture company.





 


    SRI must give written notice to Goodyear of its intention to
    exercise its exit rights no later than three months from the
    date such exit rights became exercisable, except that notice of
    SRI’s intention to exercise its exit rights upon the
    occurrence of the event described in the last bullet point above
    may be given as long as SRI’s share ownership is less than
    10%. If SRI were to exercise any of its exit rights, the global
    alliance agreements provide that the purchase price would be
    based on the fair value of SRI’s 25% minority
    shareholder’s interest in GDTE and GDTNA. The purchase
    price would be determined through a negotiation process where,
    if no mutually agreed purchase price was determined, a binding
    arbitration process would determine the purchase price. Goodyear
    would retain the rights to the Dunlop brand in Europe and North
    America following any such purchase. As of the date of this
    filing, SRI has not provided us notice of any exit rights that
    have become exercisable.


 



    North
    American Tire


 


    North American Tire, our largest segment in terms of revenue,
    develops, manufactures, distributes and sells tires and related
    products and services in the United States and Canada. North
    American Tire manufactures tires in eight plants in the United
    States and two plants in Canada.


 


    North American Tire manufactures and sells tires for
    automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, buses, earthmoving and mining
    equipment, commercial and military aviation and industrial
    equipment, and for various other applications.


 


    Goodyear brand radial passenger tire lines sold in the United
    States and Canada include Assurance, Assurance Fuel Max,
    Assurance featuring TripleTred Technology and Assurance
    featuring ComforTred Technology for the premium market; Eagle,
    for the high performance market, and RunOnFlat extended mobility
    technology (“ROF” or “EMT”) tires. The major
    lines of Goodyear brand radial tires offered in the United
    States and Canada for sport utility vehicles and light trucks
    are Wrangler featuring technologies including MT/R with Kevlar,
    and DuraTrac; and Fortera featuring TripleTred Technology.
    Goodyear also offers Dunlop brand radial passenger tire lines





    
    4



Table of Contents





    including Signature and SP Sport performance tires, and Dunlop
    brand radials for light trucks such as the Rover and Grandtrek
    lines. Additionally, North American Tire also manufactures and
    sells several lines of Kelly and Fierce brands, as well as house
    and private brand radial passenger and light truck tires in the
    United States and Canada.


 


    North American Tire manufactures and sells all-steel, radial
    medium truck tires under the Goodyear, Dunlop and Kelly brands,
    for use on commercial trucks and trailers.


 


    North American Tire also:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    retreads truck, aviation and OTR tires, primarily as a service
    to its commercial customers,








     
        • 

    
    manufactures tread rubber and other tire retreading materials
    for trucks, heavy equipment and aviation,








     
        • 

    
    provides automotive maintenance and repair services at
    approximately 700 retail outlets primarily under the Goodyear or
    Just Tires names,








     
        • 

    
    provides trucking fleets with new tires, retreads, mechanical
    service, preventative maintenance and roadside assistance from
    178 Wingfoot Commercial Centers,








     
        • 

    
    sells automotive repair and maintenance items, automotive
    equipment and accessories and other items to dealers and
    consumers,








     
        • 

    
    sells chemical and natural rubber products to Goodyear’s
    other business segments and to unaffiliated customers, and








     
        • 

    
    provides miscellaneous other products and services.





 



    Markets
    and Other Information


 


    Tire unit sales to replacement customers and to OE customers
    served by North American Tire during the periods indicated were:


 



    NORTH
    AMERICAN TIRE UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT AND
    OE


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,


 




    (In millions of tires)


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 



 






    Replacement tire units



 


 


    50.0


 


 


 


    51.4


 


 


 


    55.7


 





    OE tire units



 


 


    12.7


 


 


 


    19.7


 


 


 


    25.6


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total tire units



 


 


    62.7


 


 


 


    71.1


 


 


 


    81.3


 








 


    North American Tire is a major supplier of tires to most
    manufacturers of automobiles, motorcycles, trucks and aircraft
    that have production facilities located in North America.


 


    North American Tire’s primary competitors are Bridgestone
    and Michelin. Other significant competitors include Continental,
    Cooper and several Asian manufacturers.


 


    Goodyear, Dunlop and Kelly brand tires are sold in the United
    States and Canada through several channels of distribution. The
    principal channel for Goodyear brand tires is a large network of
    independent dealers. Goodyear, Dunlop and Kelly brand tires are
    also sold to numerous national and regional retail marketing
    firms in the United States. Several lines of house brand tires
    and private label brand tires are sold to independent dealers,
    national and regional wholesale marketing organizations and
    various other retail marketers.


 


    We are subject to regulation by the National Highway Traffic
    Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), which has established
    various standards and regulations applicable to tires sold in
    the United States for highway use. NHTSA has the authority to
    order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having
    safety defects related to motor vehicle safety. In addition, the
    Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and
    Documentation Act (the “TREAD Act”) imposes numerous
    requirements with respect to tire recalls. The TREAD Act also
    requires tire manufacturers to, among other things, remedy tire
    safety defects without charge for five years and comply with
    revised and more rigorous tire standards.


 



    Europe,
    Middle East And Africa Tire


 


    Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire (“EMEA”), our
    second largest segment in terms of revenue, develops,
    manufactures, distributes and sells tires for automobiles,
    motorcycles, trucks, farm implements and construction





    
    5



Table of Contents





    equipment throughout Europe, the Middle East and Africa, exports
    tires to other regions of the world and provides miscellaneous
    other products and services. EMEA manufactures tires in 16
    plants in England, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Poland,
    Slovenia, South Africa and Turkey. EMEA:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    manufactures and sells Goodyear, Debica, Sava, Dunlop and Fulda
    brands and other house brand passenger, truck, motorcycle, farm
    and OTR tires,








     
        • 

    
    sells new aviation tires, and manufactures and sells retreaded
    aviation tires,








     
        • 

    
    exports tires for sale in North America and other regions of the
    world,








     
        • 

    
    provides various retreading and related services for truck and
    OTR tires, primarily for its commercial truck tire customers,








     
        • 

    
    offers automotive repair services at retail outlets, and








     
        • 

    
    provides miscellaneous other products and services.





 



    Markets
    and Other Information


 


    Tire unit sales to replacement customers and to OE customers
    served by EMEA during the periods indicated were:


 



    EUROPE,
    MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA TIRE UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT
    AND OE


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,


 




    (In millions of tires)


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 



 






    Replacement tire units



 


 


    52.8


 


 


 


    55.9


 


 


 


    58.8


 





    OE tire units



 


 


    13.2


 


 


 


    17.7


 


 


 


    20.8


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total tire units



 


 


    66.0


 


 


 


    73.6


 


 


 


    79.6


 








 


    EMEA is a significant supplier of tires to most manufacturers of
    automobiles, trucks and farm and construction equipment located
    in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.


 


    EMEA’s main competitors are Michelin, Bridgestone,
    Continental, Pirelli, several regional and local tire producers
    and imports from other regions, primarily Asia.


 


    Goodyear and Dunlop brand tires are sold in several replacement
    areas served by EMEA through various channels of distribution,
    principally independent multi-brand tire dealers. In some areas,
    Goodyear brand tires, as well as Dunlop, Fulda, Debica and Sava
    brand tires, are distributed through independent dealers,
    regional distributors and retail outlets, of which approximately
    200 are owned by Goodyear.


 



    Latin
    American Tire


 


    Our Latin American Tire segment manufactures and sells
    automobile, truck and farm tires throughout Central and South
    America and in Mexico, sells tires to various export markets,
    retreads and sells commercial truck, aviation and OTR tires, and
    provides other products and services. Latin American Tire
    manufactures tires in six facilities in Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
    Peru and Venezuela.


 


    Latin American Tire manufactures and sells several lines of
    passenger, light and medium truck and farm tires. Latin American
    Tire also:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    manufactures and sells pre-cured treads for truck tires,








     
        • 

    
    retreads, and provides various materials and related services
    for retreading, truck and aviation tires,








     
        • 

    
    manufactures other products, including OTR tires,








     
        • 

    
    manufactures and sells new aviation tires, and








     
        • 

    
    provides miscellaneous other products and services.







    
    6



Table of Contents




 



    Markets
    and Other Information


 


    Tire unit sales to replacement customers and to OE customers
    served by Latin American Tire during the periods indicated were:


 



    LATIN
    AMERICAN TIRE UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT AND
    OE


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,


 




    (In millions of tires)


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 



 






    Replacement tire units



 


 


    13.1


 


 


 


    13.9


 


 


 


    14.7


 





    OE tire units



 


 


    6.0


 


 


 


    6.1


 


 


 


    7.1


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total tire units



 


 


    19.1


 


 


 


    20.0


 


 


 


    21.8


 








 


    Latin American Tire is a significant supplier of tires to most
    manufacturers of automobiles, trucks and farm and construction
    equipment located in the region. Goodyear brand tires are sold
    for replacement primarily through independent dealers.
    Significant competitors include Pirelli, Bridgestone, Michelin
    and Continental.


 



    Asia
    Pacific Tire


 


    Our Asia Pacific Tire segment manufactures and sells tires for
    automobiles, light and medium trucks, farm, construction and
    mining equipment and the aviation industry throughout the Asia
    Pacific region. Asia Pacific Tire manufactures tires in eight
    plants in China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Taiwan and
    Thailand. Asia Pacific Tire also:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    retreads truck tires and aviation tires,








     
        • 

    
    manufactures tread rubber and other tire retreading materials
    for truck and aviation tires,








     
        • 

    
    provides automotive maintenance and repair services at retail
    outlets, and








     
        • 

    
    provides miscellaneous other products and services.





 



    Markets
    and Other Information


 


    Tire unit sales to replacement customers and OE customers served
    by Asia Pacific Tire during the periods indicated were:


 



    ASIA
    PACIFIC TIRE UNIT SALES — REPLACEMENT AND OE


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,


 




    (In millions of tires)


 


    2009


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2007


 



 






    Replacement tire units



 


 


    12.1


 


 


 


    12.9


 


 


 


    12.7


 





    OE tire units



 


 


    7.1


 


 


 


    6.9


 


 


 


    6.3


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total tire units



 


 


    19.2


 


 


 


    19.8


 


 


 


    19.0


 








 


    Asia Pacific Tire’s major competitors are Bridgestone and
    Michelin along with many other global brands present in
    different areas, including Continental, Dunlop, Yokohama,
    Pirelli, and a large number of regional and local tire producers.


 


    Asia Pacific Tire sells primarily Goodyear brand tires
    throughout the region and also sells the Dunlop brand in
    Australia and New Zealand. Other brands of tires are sold in
    smaller quantities such as Kelly, Fulda and Sava. Tires are sold
    through a network of licensed or franchised stores and
    multi-brand retailers through a network of wholesale dealers. In
    Australia and New Zealand, we also operate a network of
    approximately 400 retail stores under the Beaurepaires and Frank
    Allen brands.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    GENERAL
    BUSINESS INFORMATION


 



    Sources
    and Availability of Raw Materials


 


    The principal raw materials used by Goodyear are natural and
    synthetic rubber. Natural rubber typically accounts for
    significantly more than half of all rubber consumed by us on an
    annual basis. We purchase all of our requirements for natural
    rubber in the world market. Our plants located in Beaumont, and
    Houston, Texas, supply the major portion of our synthetic rubber
    requirements in North America. We purchase a significant amount
    of our synthetic rubber requirements outside North America from
    third parties.


 


    Significant quantities of steel cord are used for radial tires,
    a portion of which we produce. Other important raw materials we
    use are carbon black, fabrics and petrochemical-based
    commodities. Substantially all of these raw materials are
    purchased from independent suppliers, except for certain
    chemicals we manufacture. We purchase most raw materials in
    significant quantities from several suppliers, except in those
    instances where only one or a few qualified sources are
    available. We anticipate the continued availability of all raw
    materials we will require during 2010, subject to spot shortages
    and unexpected disruptions caused by natural disasters such as
    hurricanes and other similar events.


 


    Substantial quantities of fuel and other petrochemical-based
    commodities are used in the production of tires, synthetic
    rubber and other products. Supplies of such fuels and
    commodities have been and are expected to continue to be
    available to us in quantities sufficient to satisfy our
    anticipated requirements, subject to spot shortages.


 


    In 2009, raw material costs decreased by approximately 2% in our
    tire businesses compared to 2008, primarily driven by a decrease
    in the cost of natural and synthetic rubber. Based on our
    current projections, we expect raw material costs for the first
    half of 2010 to decrease about 5% when compared to the same
    period of 2009, with a first quarter decrease of approximately
    15%. The second half of the year should reflect increases
    approaching 30% as compared to the same period in 2009. However,
    natural rubber prices and petrochemical-based commodity prices
    have experienced significant volatility, and this estimate could
    change significantly based on fluctuations in the cost of these
    and other key raw materials.


 



    Patents
    and Trademarks


 


    We own approximately 2,500 product, process and equipment
    patents issued by the United States Patent Office and
    approximately 3,700 patents issued or granted in other countries
    around the world. We also have licenses under numerous patents
    of others. We have approximately 500 applications for United
    States patents pending and approximately 2,100 patent
    applications on file in other countries around the world. While
    such patents, patent applications and licenses as a group are
    important, we do not consider any patent, patent application or
    license, or any related group of them, to be of such importance
    that the loss or expiration thereof would materially affect
    Goodyear or any business segment.


 


    We own, control or use approximately 1,700 different trademarks,
    including several using the word “Goodyear” or the
    word “Dunlop.” Approximately 11,200 registrations and
    800 pending applications worldwide protect these trademarks.
    While such trademarks as a group are important, the only
    trademarks we consider material to our business, or to the
    business of any of our segments, are those using the word
    “Goodyear,” and with respect to certain of our
    international business segments, those using the word
    “Dunlop.” We believe our trademarks are valid and most
    are of unlimited duration as long as they are adequately
    protected and appropriately used.


 



    Backlog


 


    Our backlog of orders is not considered material to, or a
    significant factor in, evaluating and understanding any of our
    business segments or our businesses considered as a whole.




    
    8



Table of Contents




 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Our direct and indirect expenditures on research, development
    and certain engineering activities relating to the design,
    development and significant modification of new and existing
    products and services and the formulation and design of new, and
    significant improvements to existing, manufacturing processes
    and equipment during the periods indicated were:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Year Ended December 31,




    (In millions)


 


    2009


 


    2008


 


    2007



 






    Research and development expenditures



 


    $


    337


 


 


    $


    366


 


 


    $


    372


 








 



    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    69,000 full-time and temporary people throughout the world,
    including approximately 39,000 people covered under
    collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2008, we
    employed approximately 75,000 full-time and temporary
    people throughout the world, including approximately
    42,000 people covered under collective bargaining
    agreements. Approximately 10,000 of our employees in the United
    States are covered by a master collective bargaining agreement
    with the United Steelworkers (“USW”), which expires in
    July 2013. Approximately 17,000 of our employees outside of the
    United States are covered by union contracts which currently
    have expired or that will expire in 2010, primarily in Brazil,
    Germany, Turkey and South Africa. In addition, approximately
    1,000 of our employees in the United States are covered by other
    contracts with the USW and various other unions. Unions
    represent the major portion of our employees in Europe, Latin
    America and Asia.


 



    Compliance
    with Environmental Regulations


 


    We are subject to extensive regulation under environmental and
    occupational health and safety laws and regulations. These laws
    and regulations relate to, among other things, air emissions,
    discharges to surface and underground waters and the generation,
    handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste
    materials and hazardous substances. We have several continuing
    programs designed to ensure compliance with Federal, state and
    local environmental and occupational safety and health laws and
    regulations. We expect capital expenditures for pollution
    control facilities and occupational safety and health projects
    will be approximately $68 million during 2010 and
    approximately $62 million during 2011.


 


    We expended approximately $47 million during 2009, and
    expect to expend approximately the same amount during both 2010
    and 2011 to maintain and operate our pollution control
    facilities and conduct our other environmental activities,
    including the control and disposal of hazardous substances.
    These expenditures are expected to be sufficient to comply with
    existing environmental laws and regulations and are not expected
    to have a material adverse effect on our competitive position.


 


    In the future, we may incur increased costs and additional
    charges associated with environmental compliance and cleanup
    projects necessitated by the identification of new waste sites,
    the impact of new environmental laws and regulatory standards,
    or the availability of new technologies. Compliance with
    Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations in
    the future may require a material increase in our capital
    expenditures and could adversely affect our earnings and
    competitive position.


 



    INFORMATION
    ABOUT INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS


 


    We engage in manufacturing
    and/or sales
    operations in most countries in the world, often through
    subsidiary companies. We have manufacturing operations in 23
    countries, including the United States. Most of our
    international manufacturing operations are engaged in the
    production of tires. Certain other products are also
    manufactured in plants located outside the United States.
    Financial information related to our geographic areas for the
    three year period ended December 31, 2009 appears in the
    Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements No. 17,
    Business Segments, and is incorporated herein by reference.


 


    In addition to the ordinary risks of the marketplace, in some
    countries our operations are affected by price controls, import
    controls, labor regulations, tariffs, extreme inflation
    and/or
    fluctuations in currency values. Furthermore, in certain
    countries where we operate, transfers of funds into or out of
    such countries are generally or periodically subject to various
    restrictive governmental regulations. See “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our
    international operations.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


 


    Set forth below are: (1) the names and ages of all
    executive and certain other officers of the Company at
    February 18, 2010, (2) all positions with the Company
    presently held by each such person and (3) the positions
    held by, and principal areas of responsibility of, each such
    person during the last five years.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Name



 



    Position(s) Held



 


    Age



 






    Robert J. Keegan



 


    Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer
    and President


 


    62




    Mr. Keegan joined Goodyear on October 1, 2000. He was
    elected President and Chief Operating Officer and a Director of
    the Company on October 3, 2000, and President and Chief
    Executive Officer of the Company effective January 1, 2003.
    Effective June 30, 2003, he became Chairman. He is the
    principal executive officer of the Company.




 


 


 


 


 




    Richard J. Kramer


 


    Chief Operating Officer


 


    46




    Mr. Kramer joined Goodyear on March 6, 2000, when he
    was appointed a Vice President for corporate finance. On
    April 10, 2000, Mr. Kramer was elected Vice
    President — Corporate Finance, serving in that
    capacity as the Company’s principal accounting officer
    until August 6, 2002, when he was elected Vice President,
    Finance — North American Tire. Effective
    August 28, 2003, he was appointed and, on October 7,
    2003, he was elected Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning
    and Restructuring. He was elected Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer on June 1, 2004. Mr. Kramer
    was elected President, North American Tire on March 14,
    2007 and continued to serve as Chief Financial Officer until
    August 7, 2007. On June 2, 2009, Mr. Kramer was
    elected Chief Operating Officer and continued to serve as
    President, North American Tire until February 16, 2010.
    Mr. Kramer is the executive officer responsible for
    Goodyear’s global operations.




 


 


 


 


 




    Curt J. Andersson


 


    President, North American Tire


 


    48




    Mr. Andersson was appointed President, North American Tire
    on February 16, 2010. Mr. Andersson is the executive
    officer responsible for Goodyear’s tire operations in North
    America. Prior to joining Goodyear, Mr. Andersson was
    President of the Crouse-Hinds division of Cooper Industries plc,
    a global manufacturer of electrical products, for the past six
    years.




 


 


 


 


 




    Arthur de Bok


 


    President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire


 


    47




    After joining Goodyear on December 31, 2001, Mr. de Bok
    served in various managerial positions in Goodyear’s
    European operations. Mr. de Bok was appointed President,
    European Union Tire on September 16, 2005, and was elected
    to that position on October 4, 2005. Effective
    February 1, 2008, Mr. de Bok became President, Europe,
    Middle East and Africa Tire, the new operating segment created
    by the combination of Goodyear’s European Union and Eastern
    Europe business units. Mr. de Bok is the executive officer
    responsible for Goodyear’s tire operations in Europe, the
    Middle East and Africa.




 


 


 


 


 




    Eduardo A. Fortunato


 


    President, Latin American Tire


 


    56




    Mr. Fortunato served in various international managerial,
    sales and marketing posts with Goodyear until he was elected
    President and Managing Director of Goodyear Brazil in 2000. On
    November 4, 2003, Mr. Fortunato was elected President,
    Latin American Tire. Mr. Fortunato is the executive officer
    responsible for Goodyear’s tire operations in Mexico,
    Central America and South America. He has been a Goodyear
    employee since 1975.




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




    Pierre E. Cohade


 


    President, Asia Pacific Tire


 


    48




    Mr. Cohade joined Goodyear in October 2004 and was elected
    President, Asia Pacific Tire on October 5, 2004.
    Mr. Cohade is the executive officer responsible for
    Goodyear’s tire operations in Asia, Australia and the
    Western Pacific.




 


 


 


 


 




    Darren R. Wells


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


 


    44




    Mr. Wells joined Goodyear on August 1, 2002 and was
    elected Vice President and Treasurer on August 6, 2002.
    Mr. Wells was named Senior Vice President, Business
    Development and Treasurer on May 11, 2005, was named Senior
    Vice President, Finance and Strategy on March 14, 2007, and
    was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    on October 17, 2008. Mr. Wells is Goodyear’s
    principal financial officer.






    
    10



Table of Contents








     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Name



 



    Position(s) Held



 


    Age



 





    Damon J. Audia


 


    Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer


 


    39




    Mr. Audia joined Goodyear in December 2004 as Assistant
    Treasurer, Capital Markets and was elected Vice President and
    Treasurer effective March 14, 2007. On December 9,
    2008, Mr. Audia was elected Senior Vice President, Finance
    and Treasurer. Mr. Audia is the executive officer
    responsible for Goodyear’s treasury, risk management,
    investor relations and tax functions.




 


 


 


 


 




    David L. Bialosky


 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


 


    52




    Mr. Bialosky was elected Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary effective September 23, 2009. He is
    Goodyear’s chief legal officer. Prior to joining Goodyear,
    Mr. Bialosky served in legal positions of increasing
    responsibility at TRW Inc., TRW Automotive Inc. and TRW
    Automotive Holdings Corp. for 20 years, including most
    recently as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of TRW Automotive Holdings (and its predecessor, TRW
    Automotive), a global supplier of automotive parts, from April
    2004 until September 2009.




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




    John D. Fish


 


    Senior Vice President, Global Operations


 


    52




    Mr. Fish was elected Senior Vice President, Global
    Operations on October 6, 2009. He is the executive officer
    responsible for Goodyear’s global manufacturing and related
    supply chain activities. Prior to joining Goodyear,
    Mr. Fish served in operations, manufacturing and supply
    chain positions of increasing responsibility at General Electric
    Company for almost 29 years, including most recently as
    Vice President of consumer global supply chain for GE’s
    Consumer and Industrial business from 2004 until October 2009.




 


 


 


 


 




    Jean-Claude Kihn


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer


 


    50




    Mr. Kihn served in various managerial and technical posts,
    most recently as General Director of Goodyear’s Technical
    Center in Akron, Ohio, prior to his election as Senior Vice
    President and Chief Technical Officer effective on
    January 1, 2008. Mr. Kihn is the executive officer
    responsible for Goodyear’s research and tire technology
    development, engineering and product quality worldwide. He has
    been a Goodyear employee since 1988.




 


 


 


 


 




    Joseph B. Ruocco


 


    Senior Vice President, Human Resources


 


    50




    Mr. Ruocco was appointed Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources on August 1, 2008, and was elected to that
    position on August 5, 2008. Mr. Ruocco is the
    executive officer responsible for Goodyear’s human
    resources activities worldwide. Prior to joining Goodyear,
    Mr. Ruocco served in human resources positions of
    increasing responsibility at General Electric Company for
    23 years, including as Vice President, Human Resources, GE
    Consumer and Industrial from December 2003 to December 2006, and
    Vice President, Human Resources, GE Industrial from December
    2006 to July 2008.




 


 


 


 


 




    Charles L. Sinclair


 


    Senior Vice President, Global Communications


 


    58




    Mr. Sinclair served in various public relations and
    communications positions until 2002, when he was named Vice
    President, Public Relations and Communications for North
    American Tire. Effective June 16, 2003, he was appointed
    and, on August 5, 2003, he was elected Senior Vice
    President, Global Communications. Mr. Sinclair is the
    executive officer responsible for Goodyear’s worldwide
    communications activities. He has been a Goodyear employee since
    1984.




 


 


 


 


 




    Thomas A. Connell


 


    Vice President and Controller, and Chief Information
    Officer


 


    61




    Mr. Connell joined Goodyear on September 1, 2003 and
    served as Vice President and Controller until February 2008.
    Mr. Connell was elected Vice President and Chief
    Information Officer effective March 1, 2008 and was elected
    Vice President and Controller on December 9, 2008.
    Mr. Connell is Goodyear’s principal accounting officer
    and is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear’s
    information technology function.




 


 


 


 


 




    Isabel H. Jasinowski


 


    Vice President, Government Relations


 


    61




    Ms. Jasinowski served in various government relations posts
    until she was appointed Vice President of Government Relations
    in 1995. On April 2, 2001, Ms. Jasinowski was elected
    Vice President, Government Relations, serving as the executive
    officer primarily responsible for Goodyear’s governmental
    relations and public policy activities. She has been a Goodyear
    employee since 1981.






    
    11



Table of Contents








     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Name



 



    Position(s) Held



 


    Age



 





    Stephen R. McClellan


 


    President, Consumer Tires, North American Tire


 


    44




    Mr. McClellan served in various finance and retail
    management positions with Goodyear until he was named President
    of Wingfoot Commercial Tire Systems in December 2001. He was
    appointed Vice President, Goodyear Commercial Tire Systems in
    September 2003 and was appointed President, Consumer Tires,
    North American Tire on August 1, 2008 and was elected
    to that position on October 7, 2008. Mr. McClellan is
    the executive officer responsible for the business activities of
    Goodyear’s consumer tire business in North America. He
    has been a Goodyear employee since 1987.




 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 




    Richard J. Noechel


 


    Vice President, Finance, North American Tire


 


    41




    Mr. Noechel joined Goodyear in October 2004 as Assistant
    Controller. He was Chief Financial Officer of Goodyear’s
    South Pacific Tyre subsidiary in Australia from April 2006 to
    February 2008 and was Vice President and Controller from
    March 1, 2008 until his election as Vice President,
    Finance, North American Tire on December 9, 2008.
    Mr. Noechel is the executive officer responsible for the
    finance activities of Goodyear’s tire operations in North
    America.




 


 


 


 


 




    Mark W. Purtilar


 


    Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer


 


    49




    Mr. Purtilar was elected Vice President and Chief
    Procurement Officer effective September 17, 2007. He is the
    executive officer primarily responsible for Goodyear’s
    global procurement activities. Prior to joining Goodyear,
    Mr. Purtilar was vice president of global procurement for
    commercial vehicle systems at ArvinMeritor Automotive Inc., a
    global supplier of automotive parts, from 2004 until September
    2007.




 


 


 


 


 




    Michel Rzonzef


 


    President, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa Countries,
    Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire


 


    46




    Mr. Rzonzef served in various managerial, sales and
    marketing, and engineering posts until December 1, 2002
    when he was appointed Vice President, Sales and Marketing for
    our former Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire strategic
    business unit. Effective February 1, 2008, Mr. Rzonzef
    was appointed President, Eastern Europe, Middle East and
    Africa Countries within our Europe, Middle East and Africa Tire
    strategic business unit. He has been a Goodyear employee since
    1988.




 


 


 


 


 




    Laura K. Thompson


 


    Vice President, Business Development


 


    45




    Ms. Thompson served in various finance and accounting
    management positions with Goodyear until she was appointed Vice
    President, Business Development on June 1, 2005.
    Ms. Thompson was elected to that position on April 8,
    2008. Ms. Thompson is the officer responsible for
    Goodyear’s acquisition, divestiture and partnership
    activities. She has been a Goodyear employee since 1983.








 


    No family relationship exists between any of the above executive
    officers or between the executive officers and any director of
    the Company.


 


    Each executive officer is elected by the Board of Directors of
    the Company at its annual meeting to a term of one year or until
    his or her successor is duly elected. In those instances where
    the person is elected at other than an annual meeting, such
    person’s term will expire at the next annual meeting.




    
    12



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    You should carefully consider the risks described below and
    other information contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    when considering an investment decision with respect to our
    securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also
    impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in
    the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business,
    results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be
    materially adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading
    price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or
    part of your investment.


 



    If we
    do not achieve projected savings from our cost reduction
    initiatives, including our new USW collective bargaining
    agreement, or successfully implement other strategic initiatives
    our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be
    materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business continues to be impacted by trends that have
    negatively affected the tire industry in general, and several of
    these trends were made more acute during the global recession in
    2009. These negative trends include industry overcapacity, which
    limits our ability to obtain price relief, difficult economic
    conditions in many parts of the world, which depresses demand
    for original equipment tires and replacement tires in both our
    consumer and commercial businesses, volatile and high raw
    material and energy costs, which increase the cost of
    manufacturing, and increasing competition from low-cost
    manufacturers. If these overall trends continue or worsen, then
    our operational and financial condition could be adversely
    affected. Unlike most other tire manufacturers, we also face the
    continuing burden of legacy pension costs.


 


    In order to offset the impact of these trends, we continue to
    implement various cost reduction initiatives and expect to
    achieve $1.0 billion in aggregate gross cost savings from
    2010 through 2012 through our four-point cost savings plan,
    which includes expected savings from continuous improvement
    initiatives, including savings under our USW agreement described
    below, increased low-cost country sourcing, high-cost capacity
    reductions and reduced selling, administrative and general
    expenses.


 


    We have entered into a new four-year contract with the USW in
    September 2009 for our seven USW-represented tire plants in the
    United States. The new contract enhances the competitiveness of
    those plants through improvements in productivity, wage and
    benefit savings and added flexibility. These changes are
    expected to provide us with cost savings of approximately
    $215 million over the term of the contract. Combined with
    savings realized through pre-bargain agreements to reduce
    staffing levels at five plants, the Company expects to realize
    $555 million in total savings over the term of the
    agreements. If we fail to successfully implement the
    improvements in productivity and flexibility permitted by our
    new USW agreements, we may be unable to realize all of the
    expected cost savings and our competitive position may be
    harmed. In turn, our results of operations and financial
    condition could be materially adversely affected.


 


    Our performance is also dependent on our ability to continue to
    improve the proportion, or mix, of higher margin tires we sell.
    In order to continue this improvement, we must be successful in
    marketing and selling products that offer higher margins such as
    the Assurance, Fuel Max, Eagle and Fortera lines of tires and in
    developing additional higher margin tires that achieve broad
    market acceptance in North America and elsewhere. Shifts in
    consumer demand away from higher margin tires could materially
    adversely affect our business.


 


    We cannot assure you that our cost reduction and other
    initiatives will be successful. If not, we may not be able to
    achieve or sustain future profitability, which would impair our
    ability to meet our debt and other obligations and would
    otherwise negatively affect our financial condition, results of
    operations and liquidity.


 



    Our
    long term ability to meet our obligations and to repay maturing
    indebtedness may be dependent on our ability to access capital
    markets in the future and to improve our operating
    results.


 


    The adequacy of our liquidity depends on our ability to achieve
    an appropriate combination of operating improvements, financing
    from third parties and access to capital markets. We may need to
    undertake additional financing actions in the capital markets in
    order to ensure that our future liquidity requirements are
    addressed. These actions may include the issuance of additional
    debt or equity.




    
    13



Table of Contents





    Our access to the capital markets cannot be assured and is
    dependent on, among other things, the ability and willingness of
    financial institutions to extend credit on terms that are
    acceptable to us, or to honor future draws on our existing lines
    of credit, and the degree of success we have in implementing our
    cost reduction plans and improving the results of our North
    American Tire segment. Future liquidity requirements, or our
    inability to access cash deposits or make draws on our lines of
    credit, also may make it necessary for us to incur additional
    debt. A substantial portion of our assets is subject to liens
    securing our indebtedness. As a result, we are limited in our
    ability to pledge our remaining assets as security for
    additional secured indebtedness.


 


    Our inability to access the capital markets or incur additional
    debt in the future could have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity and operations, and could require us to consider
    further measures, including deferring planned capital
    expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling
    additional assets and restructuring existing debt.


 



    We
    face significant global competition and our market share could
    decline.


 


    New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions
    throughout the world. We compete with other tire manufacturers
    on the basis of product design, performance, price and terms,
    reputation, warranty terms, customer service and consumer
    convenience. On a worldwide basis, we have two major
    competitors, Bridgestone (based in Japan) and Michelin (based in
    France), that have large shares of the markets of the countries
    in which they are based and are aggressively seeking to maintain
    or improve their worldwide market share. Other significant
    competitors include Continental, Cooper, Hankook, Pirelli, Toyo,
    Yokohama and various regional tire manufacturers. Our
    competitors produce significant numbers of tires in low-cost
    countries. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in
    significant part, on our ability to continue to innovate and
    manufacture the types of tires demanded by consumers, and to
    reduce costs by such means as reducing excess capacity,
    leveraging global purchasing, improving productivity,
    eliminating redundancies and increasing production at low-cost
    supply sources. If we are unable to compete successfully, our
    market share may decline, materially adversely affecting our
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Our
    pension plans are significantly underfunded and, in the future,
    the underfunding levels of our pension plans and our pension
    expenses could materially increase.


 


    Many of our U.S. and our
    non-U.S. employees
    participate in defined benefit pension plans, although effective
    December 31, 2008 we froze our U.S. salaried pension
    plans and effective August 29, 2009 we closed participation
    in our U.S. hourly pension plans for employees covered by
    the United Steelworkers master labor contract. We have
    experienced periods of declines in interest rates and pension
    asset values. As a result, our pension plans are significantly
    underfunded. Further declines in interest rates or the market
    values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other
    changes, could materially increase the underfunded status of our
    plans in 2010 and beyond and affect the level and timing of
    required contributions in 2011 and beyond. The unfunded amount
    of the projected benefit obligation for our U.S. and
    non-U.S. pension
    plans was $1,931 million and $784 million,
    respectively, at December 31, 2009, and we currently
    estimate that we will be required to make contributions to our
    funded U.S. pension plans of approximately
    $200 million to $225 million in 2010, and
    $400 million to $450 million in 2011. The current
    underfunded status of our pension plans will, and a further
    material increase in the underfunded status of the plans would,
    significantly increase our required contributions and pension
    expenses, which could impair our ability to achieve or sustain
    future profitability.


 



    Higher
    raw material and energy costs may materially adversely affect
    our operating results and financial condition.


 


    Raw material costs increased significantly over the past few
    years, and may continue to do so, driven by increases in prices
    of petrochemical-based commodities and natural rubber. Market
    conditions may prevent us from passing these increased costs on
    to our customers through timely price increases. Additionally,
    higher raw material costs around the world may offset our
    efforts to reduce our cost structure. As a result, higher raw
    material and energy costs could result in declining margins and
    operating results and adversely affect our financial condition.
    The volatility of raw material costs may cause our margins,
    operating results and liquidity to fluctuate.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    Financial
    difficulties, work stoppages, supply disruptions or economic
    conditions affecting our major OE customers, dealers or
    suppliers could harm our business.


 


    The recent recessionary economic conditions in many parts of the
    world have negatively impacted our operations in several ways.
    For instance, market turmoil and tightening credit has led to a
    lack of consumer confidence and a widespread reduction of
    business activity generally and specifically to a significant
    decline in vehicle purchases from our OE customers, which
    reduces our net sales. In 2009, our OE customers experienced
    significant difficulty, particularly in the U.S., due to the
    severe weakness of the North American auto industry. As a
    result, both General Motors and Chrysler filed for bankruptcy in
    2009.


 


    Although sales to our OE customers account for less than 20% of
    our net sales, demand for our products by OE customers and
    production levels at our facilities are directly related to
    automotive vehicle production. We continued to experience
    declines in sales volume during 2009 compared to 2008 due to
    reduced production at our OE customers in response to lower
    demand for new vehicles and weakness in demand for replacement
    tires. The decline in our sales volume and the resulting
    production cuts have resulted in additional under-absorbed fixed
    costs. We may also experience a future decline in sales volume
    due to a continued decline in new vehicle sales, the
    discontinuation or sale of certain OE brands, platforms or
    programs or continued weakness in demand for replacement tires,
    possibly resulting in additional under-absorbed fixed costs at
    our production facilities. Automotive production can also be
    affected by labor relation issues, financial difficulties or
    supply disruptions. Our OE customers could experience production
    disruptions resulting from their own or supplier labor,
    financial or supply difficulties. Such events may cause an OE
    customer to reduce or suspend vehicle production. As a result,
    an OE customer could halt or significantly reduce purchases of
    our products, which would harm our results of operations,
    financial condition and liquidity.


 


    In addition, the further bankruptcy, restructuring or
    consolidation of one or more of our major OE customers, dealers
    or suppliers could result in the write-off of accounts
    receivable, a reduction in purchases of our products or a supply
    disruption to our facilities, which could negatively affect our
    results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 



    Pricing
    pressures from vehicle manufacturers may materially adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Pricing pressure from vehicle manufacturers has been a
    characteristic of the tire industry in recent years. Many
    vehicle manufacturers have policies of seeking price reductions
    each year. Although we have taken steps to reduce costs and
    resist price reductions, current and future price reductions
    could materially adversely impact our sales and profit margins.
    If we are unable to offset future price reductions through
    improved operating efficiencies and cost reductions, those price
    reductions may result in declining margins and operating results.


 



    If we
    fail to extend or renegotiate our primary collective bargaining
    contracts with our labor unions as they expire from time to
    time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike
    or other work stoppage or interruption, our business, financial
    position, results of operations and liquidity could be
    materially adversely affected.


 


    We are a party to collective bargaining contracts with our labor
    unions, which represent a significant number of our employees.
    Approximately 17,000 of our employees outside of the United
    States are covered by union contracts that have expired or are
    expiring in 2010 primarily in Brazil, Germany, Turkey and South
    Africa. Although we believe that our relations with our
    employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we
    will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our
    collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to
    time. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective
    bargaining agreements, if disputes with our unions arise, or if
    our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage
    or interruption, we could experience a significant disruption
    of, or inefficiencies in, our operations or incur higher labor
    costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial position, results of operations and
    liquidity.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    We
    have a substantial amount of debt, which could restrict our
    growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise
    materially adversely affect our financial health.


 


    We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31,
    2009, our debt (including capital leases) on a consolidated
    basis was approximately $4.5 billion. Our substantial
    amount of debt and other obligations could have important
    consequences. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;








     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development,
    acquisitions or general corporate requirements;








     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;








     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we would need to dedicate a substantial
    portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;








     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate; and








     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors.





 


    The agreements governing our debt, including our credit
    agreements, limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring
    additional debt and we may incur a significant amount of
    additional debt in the future, including additional secured
    debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, our
    ability to satisfy our debt obligations may become more limited.


 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our
    debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and
    operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability
    to implement our cost reduction initiatives and other
    strategies, prevailing economic conditions and certain
    financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our
    cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our
    debt service and other obligations, including required pension
    contributions, we may be forced to reduce or delay expansion
    plans and capital expenditures, sell material assets or
    operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt.
    We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow
    and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our debt
    obligations when they become due. We cannot assure you that we
    would be able to dispose of material assets or operations or
    restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even
    if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on
    terms that are acceptable to us.


 



    Any
    failure to be in compliance with any material provision or
    covenant of our debt instruments, or a material reduction in the
    borrowing base under our revolving credit facility, could have a
    material adverse effect on our liquidity and
    operations.


 


    The indentures and other agreements governing our secured credit
    facilities, senior unsecured notes and our other outstanding
    indebtedness impose significant operating and financial
    restrictions on us. These restrictions may affect our ability to
    operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage
    of potential business opportunities as they arise. These
    restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional debt or issue redeemable preferred stock;








     
        • 

    
    pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments or
    investments;








     
        • 

    
    incur liens;








     
        • 

    
    sell assets;








     
        • 

    
    incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay
    dividends to us;








     
        • 

    
    enter into affiliate transactions;








     
        • 

    
    engage in sale/leaseback transactions; and








     
        • 

    
    engage in certain mergers or consolidations or transfers of
    substantially all of our assets.





 


    Availability under our first lien revolving credit facility is
    subject to a borrowing base, which is based on eligible accounts
    receivable and inventory. To the extent that our eligible
    accounts receivable and inventory decline, our borrowing base
    will decrease and the availability under that facility may
    decrease below its stated amount. In addition, if at any time
    the amount of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit under
    that facility exceeds the





    
    16



Table of Contents





    borrowing base, we are required to prepay borrowings
    and/or cash
    collateralize letters of credit sufficient to eliminate the
    excess.


 


    Our ability to comply with these covenants or to maintain our
    borrowing base may be affected by events beyond our control,
    including deteriorating economic conditions, and these events
    could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or
    alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We
    cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative
    financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms
    acceptable to us.


 


    A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in
    any of our existing or future financing agreements, including
    the financial covenants in our secured credit facilities, could
    result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a
    default could allow the lenders under our financing agreements,
    if the agreements so provide, to discontinue lending, to
    accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a
    cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies,
    and/or to
    declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and
    payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any
    commitments they have to provide us with further funds. If any
    of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have
    sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of
    obligations that become due as a result of any such
    acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or
    alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated
    obligations. Even if we obtain additional or alternative
    financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that
    would be acceptable to us.


 


    We cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in
    compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the
    future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain
    waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.


 



    Our
    capital expenditures may not be adequate to maintain our
    competitive position and may not be implemented in a timely or
    cost-effective manner.


 


    Our capital expenditures are limited by our liquidity and
    capital resources and the amount we have available for capital
    spending is limited by the need to pay our other expenses and to
    maintain adequate cash reserves and borrowing capacity to meet
    unexpected demands that may arise. We believe that our ratio of
    capital expenditures to sales is lower than the comparable ratio
    for our principal competitors.


 


    Productivity improvements through process re-engineering, design
    efficiency and manufacturing cost improvements may be required
    to offset potential increases in labor and raw material costs
    and competitive price pressures. In addition, as part of our
    strategy to increase the percentage of tires that are produced
    at our lower-cost production facilities and to increase our
    capacity to produce higher margin tires, we may need to
    modernize or expand our facilities. We may not have sufficient
    resources to implement planned capital expenditures with minimal
    disruption to our existing manufacturing operations, or within
    desired time frames and budgets. Any disruption to our
    operations, delay in implementing capital improvements or
    unexpected costs may materially adversely affect our business
    and results of operations.


 


    If we are unable to make sufficient capital expenditures, or to
    maximize the efficiency of the capital expenditures we do make,
    we may be unable to achieve productivity improvements, which may
    harm our competitive position. In addition, plant modernizations
    may temporarily disrupt our manufacturing operations and lead to
    temporary increases in our costs.


 



    Our
    variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk,
    which could cause our debt service obligations to increase
    significantly.


 


    Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and
    expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our
    debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would
    increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same,
    which would require us to use more of our available cash to
    service our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will
    be able to enter into swap agreements or other hedging
    arrangements in the future, or that existing or future hedging
    arrangements will offset increases in interest rates. As of
    December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.0 billion
    of variable rate debt outstanding.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    We
    have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our operating
    income fluctuates disproportionately with changes in our net
    sales.


 


    We operate with significant operating and financial leverage.
    Significant portions of our manufacturing, selling,
    administrative and general expenses are fixed costs that neither
    increase nor decrease proportionately with sales. In addition, a
    significant portion of our interest expense is fixed. There can
    be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our fixed costs
    proportionately in response to a decline in our net sales and
    therefore our competitiveness could be significantly impacted.
    As a result, a decline in our net sales would result in a higher
    percentage decline in our income from operations and net income.


 



    We may
    incur significant costs in connection with asbestos
    claims.


 


    We are among many defendants named in legal proceedings
    involving claims of individuals relating to alleged exposure to
    asbestos. At December 31, 2009, approximately 90,200 claims
    were pending against us alleging various asbestos-related
    personal injuries purported to have resulted from alleged
    exposure to asbestos in certain rubber encapsulated products or
    aircraft braking systems manufactured by us in the past or to
    asbestos in certain of our facilities. We expect that additional
    claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate
    liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is
    subject to various uncertainties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the number of claims that are brought in the future;








     
        • 

    
    the costs of defending and settling these claims;








     
        • 

    
    the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers;








     
        • 

    
    the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to
    pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we
    have historically settled claims;








     
        • 

    
    the risk of changes in the litigation environment or Federal and
    state law governing the compensation of asbestos
    claimants; and








     
        • 

    
    the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may
    increase our costs.





 


    Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is
    possible that we may incur a material amount in excess of our
    current reserve for such claims. In addition, if any of the
    foregoing risks were to materialize, the resulting costs could
    have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial
    position and results of operations in future periods. For
    further information regarding our asbestos liabilities, refer to
    the Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements, No. 20,
    Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.


 



    We may
    be required to provide letters of credit or post cash collateral
    if we are subject to a significant adverse judgment or if we are
    unable to obtain surety bonds, which may have a material adverse
    effect on our liquidity.


 


    We are subject to various legal proceedings. If we wish to
    appeal any future adverse judgment in any of these proceedings,
    we may be required to post an appeal bond with the relevant
    court. In that case, we may be required to issue a letter of
    credit to the surety posting the bond. We may issue up to an
    aggregate of $800 million in letters of credit under our
    $1.5 billion U.S. senior secured first lien credit
    facility. As of December 31, 2009, we had $494 million
    in letters of credit issued and $892 million of remaining
    availability under this facility. If we are subject to a
    significant adverse judgment and do not have sufficient
    availability under our credit facilities to issue a letter of
    credit to support an appeal bond, we may be required to pay down
    borrowings under the facilities or deposit cash collateral in
    order to stay the enforcement of the judgment pending an appeal.
    If we are unable to post cash collateral, we may be unable to
    stay enforcement of the judgment.


 


    Surety market conditions are currently difficult as a result of
    significant losses incurred by many sureties in recent periods,
    both in the construction industry as well as in certain larger
    corporate bankruptcies. As a result, less bonding capacity is
    available in the market and terms have become more expensive and
    restrictive. Further, under standard terms in the surety market,
    sureties issue or continue bonds on a
    case-by-case
    basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the
    posting of collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any
    bonds. If surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access
    to bonding, we would need to post other forms of collateral,
    such as letters of credit or cash. As described above, we may be
    unable to secure sufficient letters of credit under our credit
    facilities.




    
    18



Table of Contents





    If we were subject to a significant adverse judgment or
    experienced an interruption or reduction in the availability of
    bonding capacity, we may be required to provide letters of
    credit or post cash collateral, which may have a material
    adverse effect on our liquidity.


 



    We are
    subject to extensive government regulations that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation
    through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or
    NHTSA, which has established various standards and regulations
    applicable to tires sold in the United States and tires sold in
    a foreign country that are identical or substantially similar to
    tires sold in the United States. NHTSA has the authority to
    order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having
    safety-related defects.


 


    NHTSA’s regulatory authority was expanded in November 2000
    as a result of the enactment of the Transportation Recall
    Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act, or TREAD
    Act. The TREAD Act imposes numerous requirements with respect to
    the early warning reporting of warranty claims, property damage
    claims, and bodily injury and fatality claims and also requires
    tire manufacturers, among other things, to conform with revised
    and more rigorous tire testing standards. Compliance with the
    TREAD Act regulations has increased, and will continue to
    increase, the cost of producing and distributing tires in the
    United States. In addition, while we believe that our tires are
    free from design and manufacturing defects, it is possible that
    a recall of our tires, under the TREAD Act or otherwise, could
    occur in the future. A substantial recall could have a material
    adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and
    financial position.


 


    In addition, as required by the enactment of an omnibus energy
    bill in December 2007, NHTSA will establish a national tire fuel
    efficiency consumer information program. While the Federal law
    will pre-empt state tire fuel efficiency laws adopted after
    January 1, 2006, we may become subject to additional tire
    fuel efficiency legislation, either in the United States or
    other countries.


 


    Our European operations are subject to regulation by the
    European Union. In 2009, two important regulations, the Tire
    Safety Regulation and the Tire Labeling Regulation, applicable
    to tires sold in the European Union were adopted. The Tire
    Safety Regulation sets minimum performance standards that tires
    need to meet for rolling resistance, wet grip braking and noise
    in order to be sold in the European Union, and will become
    effective between 2012 and 2020. The Tire Labeling Regulation
    applies to all tires produced after July 1, 2012 and
    requires that tires be labeled to inform consumers about the
    tire’s fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise characteristics.
    Additional rules necessary to implement these regulations still
    need to be proposed by the European Commission and agreed upon
    with the national governments and the European Parliament.


 


    These U.S. and European regulations, rules adopted to
    implement these regulations, or other similar regulations that
    may be adopted in the United States, Europe or elsewhere in the
    future may require us to alter or increase our capital spending
    and research and development plans or cease the production of
    certain tires, which could have a material adverse affect on our
    operating results.


 


    Laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational
    safety and health are complicated, change frequently and have
    tended to become stricter over time. As a manufacturing company,
    we are subject to these laws and regulations both inside and
    outside the United States. We may not be in complete compliance
    with such laws and regulations at all times. Our costs or
    liabilities relating to them may be more than the amount we have
    reserved, and that difference may be material.


 


    In addition, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to
    further limitations on the emission of “greenhouse
    gases” due to public policy concerns regarding climate
    change issues or other environmental or health and safety
    concerns. While the form of any additional regulations cannot be
    predicted, a
    “cap-and-trade”
    system similar to the one adopted in the European Union could be
    adopted in the United States. Any such
    “cap-and-trade”
    system (including the system currently in place in the European
    Union) or other limitations imposed on the emission of
    “greenhouse gases” could require us to increase our
    capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits
    or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a
    material adverse affect on our operating results, financial
    condition and liquidity.




    
    19



Table of Contents





    Compliance with the laws and regulations described above or any
    of the myriad of applicable foreign, Federal, state and local
    laws and regulations currently in effect or that may be adopted
    in the future could materially adversely affect our competitive
    position, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.


 



    Our
    international operations have certain risks that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and
    liquidity.


 


    We have manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout the
    world. Our international operations are subject to certain
    inherent risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    exposure to local economic conditions;








     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States;








     
        • 

    
    hostility from local populations and insurrections;








     
        • 

    
    adverse currency exchange controls;








     
        • 

    
    withholding taxes and restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign
    investment and earnings;








     
        • 

    
    labor regulations;








     
        • 

    
    expropriations of property;








     
        • 

    
    the potential instability of foreign governments;








     
        • 

    
    risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements
    with governmental authorities;








     
        • 

    
    export and import restrictions; and








     
        • 

    
    other changes in laws or government policies.





 


    The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on
    us vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Certain
    regions, including Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and
    Africa, are inherently more economically and politically
    volatile and as a result, our business units that operate in
    these regions could be subject to significant fluctuations in
    sales and operating income from quarter to quarter. Because a
    significant percentage of our operating income in recent years
    has come from these regions, adverse fluctuations in the
    operating results in these regions could have a disproportionate
    impact on our results of operations in future periods.


 


    For example, since 2003, Venezuela has imposed currency exchange
    controls that fix the exchange rate between the Venezuelan
    bolivar fuerte and the U.S. dollar and restrict the ability
    to exchange bolivares fuertes for dollars. These restrictions,
    which were tightened in early 2009, may delay or limit our
    ability to pay third-party and affiliated suppliers and to
    otherwise repatriate funds from Venezuela, which could
    materially adversely affect our financial condition and
    liquidity. In addition, if we are unable to pay these suppliers
    in a timely manner, they may cease supplying us. Venezuela has
    also imposed restrictions on the importation of certain raw
    materials. If these suppliers cease supplying us or we are
    unable to import necessary raw materials, we may need to reduce
    or halt production in Venezuela, which could materially
    adversely affect our results of operations.


 


    Furthermore, effective January 1, 2010, Venezuela’s
    economy is considered highly inflationary under
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly,
    all gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of our
    financial statements are required to be recorded directly in the
    statement of operations. On January 8, 2010, the Venezuelan
    government announced the devaluation of its currency, the
    bolivar fuerte, and the establishment of a two-tier exchange
    structure. As a result, we expect to record a charge in the
    first quarter of 2010 in connection with the remeasurement of
    our balance sheet to reflect the devaluation. If calculated at
    the new official exchange rate of 4.30 bolivares fuertes to each
    U.S. dollar, the charge is expected to be approximately
    $150 million, net of tax. If in the future we convert
    bolivares fuertes at a rate other than the official exchange
    rate, we may realize additional gains or losses that would be
    recorded in the statement of operations. For further information
    regarding the Venezuelan currency devaluation and its
    anticipated impact on Goodyear, see “Item 1.
    Business — Recent Developments — Venezuelan
    Currency Devaluation.”


 


    The future results of our Venezuelan operations will be affected
    by many factors, including our ability to take actions to
    mitigate the effect of the devaluation, further actions of the
    Venezuelan government, economic conditions in Venezuela such as
    inflation and consumer spending, and the availability of raw
    materials, utilities and energy. Goodyear Venezuela contributes
    a significant portion of the sales and operating income of our
    Latin American Tire segment. As a result, any disruption of
    Goodyear Venezuela’s operations or of our ability to pay
    suppliers or repatriate





    
    20



Table of Contents





    funds from Venezuela could have a material adverse impact on the
    future performance of our Latin American Tire segment and could
    materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial
    condition and liquidity.


 



    We
    have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may
    materially adversely affect our operating results.


 


    The financial position and results of operations of our
    international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various
    foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at
    the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial
    statements. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against
    these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on our
    reported sales and operating margin (and conversely, the
    weakening of the U.S. dollar against these foreign
    currencies has a positive impact). For the year ended
    December 31, 2009, foreign currency translation unfavorably
    affected sales by $699 million and favorably affected
    segment operating income by $22 million compared to the
    year ended December 31, 2008. The volatility of currency
    exchange rates may materially adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    The
    terms and conditions of our global alliance with Sumitomo Rubber
    Industries, Ltd. provide for exit rights available to SRI upon
    the occurrence of certain events, which could require us to make
    a substantial payment to acquire SRI’s interest in our
    European and North American joint ventures.


 


    Under the global alliance agreements between us and SRI, SRI has
    the right to require us to purchase its ownership interests in
    GDTE and GDTNA if certain triggering events have occurred,
    including certain bankruptcy events, changes in control of
    Goodyear or breaches of the global alliance agreements. While we
    have not done any current valuation of these businesses, any
    payment required to be made to SRI pursuant to an exit under the
    terms of the global alliance agreements could be substantial. We
    cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and
    capital resources would be sufficient to make such a payment or,
    if we were able to make the payment, that there would be
    sufficient funds remaining to satisfy our other obligations. The
    withdrawal of SRI from the global alliance could also have other
    adverse effects on our business, including the loss of
    technology and purchasing synergies. For further information
    regarding our global alliance with SRI, including the events
    that could trigger SRI’s exit rights, see
    “Item 1. Business. Description of Goodyear’s
    Business — Global Alliance.”


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business
    could be materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business substantially depends on the continued service of
    key members of our management. The loss of the services of a
    significant number of members of our management could have a
    material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will
    also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled
    personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management
    professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and
    we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and
    retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we
    do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting
    new high quality employees, our business could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    We may
    be impacted by economic and supply disruptions associated with
    events beyond our control, such as war, acts of terror,
    political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or
    natural disasters.


 


    We manage businesses and facilities worldwide. Our facilities
    and operations, and the facilities and operations of our
    suppliers and customers, could be disrupted by events beyond our
    control, such as war, acts of terror, political unrest, public
    health concerns, labor disputes or natural disasters. Any such
    disruption could cause delays in the production and distribution
    of our products and the loss of sales and customers. We may not
    be insured against all such potential losses and, if insured,
    the insurance proceeds that we receive may not adequately
    compensate us for all of our losses.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B