ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS.


     
You should carefully consider the risks described below and
other information contained in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K when
considering an investment decision with respect to our
securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also
impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in
the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business,
results of operations or financial condition could be materially
adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading price of
our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of
your investment.







    
    



    
    
    It is uncertain whether we will successfully implement the
    turnaround strategy for our North American Tire segment.





We are in the process of implementing a turnaround strategy for
our North American Tire Segment. Based in part on successes in
implementing this strategy, North American Tire had positive
segment operating income in 2004 and 2005, after recording
operating losses in the previous two years. Additional progress
in implementing the turnaround strategy is needed, however, to
enable the North American Tire business segment to continue to
achieve and maintain profitability.


     
The ability of the North American Tire Segment to achieve and
maintain profitability may be hampered by trends that continue
to negatively affect the business, including industry
overcapacity, which limits pricing power, increased competition
from low-cost manufacturers and uncertain economic conditions in
the United States. In addition, our North American Tire Segment
has been, and may continue to be negatively affected by higher
than expected raw materials and energy costs, weakness in the
domestic auto industry, as well as the continuing burden of
legacy pension and postretirement benefit costs. The success of
our turnaround strategy is dependent, in part, on our ability to
address and manage these costs as well as the costs associated
with operating our manufacturing facilities in North America and
to implement productivity improvements in these facilities.


     
The success of the turnaround strategy is also dependent on
North American Tire’s ability to continue to improve the
proportion, or mix, of higher margin tires it sells. In order to
continue this improvement, North American Tire must be
successful in marketing and selling products that offer higher
margins such as the Assurance and Fortera lines of tires and in
developing additional higher margin tires that achieve broad
market acceptance. Other initiatives that may impact our
turnaround effort include our ability to successfully expand
into the truck service business and to continue our selective
fitment strategy with our OE customers.


     
We cannot assure that our turnaround strategy will be
successful. If our turnaround strategy is not successful, we may
not be able to achieve or sustain future profitability, which
would impair our ability to meet our debt and other obligations
and would otherwise negatively affect our financial condition
and operations.


11



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    
    We face significant global competition and our market
    share could decline.





New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions
throughout the world. We compete with other tire manufacturers
on the basis of product design, performance, price, reputation,
warranty terms, customer service and consumer convenience. On a
worldwide basis, we have two major competitors, Bridgestone
(based in Japan) and Michelin (based in France), that dominate
the markets of the countries in which they are based and are
aggressively seeking to maintain or improve their respective
shares of the North American, European, Latin American and other
world tire markets. Other significant competitors include
Continental, Cooper Tire, Pirelli, Toyo, Yokohama, Kumho,
Hankook and various regional tire manufacturers. Our competitors
produce significant numbers of tires in low-cost markets. We are
limited by our master contract with the United Steelworkers
(USW) in our ability to shift production of certain
products from U.S. facilities to low-cost markets and our
credit agreements limit the amount of capital expenditures we
may make. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in
significant part, on our ability to reduce costs by such means
as reduction of excess capacity, leveraging global purchasing,
improving productivity, elimination of redundancies and
increasing production at low-cost supply sources. If we are
unable to compete successfully, our market share may decline,
materially adversely affecting our results of operations and
financial condition.







    
    



    
    
    Our pension plans are significantly underfunded and our
    required contributions to these plans are expected to
    increase.





The unfunded amount of the projected benefit obligation for our
U.S. and
non-U.S. pension
plans was $2 billion and $1 billion at
December 31, 2005, respectively. Our funding obligations
for our U.S. plans are governed by the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. In 2005, we met or
exceeded our required funding obligations for these plans under
ERISA. Estimates of the amount and timing of our future funding
obligations are based on various assumptions. These include
assumptions concerning, among other things, the actual and
projected market performance of the pension plan assets;
interest rates on long-term obligations; statutory requirements;
and demographic data for pension plan participants. The amount
and timing of our future funding obligations also depend on
whether we elect to make contributions to the pension plans in
excess of those required under ERISA, as such voluntary
contributions could reduce or defer our future funding
obligations.


     
At the end of 2005, interest rate relief measures relating to
the calculation of pension funding obligations expired. Since
new legislation has not yet been enacted, the interest rate
reverted to a 30-year
U.S. Treasury bond basis beginning in 2006 and we estimate
that we will be required to contribute approximately
$700 million to $750 million to our domestic pension
plans in 2006 under this basis. If new legislation is enacted in
2006, we expect that the interest rate used for 2006 will be
based on a corporate bond basis. Using an estimate of these
rates would result in estimated required contributions to our
domestic pension plans in 2006 of $550 million to
$600 million. For more information on the calculation of
our estimated domestic pension plan contributions, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities.” The anticipated funding
obligations under our pension plans for 2007 and thereafter
cannot be reasonably estimated at this time because of the
current uncertainty around pension reform legislation. Pension
reform legislation before Congress would replace the interest
rate used to calculate pension funding obligations starting in
2007, require more rapid funding of underfunded plans, restrict
the use of techniques that reduce funding volatility, and limit
pension increases in underfunded plans. In addition, Congress
has recently passed legislation increasing the insurance
premiums charged by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. It
is not possible to predict whether Congress will adopt pension
reform legislation, or what form any final legislation might
take. If legislation similar to the pending bills were enacted,
it could materially increase our pension funding obligations and
insurance premiums, and could limit our ability to negotiate
pension increases for our union-represented employees.
Nevertheless, we presently expect that our funding obligations
under our pension plans in 2007 and subsequent years will be
substantial and could have a material adverse impact on our
liquidity.


12


Table of Contents






    
    



    
    
    Higher raw material and energy costs may materially
    adversely affect our operating results and financial
    condition.





Raw material costs increased significantly over the past few
years driven by increases in costs of oil and natural rubber.
Market conditions may prevent us from passing these increased
costs on to our customers through timely price increases.
Additionally, higher raw material costs around the world may
continue to hinder our ability to fully realize our turnaround
strategy. As a result, higher raw material and energy costs
could result in declining margins and operating results.







    
    



    
    
    Continued pricing pressures from vehicle manufacturers may
    materially adversely affect our business.





Approximately 28% of the tires we sell are sold to vehicle
manufacturers for mounting as OE. Pricing pressure from vehicle
manufacturers has been a characteristic of the tire industry in
recent years. Many vehicle manufacturers have policies of
seeking price reductions each year. Although we have taken steps
to reduce costs and resist price reductions, current and future
price reductions could materially adversely impact our sales and
profit margins. If we are unable to offset continued price
reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced
expenditures, those price reductions may result in declining
margins and operating results.







    
    



    
    
    If we fail to extend or renegotiate our primary collective
    bargaining contracts with our labor unions as they expire from
    time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a
    strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating
    results could be materially adversely affected.





We are a party to collective bargaining contracts with our labor
unions, which represent a significant number of our employees.
In particular, our master collective bargaining agreement with
the USW covers approximately 13,600 employees in the United
States at December 31, 2005 and expires in July 2006.
Although we believe that our relations with our employees are
satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to
successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining
agreements as they expire from time to time. If we fail to
extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if
disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers
engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher
labor costs or experience a significant disruption of
operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position and results of operations.







    
    



    
    
    Pending litigation relating to our 2003 restatement could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash
    flows and results of operation.





At least 36 lawsuits were filed against us and certain of our
current or former officers or directors following our October
2003 announcement regarding the restatement of our previously
issued financial results. These actions have been consolidated
into three separate actions in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio. We intend to vigorously
defend these lawsuits. However, we cannot currently predict or
determine the outcome or resolution of these proceedings or the
timing for their resolution, or reasonably estimate the amount,
or potential range, of possible loss, if any. In addition to any
damages that we may suffer, our management’s efforts and
attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations
in order to address these claims. The final resolution of these
lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, cash flows and results of operation.







    
    



    
    
    An ongoing SEC investigation regarding our accounting
    restatement could materially adversely affect us.





Following our October 2003 announcement regarding the
restatement of our previously issued financial results, the SEC
advised us that it had initiated an informal inquiry into the
facts and circumstances related to the restatement. On
February 5, 2004, the SEC advised us that it had approved
the issuance of a formal order of investigation. On
August 16, 2005, we announced that we had received a
“Wells Notice” from the SEC indicating that the staff
of the SEC intends to recommend that a civil or administrative
enforcement action be brought against us for alleged violations
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, relating to the
maintenance of books, records and internal accounting controls,
the establishment of disclosure controls and procedures,


13



Table of Contents


and periodic SEC filing requirements. The alleged violations
relate to the account reconciliation matters giving rise to our
initial decision to restate in October 2003. We have also been
informed that Wells Notices have been issued to a former chief
financial officer and a former chief accounting officer of ours.
We continue to cooperate with the SEC regarding this matter. We
are unable to predict the outcome of this process, and an
unfavorable outcome could harm our reputation and our business.







    
    



    
    
    Our long-term ability to meet our obligations and to repay
    maturing indebtedness is dependent on our ability to access
    capital markets in the future and to improve our operating
    results.





The adequacy of our liquidity depends on our ability to achieve
an appropriate combination of operating improvements, financing
from third parties, access to capital markets and asset sales.
Although we completed a major refinancing of our senior secured
credit facilities on April 8, 2005, issued
$400 million in Senior unsecured notes in June 2005, and
repaid our
63/8%
Euro Notes due 2005 upon maturity on June 6, 2005, we may
undertake additional financing actions in the capital markets in
order to ensure that our future liquidity requirements are
addressed. These actions may include the issuance of additional
equity.


     
Our access to the capital markets cannot be assured and is
dependent on, among other things, the degree of success we have
implementing our North American Tire turnaround strategy. See
“— It is uncertain whether we will successfully
implement the turnaround strategy for our North American Tire
segment.” Future liquidity requirements also may make it
necessary for us to incur additional debt. A substantial portion
of our assets is subject to liens securing our indebtedness. As
a result, we are limited in our ability to pledge our remaining
assets as security for additional secured indebtedness. Our
failure to access the capital markets or incur additional debt
in the future could have a material adverse effect on our
liquidity and operations, and could require us to consider
further measures, including deferring planned capital
expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling
additional assets and restructuring existing debt.







    
    



    
    
    We have a substantial amount of debt, which could restrict
    our growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise
    materially adversely affect our financial health.





We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31,
2005, our debt (including capital leases) on a consolidated
basis was approximately $5.4 billion. Our substantial
amount of debt and other obligations could have important
consequences. For example, it could:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;



     
    • 
    
    Impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development,
    acquisitions or general corporate requirements;



     
    • 
    
    Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;



     
    • 
    
    Limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we would need to dedicate a substantial
    portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;



     
    • 
    
    Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate; and



     
    • 
    
    Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have less debt.





The agreements governing our debt, including our credit
agreements, limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring
additional debt and we may incur a significant amount of
additional debt in the future, including additional secured
debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, our
ability to satisfy our debt obligations may become more limited.


     
Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our
debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and
operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability
to implement our turnaround strategy, prevailing economic
conditions and certain financial, business and other factors
beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are
insufficient to fund our debt service and other obligations,
including required pension contributions, we may be forced to
reduce or delay expansion plans and capital expenditures, sell
material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or
restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that our operating
performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient
to pay our debt obligations when they become due. We cannot
assure you that we would be able to dispose of material assets
or operations or


14



Table of Contents


restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even
if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on
terms that were acceptable to us.







    
    



    
    
    Any failure to be in compliance with any material
    provision or covenant of our debt instruments could have a
    material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations.





The indentures and other agreements governing our secured credit
facilities and secured notes and our other outstanding
indebtedness impose significant operating and financial
restrictions on us. These restrictions may affect our ability to
operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage
of potential business opportunities as they arise. These
restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    Incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock;



     
    • 
    
    Pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our
    capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or make other
    restricted payments;



     
    • 
    
    Enter into transactions with affiliates;



     
    • 
    
    Create or incur liens to secure debt;



     
    • 
    
    Make certain investments;



     
    • 
    
    Enter into sale/leaseback transactions;



     
    • 
    
    Sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets;



     
    • 
    
    Incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain
    subsidiaries;



     
    • 
    
    Use proceeds from the sale of certain assets; and



     
    • 
    
    Engage in certain mergers or consolidations and transfers of
    substantially all assets.





Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by
events beyond our control, and unanticipated events could
require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or
alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We
cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative
financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms
acceptable to us.


     
Our first lien credit facility and European term loan and
revolving credit facility require us to maintain certain
specified thresholds of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated
Interest Expense (as defined in each of the facilities). In
addition, under these facilities, we are required not to permit
our ratio of Consolidated Net Secured Indebtedness (net of cash
in excess of $400 million) to Consolidated EBITDA to be
greater than certain specified thresholds. These restrictions
could limit our ability to plan for or react to market
conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise
restrict capital activities.


     
A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in
any of our existing or future financing agreements, including
the financial covenants in our secured credit facilities, could
result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a
default could allow the lenders under our financing agreements,
if the agreements so provide, to discontinue lending, to
accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a
cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, and/or to
declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and
payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any
commitments they have to provide us with further funds. If any
of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have
sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of
obligations that become due as a result of any such
acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or
alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated
obligations. Even if we obtain additional or alternative
financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that
would be acceptable to us. Finally, we have agreed with the USW
that if we do not remain in compliance with our prevailing
principal bank financial covenants, we will seek a substantial
private equity investment. Any such investor or investors could
exercise influence over the management of our business and may
have interests that conflict with the interests of our other
investors.


     
We cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in
compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the
future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain
waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.


15



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    
    Our capital expenditures may not be adequate to maintain
    our competitive position.





Our capital expenditures are limited by our liquidity and
capital resources and restrictions in our credit agreements. The
amount Goodyear has available for capital spending is limited by
the need to pay its other expenses and to maintain adequate cash
reserves and borrowing capacity to meet unexpected demands that
may arise. In addition, our credit facilities limit the amount
of capital expenditures that we may make to $700 million in
each year through 2010. The amounts of permitted capital
expenditures may be increased with the proceeds of equity
issuances. In addition, unused capital expenditures may be
carried over into the next year. In 2005, capital expenditures
as defined in our borrowing agreements totaled $621 million
and are expected to increase to approximately $665 million
in 2006. Capital expenditures as defined in our borrowing
agreements do not include capitalized software and include
non-cash capital lease transactions and, accordingly, differ
from capital expenditures reported in our Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that our ratio of capital
expenditures to sales is lower than the comparable ratio for our
principal competitors.


     
Productivity improvements through process re-engineering, design
efficiency and manufacturing cost improvements may be required
to offset potential increases in labor and raw material costs
and competitive price pressures. In addition, as part of our
strategy to increase the percentage of tires sold in higher cost
markets that are produced at our lower-cost production
facilities, we may need to modernize or expand certain of those
facilities. If we are unable to make sufficient capital
expenditures, or to maximize the efficiency of the capital
expenditures we do make, we may be unable to achieve
productivity improvements, which may harm our competitive
position.







    
    



    
    
    Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest
    rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to
    increase significantly.





Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under our credit
facilities, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to
interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service
obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase
even though the amount borrowed remained the same, which would
require us to use more of our available cash to service our
indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
enter into swap agreements or other hedging arrangements in the
future, or that existing or future hedging arrangements will
offset increases in interest rates. At December 31, 2005,
we had $2,764 million of variable rate debt outstanding.







    
    



    
    
    We may incur significant costs in connection with asbestos
    claims.





We are among many defendants named in legal proceedings
involving claims of individuals relating to alleged exposure to
asbestos. At December 31, 2005, approximately 125,500
claims were pending against us alleging various asbestos-related
personal injuries purported to have resulted from alleged
exposure to asbestos in certain rubber encapsulated products or
aircraft braking systems manufactured by us in the past or to
asbestos in certain of our facilities. We expect that additional
claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate
liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is
subject to various uncertainties, including the following:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    the number of claims that are brought in the future;



     
    • 
    
    the costs of defending and settling these claims;



     
    • 
    
    the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers;



     
    • 
    
    the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to
    pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we
    have historically settled claims;



     
    • 
    
    the risk of changes in the litigation environment or Federal and
    state law governing the compensation of asbestos
    claimants; and



     
    • 
    
    the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may
    increase our costs.




     
Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is
possible that we may incur a material amount in excess of our
current reserve for such claims. In addition, if any of the
foregoing risks were to materialize, the


16



Table of Contents


resulting costs could have a material adverse impact on our
liquidity, financial position and results of operations in
future periods.







    
    



    
    
    We may be required to deposit cash collateral to support
    an appeal bond if we are subject to a significant adverse
    judgment, which may have a material adverse effect on our
    liquidity.





We are subject to various legal proceedings. If we wish to
appeal any future adverse judgment in any of these proceedings,
we may be required to post an appeal bond with the relevant
court. We may be required to issue a letter of credit to the
surety posting the bond. We may issue up to an aggregate of
$700 million in letters of credit under our
$1.5 billion U.S. first lien credit facility. As of
December 31, 2005, we had $499 million in letters of
credit issued under this facility. If we are subject to a
significant adverse judgment and do not have sufficient
availability under our credit facilities to issue a letter of
credit to support an appeal bond, we may be required to pay down
borrowings under the facilities or deposit cash collateral in
order to stay the enforcement of the judgment pending an appeal.
A significant deposit of cash collateral may have a material
adverse effect on our liquidity. If we are unable to post cash
collateral, we may be unable to stay enforcement of the judgment.







    
    



    
    
    We are subject to extensive government regulations that
    may materially adversely affect our operating results.





We are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation
and by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or
NHTSA, which have established various standards and regulations
applicable to tires sold in the United States and tires sold in
a foreign country that are identical or substantially similar to
tires sold in the United States. NHTSA has the authority to
order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having
safety-related defects. NHTSA’s regulatory authority was
expanded in November 2000 as a result of the enactment of the
Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and
Documentation Act, or TREAD Act. The TREAD Act imposes numerous
requirements with respect to the early warning reporting of
warranty claims, property damage claims, and bodily injury and
fatality claims and also requires tire manufacturers, among
other things, to conform with revised and more rigorous tire
testing standards, once the revised standards are implemented.
Compliance with the TREAD Act regulations will increase the cost
of producing and distributing tires in the United States. In
addition, while we believe that our tires are free from design
and manufacturing defects, it is possible that a recall of our
tires, under the TREAD Act or otherwise, could occur in the
future. A substantial recall could have a material adverse
effect on our reputation, operating results and financial
position. Compliance with these and other Federal, state and
local laws and regulations in the future may require a material
increase in our capital expenditures and could materially
adversely affect the Company’s earnings and competitive
position.







    
    



    
    
    Our international operations have certain risks that may
    materially adversely affect our operating results.





Goodyear has manufacturing and distribution facilities
throughout the world. The international operations are subject
to certain inherent risks, including:







    
    
    



     
    • 
    
    exposure to local economic conditions;



     
    • 
    
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States;



     
    • 
    
    hostility from local populations and insurrections;



     
    • 
    
    adverse currency exchange controls;



     
    • 
    
    restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and
    earnings;



     
    • 
    
    withholding taxes and restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign
    investment and earnings;



     
    • 
    
    labor regulations;



     
    • 
    
    expropriations of property;



     
    • 
    
    the potential instability of foreign governments;



     
    • 
    
    risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements
    with governmental authorities;



     
    • 
    
    export and import restrictions; and



     
    • 
    
    other changes in laws or government policies.




17



Table of Contents


The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on
Goodyear vary from country to country and are unpredictable.
Certain regions, including Latin America and Asia, are
inherently more economically and politically volatile and as a
result, our business units that operate in these regions could
be subject to significant fluctuations in sales and operating
income from quarter to quarter. Because a significant percentage
of our operating income in recent years has come from these
regions, adverse fluctuations in the operating results in these
regions could have a disproportionate impact on our results of
operations in future periods.







    
    



    
    
    We have foreign currency translation and transaction risks
    that may materially adversely affect our operating
    results.





The financial condition and results of operations of certain of
our operating entities are reported in various foreign
currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the
applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial
statements. As a result, the appreciation of the
U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a negative
impact on our reported sales and operating margin (and
conversely, the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against
these foreign currencies has a positive impact). For the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2005, we estimate that foreign
currency translation favorably impacted sales and segment
operating income by approximately $210 million and
$95 million, respectively, compared to the prior year. The
volatility of currency exchange rates may materially adversely
affect our operating results.







    
    



    
    
    The terms and conditions of our global alliance with
    Sumitomo Rubber Industries, Ltd. (“SRI”) provide for
    certain exit rights available to SRI upon the occurrence of
    certain events, which could require us to make a substantial
    payment to acquire SRI’s interest in certain of their joint
    venture alliances.





In 1999, we entered into a global alliance with SRI. Under the
global alliance agreements, we acquired 75%, and SRI owned 25%,
of Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe B.V., which concurrently with
the transaction acquired substantially all of SRI’s tire
businesses in Europe and most of Goodyear’s tire businesses
in Europe. We also acquired 75%, and SRI acquired 25%, of
Goodyear Dunlop Tires North America, Ltd., a holding company
that purchased SRI’s tire manufacturing operations in North
America and certain of its primarily OE-related tire sales and
distribution operations. In addition, we also acquired 25% of
the capital stock of two newly-formed tire companies in Japan,
as well as 51% of the capital stock of a newly-formed technology
company and 80% of the capital stock of a newly-formed global
purchasing company. SRI owns the balance of the capital stock in
each of these companies. Under the Umbrella Agreement between us
and SRI, SRI has the right to require us to purchase from SRI
its ownership interests in the European and North American joint
ventures in September 2009 if certain triggering events have
occurred. In addition, the occurrence of certain other events
enumerated in the Umbrella Agreement, including certain
bankruptcy events or changes in control of Goodyear, could
provide SRI with the right to require us to repurchase these
interests immediately. While we have not done any current
valuation of these businesses, our cost of acquiring an interest
in these businesses in 1999 was approximately $1.2 billion.
Any payment required to be made to SRI pursuant to an exit under
the terms of the global alliance agreements could be
substantial. We cannot assure you that our operating
performance, cash flow and capital resources would be sufficient
to make such a payment or, if we were able to make the payment,
that there would be sufficient funds remaining to satisfy our
other obligations. The withdrawal of SRI from the global
alliance could also have other adverse effects on our business.







    
    



    
    
    If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel our
    business could be materially adversely affected.





Our business substantially depends on the continued service of
key members of our management. The loss of the services of a
significant number of members of our management could have a
material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will
also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled
personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management
professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and
we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and
retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we
do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting
new high quality employees, our business could be materially
adversely affected.


18



Table of Contents








ITEM 1B