ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    You should carefully consider the risks described below and
    other information contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    when considering an investment decision with respect to our
    securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also
    impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in
    the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business,
    results of operations or financial condition could be materially
    adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading price of
    our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of
    your investment.


 



    If we
    do not achieve projected savings from various cost reduction
    initiatives or successfully implement other strategic
    initiatives our operating results and financial condition may be
    materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business continues to be impacted by trends that have
    negatively affected the tire industry in general, including,
    industry overcapacity, which limits pricing power, increased
    competition from low-cost manufacturers, uncertain economic
    conditions in various parts of the world, high raw material and
    energy costs, weakness in the North American auto industry, and
    weakness in demand for consumer replacement tires in the
    U.S. and Europe. To the extent that increases in gas prices
    or other factors cause consumers to drive fewer miles there
    could be a reduction in demand for replacement tires, which, if
    significant, could harm our business. Unlike most other tire
    manufacturers, we also face the continuing burden of legacy
    pension and postretirement benefit costs. In order to offset the
    impact of these trends, we continue to implement various cost
    reduction initiatives and expect to achieve between
    $1.8 billion and $2.0 billion in aggregate gross cost
    savings from 2006 through 2009 through our four-point cost
    savings plan which includes expected savings from continuous
    improvement processes, increased low-cost country sourcing,
    high-cost capacity reductions and reduced selling,
    administrative and general expenses. Included in these savings
    is approximately $300 million of expected ongoing savings
    by 2009 as a result of our master labor agreement with the USW.


 


    Our performance is also dependent on our ability to continue to
    improve the proportion, or mix, of higher margin tires we sell.
    In order to continue this improvement, we must be successful in
    marketing and selling products that offer higher margins such as
    the Assurance, Eagle and Fortera lines of tires and in
    developing additional higher margin tires that achieve broad
    market acceptance in North America and elsewhere.


 


    We cannot assure you that these cost reduction and other
    initiatives will be successful. If not, we may not be able to
    achieve or sustain future profitability, which would impair our
    ability to meet our debt and other obligations and would
    otherwise negatively affect our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    A
    significant aspect of our master labor agreement with the USW is
    subject to court approval, which, if not received, could result
    in the termination and renegotiation of the
    agreement.


 


    On December 28, 2006, members of the USW ratified the terms
    of a new master labor agreement ending a strike that began on
    October 5, 2006. In connection with the master labor
    agreement, we also entered into a memorandum of understanding
    with the USW regarding the establishment of an independent
    Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association
    (“VEBA”) intended to provide healthcare benefits for
    current and future USW retirees. As a result, we expect to be
    able to eliminate our postretirement healthcare
    (“OPEB”) liability related to such benefits. At
    December 31, 2007, this OPEB liability was approximately
    $1.2 billion. The establishment of the VEBA is conditioned
    upon U.S. District Court approval of a settlement of a
    declaratory judgment action. On July 3, 2007, the USW and
    several retirees filed a required class action lawsuit regarding
    the establishment of the VEBA in the U.S. District Court
    for the Northern District of Ohio. On October 29, 2007, the
    parties filed the signed settlement agreement with the District
    Court, and on December 14, 2007, the District Court
    preliminarily approved the settlement agreement and established
    the date for a hearing regarding the settlement. We have
    committed to contribute $1 billion to the VEBA. We plan to
    make our contributions to the VEBA entirely in cash following
    the District Court’s approval of the settlement. Despite
    our contributions to the VEBA, we will not be able to remove our
    liability for USW retiree healthcare benefits from our balance
    sheet until this settlement has received final judicial approval
    (including the exhaustion of all appeals, if any). If the VEBA
    is funded but we are unable to remove this liability from our
    balance sheet (e.g., approval of the District Court is reversed
    on appeal), we will not be able to terminate the VEBA and
    recover our contributions; rather, the funds in the VEBA will be
    used to pay for



    
    13



Table of Contents




    USW retiree health and other permissible benefits and we will
    remain liable to pay those benefits. If the VEBA is not approved
    by the District Court (or if the approval of the District Court
    is subsequently reversed), the master labor agreement may be
    terminated by either us or the USW, and negotiations may be
    reopened on the entirety of the master labor agreement. If
    negotiations are reopened, we might be unable to achieve the
    cost reductions we expect to receive from the master labor
    agreement.


 



    We
    face significant global competition and our market share could
    decline.


 


    New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions
    throughout the world. We compete with other tire manufacturers
    on the basis of product design, performance, price and terms,
    reputation, warranty terms, customer service and consumer
    convenience. On a worldwide basis, we have two major
    competitors, Bridgestone (based in Japan) and Michelin (based in
    France), that have large shares of the markets of the countries
    in which they are based and are aggressively seeking to maintain
    or improve their worldwide market share. Other significant
    competitors include Continental, Cooper, Hankook, Kumho,
    Pirelli, Toyo, Yokohama and various regional tire manufacturers.
    Our competitors produce significant numbers of tires in low-cost
    countries. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in
    significant part, on our ability to reduce costs by such means
    as reduction of excess capacity, leveraging global purchasing,
    improving productivity, elimination of redundancies and
    increasing production at low-cost supply sources. If we are
    unable to compete successfully, our market share may decline,
    materially adversely affecting our results of operations and
    financial condition.


 



    The
    underfunding levels of our pension plans and our pension
    expenses could materially increase.


 


    Substantially all of our U.S. and many of our
    non-U.S. employees
    participate in defined benefit pension plans. In previous
    periods, we have experienced declines in interest rates and
    pension asset values. Future declines in interest rates or the
    market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain
    other changes, could materially increase the underfunded status
    of our plans and affect the level and timing of required
    contributions in 2009 and beyond. The unfunded amount of the
    projected benefit obligation for our U.S. and
    non-U.S. pension
    plans was $649 million and $813 million at
    December 31, 2007, respectively, and we currently estimate
    that we will be required to make contributions to our domestic
    pension plans of approximately $200 million to
    $225 million in 2008, and $150 million to
    $175 million in 2009. A material increase in the
    underfunded status of the plans could significantly increase our
    required contributions and pension expenses and impair our
    ability to achieve or sustain future profitability.


 



    Higher
    raw material and energy costs may materially adversely affect
    our operating results and financial condition.


 


    Raw material costs increased significantly over the past few
    years driven by increases in prices of petrochemical-based
    commodities and natural rubber. Market conditions may prevent us
    from passing these increased costs on to our customers through
    timely price increases. Additionally, higher raw material costs
    around the world may offset our efforts to reduce our cost
    structure. As a result, higher raw material and energy costs
    could result in declining margins and operating results.


 



    Pricing
    pressures from vehicle manufacturers may materially adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Approximately 30% of the tires we sell are sold to vehicle
    manufacturers for mounting as OE. Pricing pressure from vehicle
    manufacturers has been a characteristic of the tire industry in
    recent years. Many vehicle manufacturers have policies of
    seeking price reductions each year. Although we have taken steps
    to reduce costs and resist price reductions, current and future
    price reductions could materially adversely impact our sales and
    profit margins. If we are unable to offset future price
    reductions through improved operating efficiencies and cost
    reductions, those price reductions may result in declining
    margins and operating results.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Pending
    litigation relating to our 2003 restatement could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows
    and results of operation.


 


    Following the announcement of a restatement of our financial
    statements in October 2003, several lawsuits were filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio
    against Goodyear and current
    and/or
    former officers, directors and associates of Goodyear asserting
    breach of fiduciary duty claims under the Employee Retirement
    Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) on behalf of a
    putative class of participants in our Employee Savings Plan for
    Bargaining Unit Employees and our Savings Plan for Salaried
    Employees. All of these actions were consolidated into a
    separate action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
    District of Ohio. In July 2006, the Court denied the
    defendants’ motion to dismiss the breach of fiduciary duty
    claims under ERISA. We have entered into a settlement agreement
    with the plaintiffs, which is subject to court approval, in
    order to eliminate the ongoing cost and distraction of the
    litigation. If the settlement agreement is not approved by the
    court, we will continue to vigorously defend these claims. We
    cannot currently predict or determine the outcome or resolution
    of this proceeding or the timing for its resolution. The final
    resolution of this action could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations.


 



    Our
    long term ability to meet our obligations and to repay maturing
    indebtedness is dependent on our ability to access capital
    markets in the future and to improve our operating
    results.


 


    The adequacy of our liquidity depends on our ability to achieve
    an appropriate combination of operating improvements, financing
    from third parties, access to capital markets and asset sales.
    Although we have completed several significant transactions, we
    may undertake additional financing actions in the capital
    markets in order to ensure that our future liquidity
    requirements are addressed. These actions may include the
    issuance of additional debt or equity.


 


    Our access to the capital markets cannot be assured and is
    dependent on, among other things, the degree of success we have
    in implementing our cost reduction plans and improving the
    results of our North American Tire segment. Future liquidity
    requirements also may make it necessary for us to incur
    additional debt. A substantial portion of our assets is subject
    to liens securing our indebtedness. As a result, we are limited
    in our ability to pledge our remaining assets as security for
    additional secured indebtedness. Our failure to access the
    capital markets or incur additional debt in the future could
    have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations,
    and could require us to consider further measures, including
    deferring planned capital expenditures, reducing discretionary
    spending, selling additional assets and restructuring existing
    debt.


 



    We
    have a substantial amount of debt, which could restrict our
    growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise
    materially adversely affect our financial health.


 


    We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31,
    2007, our debt (including capital leases) on a consolidated
    basis was approximately $4.7 billion. Our substantial
    amount of debt and other obligations could have important
    consequences. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;








     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development,
    acquisitions or general corporate requirements;








     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;








     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we would need to dedicate a substantial
    portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;








     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate; and








     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have less debt.





 


    The agreements governing our debt, including our credit
    agreements, limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring
    additional debt and we may incur a significant amount of
    additional debt in the future, including additional secured
    debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, our
    ability to satisfy our debt obligations may become more limited.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our
    debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and
    operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability
    to implement our cost reduction initiatives and other
    strategies, prevailing economic conditions and certain
    financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our
    cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our
    debt service and other obligations, including required pension
    contributions, we may be forced to reduce or delay expansion
    plans and capital expenditures, sell material assets or
    operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt.
    We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow
    and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our debt
    obligations when they become due. We cannot assure you that we
    would be able to dispose of material assets or operations or
    restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even
    if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on
    terms that were acceptable to us.


 



    Any
    failure to be in compliance with any material provision or
    covenant of our debt instruments could have a material adverse
    effect on our liquidity and operations.


 


    The indentures and other agreements governing our secured credit
    facilities, senior secured notes, senior unsecured notes and our
    other outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and
    financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may affect our
    ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to
    take advantage of potential business opportunities as they
    arise. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other
    things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional debt or issue redeemable preferred stock;








     
        • 

    
    make certain restricted payments or investments;








     
        • 

    
    incur liens;








     
        • 

    
    sell certain assets;








     
        • 

    
    incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay
    dividends to us;








     
        • 

    
    enter into affiliate transactions;








     
        • 

    
    engage in sale/leaseback transactions; and








     
        • 

    
    engage in certain mergers or consolidations and transfers of
    substantially all of our assets.





 


    Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by
    events beyond our control, and unanticipated events could
    require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or
    alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We
    cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative
    financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms
    acceptable to us.


 


    A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in
    any of our existing or future financing agreements, including
    the financial covenants in our secured credit facilities, could
    result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a
    default could allow the lenders under our financing agreements,
    if the agreements so provide, to discontinue lending, to
    accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a
    cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies,
    and/or to
    declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and
    payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any
    commitments they have to provide us with further funds. If any
    of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have
    sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of
    obligations that become due as a result of any such
    acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or
    alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated
    obligations. Even if we obtain additional or alternative
    financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that
    would be acceptable to us.


 


    We cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in
    compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the
    future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain
    waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.


 



    Our
    capital expenditures may not be adequate to maintain our
    competitive position and may not be implemented in a timely or
    cost-effective manner.


 


    Our capital expenditures are limited by our liquidity and
    capital resources and the amount we have available for capital
    spending is limited by the need to pay our other expenses and to
    maintain adequate cash reserves and borrowing capacity to meet
    unexpected demands that may arise. We believe that our ratio of
    capital expenditures to sales is lower than the comparable ratio
    for our principal competitors.


 


    Productivity improvements through process re-engineering, design
    efficiency and manufacturing cost improvements may be required
    to offset potential increases in labor and raw material costs
    and competitive price



    
    16



Table of Contents




    pressures. In addition, as part of our strategy to increase the
    percentage of tires that are produced at our lower-cost
    production facilities and to increase our capacity to produce
    higher margin tires, we may need to modernize or expand our
    facilities. We may not have sufficient resources to implement
    planned capital expenditures with minimal disruption to our
    existing manufacturing operations, or within desired time frames
    and budgets. Any disruption to our operations, delay in
    implementing capital improvements or unexpected costs may
    materially adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.


 


    If we are unable to make sufficient capital expenditures, or to
    maximize the efficiency of the capital expenditures we do make,
    we may be unable to achieve productivity improvements, which may
    harm our competitive position. In addition, plant modernizations
    may temporarily disrupt our manufacturing operations and lead to
    temporary increases in our costs.


 



    Our
    variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk,
    which could cause our debt service obligations to increase
    significantly.


 


    Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and
    expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our
    debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would
    increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same,
    which would require us to use more of our available cash to
    service our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will
    be able to enter into swap agreements or other hedging
    arrangements in the future, or that existing or future hedging
    arrangements will offset increases in interest rates. As of
    December 31, 2007, we had approximately $2.6 billion
    of variable rate debt outstanding.


 



    We may
    incur significant costs in connection with asbestos
    claims.


 


    We are among many defendants named in legal proceedings
    involving claims of individuals relating to alleged exposure to
    asbestos. At December 31, 2007, approximately 117,000
    claims were pending against us alleging various asbestos-related
    personal injuries purported to have resulted from alleged
    exposure to asbestos in certain rubber encapsulated products or
    aircraft braking systems manufactured by us in the past or to
    asbestos in certain of our facilities. We expect that additional
    claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate
    liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is
    subject to various uncertainties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the number of claims that are brought in the future;








     
        • 

    
    the costs of defending and settling these claims;








     
        • 

    
    the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers;








     
        • 

    
    the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to
    pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we
    have historically settled claims;








     
        • 

    
    the risk of changes in the litigation environment or Federal and
    state law governing the compensation of asbestos
    claimants; and








     
        • 

    
    the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may
    increase our costs.





 


    Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is
    possible that we may incur a material amount in excess of our
    current reserve for such claims. In addition, if any of the
    foregoing risks were to materialize, the resulting costs could
    have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial
    position and results of operations in future periods.


 



    We may
    be required to deposit cash collateral to support an appeal bond
    if we are subject to a significant adverse judgment, which may
    have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.


 


    We are subject to various legal proceedings. If we wish to
    appeal any future adverse judgment in any of these proceedings,
    we may be required to post an appeal bond with the relevant
    court. We may be required to issue a letter of credit to the
    surety posting the bond. We may issue up to an aggregate of
    $800 million in letters of credit under our
    $1.5 billion U.S. senior secured first lien credit
    facility. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    $526 million in letters of credit issued under this
    facility. If we are subject to a significant adverse judgment
    and do not have sufficient availability under our credit
    facilities to issue a letter of credit to support an appeal
    bond, we may be required to pay down borrowings under the
    facilities or deposit cash collateral in order to stay the
    enforcement of the judgment pending an appeal. A significant
    deposit of cash collateral may have a material adverse effect on
    our liquidity. If we are unable to post cash collateral, we may
    be unable to stay enforcement of the judgment.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 



    We are
    subject to extensive government regulations that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation
    through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or
    NHTSA, which has established various standards and regulations
    applicable to tires sold in the United States and tires sold in
    a foreign country that are identical or substantially similar to
    tires sold in the United States. NHTSA has the authority to
    order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having
    safety-related defects.


 


    NHTSA’s regulatory authority was expanded in November 2000
    as a result of the enactment of the Transportation Recall
    Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act, or TREAD
    Act. The TREAD Act imposes numerous requirements with respect to
    the early warning reporting of warranty claims, property damage
    claims, and bodily injury and fatality claims and also requires
    tire manufacturers, among other things, to conform with revised
    and more rigorous tire testing standards, once the revised
    standards are implemented. Compliance with the TREAD Act
    regulations has increased and will continue to increase the cost
    of producing and distributing tires in the United States. In
    addition, while we believe that our tires are free from design
    and manufacturing defects, it is possible that a recall of our
    tires, under the TREAD Act or otherwise, could occur in the
    future. A substantial recall could have a material adverse
    effect on our reputation, operating results and financial
    position.


 


    In addition, as required by the enactment of an omnibus energy
    bill in December 2007, NHTSA will establish a national tire fuel
    efficiency consumer information program. While the new federal
    law will pre-empt state tire fuel efficiency laws adopted after
    January 1, 2006, we may become subject to additional tire
    fuel efficiency legislation, either in the United States or
    other countries, which might require us to alter or increase our
    capital spending and research and development plans or cease
    production of certain tires.


 


    Compliance with these and other foreign, Federal, state and
    local laws and regulations in the future may require a material
    increase in our capital expenditures and could materially
    adversely affect our earnings and competitive position.


 



    Our
    international operations have certain risks that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We have manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout the
    world. Our international operations are subject to certain
    inherent risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    exposure to local economic conditions;








     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States;








     
        • 

    
    hostility from local populations and insurrections;








     
        • 

    
    adverse currency exchange controls;








     
        • 

    
    withholding taxes and restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign
    investment and earnings;








     
        • 

    
    labor regulations;








     
        • 

    
    expropriations of property;








     
        • 

    
    the potential instability of foreign governments;








     
        • 

    
    risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements
    with governmental authorities;








     
        • 

    
    export and import restrictions; and








     
        • 

    
    other changes in laws or government policies.





 


    The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on
    us vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Certain
    regions, including Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and
    Africa, are inherently more economically and politically
    volatile and as a result, our business units that operate in
    these regions could be subject to significant fluctuations in
    sales and operating income from quarter to quarter. Because a
    significant percentage of our operating income in recent years
    has come from these regions, adverse fluctuations in the
    operating results in these regions could have a disproportionate
    impact on our results of operations in future periods.


 



    We
    have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may
    materially adversely affect our operating results.


 


    The financial position and results of operations of our
    international subsidiaries are reported in various foreign
    currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the
    applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial
    statements. As a result, the appreciation of the
    U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a negative
    impact on our reported sales and



    
    18



Table of Contents




    operating margin (and conversely, the depreciation of the
    U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a positive
    impact). For year ended December 31, 2007, we estimate that
    foreign currency translation favorably impacted sales and
    segment operating income by approximately $833 million and
    $115 million, respectively, compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. The volatility of currency exchange
    rates may materially adversely affect our operating results.


 



    The
    terms and conditions of our global alliance with Sumitomo Rubber
    Industries, Ltd. provide for certain exit rights available to
    SRI upon the occurrence of certain events, which could require
    us to make a substantial payment to acquire SRI’s interest
    in certain of their joint venture alliances.


 


    In 1999, we entered into a global alliance with SRI. Under the
    Umbrella Agreement between us and SRI, SRI has the right to
    require us to purchase from SRI its ownership interests in the
    European and North American joint ventures in September 2009 if
    certain triggering events have occurred. In addition, the
    occurrence of certain other events enumerated in the Umbrella
    Agreement, including certain bankruptcy events or changes in
    control of Goodyear, could provide SRI with the right to require
    us to repurchase these interests immediately. While we have not
    done any current valuation of these businesses, our cost of
    acquiring an interest in these businesses in 1999 was
    approximately $1.2 billion. Any payment required to be made
    to SRI pursuant to an exit under the terms of the global
    alliance agreements could be substantial. We cannot assure you
    that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources
    would be sufficient to make such a payment or, if we were able
    to make the payment, that there would be sufficient funds
    remaining to satisfy our other obligations. The withdrawal of
    SRI from the global alliance could also have other adverse
    effects on our business.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business
    could be materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business substantially depends on the continued service of
    key members of our management. The loss of the services of a
    significant number of members of our management could have a
    material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will
    also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled
    personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management
    professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and
    we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and
    retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we
    do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting
    new high quality employees, our business could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Work
    stoppages, financial difficulties or supply disruptions
    affecting our major OE customers could harm our
    business.


 


    Although sales to our OE customers account for less than 20% of
    our net sales, demand for our products in the OE segment and
    production levels at our facilities are directly related to
    automotive vehicle production. Automotive production can be
    affected by labor relations issues, financial difficulties or
    other supply disruptions. Our OE customers could experience a
    disruption in supply resulting from their own or supplier labor
    or financial difficulties. Such events may cause an OE customer
    to reduce or suspend vehicle production. In such an event, the
    affected OE customer could halt or significantly reduce
    purchases of our products, which would increase our production
    costs and harm our results of operations and financial condition.


 



    We may
    be impacted by economic and supply disruptions associated with
    events beyond our control, such as war, acts of terror,
    political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or
    natural disasters.


 


    We manage businesses and facilities worldwide. Our facilities
    and operations, and the facilities and operations of our
    suppliers and customers, could be disrupted by events beyond our
    control, such as war, acts of terror, political unrest, public
    health concerns, labor disputes or natural disasters. Any such
    disruption could cause delays in the production and distribution
    of our products and the loss of sales and customers. We may not
    be insured against all such potential losses and, if insured,
    the insurance proceeds that we receive may not adequately
    compensate us for all of our losses.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B