Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our international operations. 9Table of ContentsEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTSet forth below are: (1) the names and ages of all executive officers of the Company at February 13, 2014, (2) all positions with the Company presently held by each such person and (3) the positions held by, and principal areas of responsibility of, each such person during the last five years.Name Position(s) Held AgeRichard J. Kramer Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officerand President 50 Mr. Kramer was elected Chief Executive Officer and President in April  2010 and Chairman in October  2010.  He is the principal executive officer of the Company.  Mr. Kramer joined Goodyear in March 2000 and has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (June 2004 to August 2007), President, North America (March 2007 to February 2010) and Chief Operating Officer (June 2009 to April 2010).     Laura K. Thompson Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 49Ms. Thompson was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective December 1, 2013.  She is Goodyear’s principal financial officer.  Ms. Thompson joined Goodyear in 1983 and has served as Vice President, Business Development (June 2005 to February 2011) and Vice President, Finance, North America (March 2011 to November 2013).     Stephen R. McClellan President, North America 48 Mr. McClellan was named President, North America in August 2011.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear's operations in North America.  Mr. McClellan joined Goodyear in 1988 and has served as Vice President, Goodyear Commercial Tire Systems, North America (September 2003 to August 2008) and President, Consumer Tires, North America (August 2008 to August 2011).     Darren R. Wells President, Europe, Middle East and Africa 48Mr. Wells was named President, Europe, Middle East and Africa effective December 1, 2013.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear’s operations in Europe, Middle East and Africa.  Mr. Wells joined Goodyear in August 2002 and has served as Senior Vice President, Business Development and Treasurer (May 2005 to March 2007), Senior Vice President, Finance and Strategy (March 2007 to October 2008), and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (October 2008 to November 2013).      Jaime Cohen Szulc President, Latin America 51 Mr. Szulc joined Goodyear as President, Latin America in September 2010.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear's operations in Mexico, Central America and South America.  Prior to joining Goodyear, Mr. Szulc was Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Levi Strauss & Co., a global apparel company, from August 2009 until August 2010.  He was also previously employed by Eastman Kodak Company, a global manufacturer of imaging technology products, from 1998 until March 2009, including most recently as Managing Director, Global Customer Operations and Chief Operating Officer for the Consumer Digital Group and Corporate Vice President.     Daniel L. Smytka President, Asia Pacific 51 Mr. Smytka was named President, Asia Pacific in November 2011.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear's operations in Asia, Australia and the Western Pacific.  Mr. Smytka joined Goodyear in October 2008 and has served as Vice President, Consumer Tires, Asia Pacific (October 2008 to October 2010) and Vice President and Program Manager, Asia Pacific (October 2010 to November 2011).       David L. Bialosky Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 56 Mr. Bialosky joined Goodyear as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2009.  He is Goodyear's chief legal officer.  Prior to joining Goodyear, Mr. Bialosky served in legal positions of increasing responsibility at TRW Inc., TRW Automotive Inc. and TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. for 20 years, including most recently as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of TRW Automotive Holdings Corp., a global supplier of automotive parts, from April 2004 until September 2009.      10Table of ContentsName Position(s) Held AgeArthur de Bok Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing Excellence 51 Mr. de Bok was named Senior Vice President, Sales & Marketing Excellence effective December 1, 2013.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear's global sales and marketing activities.  Mr. de Bok joined Goodyear in January 2002 and has served as President, European Union Tire (September 2005 to January 2008) and President, Europe, Middle East and Africa (February 2008 to November 2013).      Paul Fitzhenry Senior Vice President, Global Communications 54 Mr. Fitzhenry joined Goodyear as Senior Vice President, Global Communications in October 2012.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear's communications activities worldwide.  Prior to joining Goodyear, he was Vice President of Corporate Communications of Tyco International, a diversified global industrial company, from 2007 until September 2012.      Jean-Claude Kihn Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Goodyear Brazil 54 Mr. Kihn was named Senior Vice President and Managing Director, Goodyear Brazil in December 2012.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear's operations in Brazil.  Mr. Kihn joined Goodyear in 1988 and has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer (January 2008 to December 2012).     Joseph B. Ruocco Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources 54 Mr. Ruocco joined Goodyear as Senior Vice President, Human Resources in August 2008.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear's human resources activities worldwide.       Gregory L. Smith Senior Vice President, Global Operations 50 Mr. Smith joined Goodyear as Senior Vice President, Global Operations in October 2011.  He is the executive officer responsible for Goodyear's global manufacturing and related supply chain activities.  Prior to joining Goodyear, Mr. Smith served in operations, manufacturing and supply chain positions of increasing responsibility at ConAgra Foods, a packaged foods company, since 2001, including most recently as Executive Vice President, Supply Chain and Operations from December 2007 to September 2011.     Richard J. Noechel Vice President and Controller 45 Mr. Noechel became Vice President and Controller in March  2011.  He is Goodyear's principal accounting officer.  Mr. Noechel joined Goodyear in October 2004 and has served as Vice President, Finance, North America (December 2008 to February 2011).  No family relationship exists between any of the above executive officers or between the executive officers and any director of the Company.Each executive officer is elected by the Board of Directors of the Company at its annual meeting to a term of one year or until his or her successor is duly elected. In those instances where the person is elected at other than an annual meeting, such person’s term will expire at the next annual meeting. 11Table of ContentsITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when considering an investment decision with respect to our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be materially adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment.If we do not successfully implement our strategic initiatives, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected.We experienced weak, but stabilizing, industry conditions in developed markets in 2013 as the economic recovery in Europe and the United States remained tentative, and our business continues to be impacted by trends that have negatively affected the tire industry in general. These negative trends include continued economic weakness in Europe, economic and political volatility in Latin America, rising energy costs, wage inflation in emerging markets, and volatile raw material costs. In addition, global tire industry demand continues to be difficult to predict. If these overall trends continue or worsen, then our operational and financial condition could be adversely affected.In order to offset the impact of these trends, we have announced important strategic initiatives, such as our operational excellence initiatives, increasing our low-cost manufacturing capacity, reducing our high-cost manufacturing capacity, such as the closure of one of our facilities in Amiens, France, increasing sales in emerging markets, and improving the profitability of our EMEA segment. We are also undertaking significant capital investments in expanding and modernizing manufacturing facilities around the world. The failure to implement successfully our important strategic initiatives may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Our operational excellence initiatives are aimed at improving our manufacturing efficiency and creating an advantaged supply chain focused on reducing our total delivered costs, optimizing working capital levels and delivering best in industry customer service. If we fail to execute these initiatives successfully, we may fail to achieve our financial goals.If economic and political conditions in emerging markets, such as Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, China and India, deteriorate significantly, we may not be able to increase our sales in emerging markets and our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.Our performance is also dependent on our ability to improve the volume and mix of higher margin tires we sell in our targeted market segments. In order to do so, we must be successful in developing, marketing and selling products that consumers desire and that offer higher margins to us. Shifts in consumer demand away from higher margin tires could materially adversely affect our business.We cannot assure you that our strategic initiatives will be successful. If not, we may not be able to achieve or sustain future profitability, which would impair our ability to meet our debt and other obligations and would otherwise negatively affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.We face significant global competition and our market share could decline.New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions throughout the world. We compete with other tire manufacturers on the basis of product design, performance, price and terms, reputation, warranty terms, customer service and consumer convenience. On a worldwide basis, we have two major competitors, Bridgestone (based in Japan) and Michelin (based in France), that have large shares of the markets of the countries in which they are based and are aggressively seeking to maintain or improve their worldwide market share. Other significant competitors include Continental, Cooper, Hankook, Kumho, Pirelli, Toyo, Yokohama and various regional tire manufacturers. Our competitors produce significant numbers of tires in low-cost countries, and have announced plans to further increase their production capacity in low-cost countries. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in significant part, on our ability to continue to innovate and manufacture the types of tires demanded by consumers, and to reduce costs by such means as reducing excess and high-cost capacity, leveraging global purchasing, improving productivity, eliminating redundancies and increasing production at low-cost supply sources. If we are unable to compete successfully, our market share may decline, materially adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition.Raw material and energy costs may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.Raw material costs have been volatile over the past few years, and we may experience increases in the prices of natural and synthetic rubber, carbon black and petrochemical-based commodities. Market conditions or contractual obligations may prevent us from passing any such increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases. Additionally, higher raw material and energy costs around the world may offset our efforts to reduce our cost structure. As a result, higher raw material and energy costs could  12Table of Contentsresult in declining margins and operating results and adversely affect our financial condition. The volatility of raw material costs may cause our margins, operating results and liquidity to fluctuate. In addition, lower raw material costs may put downward pressure on the price of tires, which could ultimately reduce our margins and adversely affect our results of operations.If we fail to extend or renegotiate our primary collective bargaining contracts with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage or interruption, our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.We are a party to collective bargaining contracts with our labor unions, which represent a significant number of our employees. Our master collective bargaining agreement with the USW covers approximately 7,500 employees in the United States at December 31, 2013, and expires July 29, 2017. In addition, approximately 22,000 of our employees outside of the United States are covered by union contracts that have expired or are expiring in 2014, primarily in Germany, Brazil, France, Poland, China and Venezuela. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage or interruption, we could experience a significant disruption of, or inefficiencies in, our operations or incur higher labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.Our long term ability to meet our obligations, to repay maturing indebtedness or to implement strategic initiatives may be dependent on our ability to access capital markets in the future and to improve our operating results.The adequacy of our liquidity depends on our ability to achieve an appropriate combination of operating improvements, financing from third parties and access to capital markets. We may need to undertake additional financing actions in the capital markets in order to ensure that our future liquidity requirements are addressed or to implement strategic initiatives. These actions may include the issuance of additional debt or equity, or the factoring of our accounts receivable.Our access to the capital markets cannot be assured and is dependent on, among other things, the ability and willingness of financial institutions to extend credit on terms that are acceptable to us or our suppliers, or to honor future draws on our existing lines of credit, and the degree of success we have in implementing our strategic initiatives and improving the results of our EMEA segment and sustaining our results in our North America segment. Over the past several years, we have increased our use of supplier financing programs and the factoring of our accounts receivable in order to improve our working capital efficiency and reduce our costs. If these programs become unavailable or less attractive to us or our suppliers, our liquidity could be adversely affected.Future liquidity requirements, or our inability to access cash deposits or make draws on our lines of credit, also may make it necessary for us to incur additional debt. A substantial portion of our assets is subject to liens securing our indebtedness. As a result, we are limited in our ability to pledge our remaining assets as security for additional secured indebtedness.Our inability to access the capital markets or incur additional debt in the future could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations, and could require us to consider further measures, including deferring planned capital expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling additional assets and restructuring existing debt.Financial difficulties, work stoppages, supply disruptions or economic conditions affecting our major OE customers, dealers or suppliers could harm our business.We continued to experience weak, but stabilizing, industry conditions in developed markets in 2013 as the economic recovery in Europe and the United States remained tentative. As a result of these economic conditions and increased competition, our tire unit shipments in 2013 were down 1.1% compared to 2012, and automotive vehicle production and global tire industry demand continues to be difficult to predict.Although sales to our OE customers account for approximately 20% of our net sales, demand for our products by OE customers and production levels at our facilities are impacted by automotive vehicle production. We may experience future declines in sales volume due to declines in new vehicle sales, the discontinuation or sale of certain OE brands, platforms or programs, or weakness in the demand for replacement tires, which could result in us incurring under-absorbed fixed costs at our production facilities or slowing the rate at which we are able to recover those costs.Automotive production can also be affected by labor relation issues, financial difficulties or supply disruptions. Our OE customers could experience production disruptions resulting from their own or supplier labor, financial or supply difficulties. Such events may cause an OE customer to reduce or suspend vehicle production. As a result, an OE customer could halt or significantly reduce purchases of our products, which would harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 13Table of ContentsIn addition, the bankruptcy, restructuring or consolidation of one or more of our major OE customers, dealers or suppliers could result in the write-off of accounts receivable, a reduction in purchases of our products or a supply disruption to our facilities, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Our capital expenditures may not be adequate to maintain our competitive position and may not be implemented in a timely or cost-effective manner.Our capital expenditures are limited by our liquidity and capital resources and the amount we have available for capital spending is limited by the need to pay our other expenses and to maintain adequate cash reserves and borrowing capacity to meet unexpected demands that may arise. We believe that our ratio of capital expenditures to sales is lower than the comparable ratio for our principal competitors.Productivity improvements through process re-engineering, design efficiency and manufacturing cost improvements may be required to offset potential increases in labor and raw material costs and competitive price pressures. In addition, as part of our strategy to increase the percentage of tires that are produced at our lower-cost production facilities and to increase our capacity to produce higher margin tires, we may need to modernize or expand our facilities.  We are currently undertaking significant expansion and modernization projects at certain of our manufacturing facilities in Brazil, Germany and Japan.We may not have sufficient resources to implement planned capital expenditures with minimal disruption to our existing manufacturing operations, or within desired time frames and budgets. Any disruption to our operations, delay in implementing capital improvements or unexpected costs may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.If we are unable to make sufficient capital expenditures, or to maximize the efficiency of the capital expenditures we do make, we may be unable to achieve productivity improvements, which may harm our competitive position, or to manufacture the products necessary to compete successfully in our targeted market segments. In addition, plant modernizations may temporarily disrupt our manufacturing operations and lead to temporary increases in our costs.We have a substantial amount of debt, which could restrict our growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise materially adversely affect our financial health.We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2013, our debt (including capital leases) on a consolidated basis was approximately $6.2 billion. Our substantial amount of debt and other obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could:•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;•impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, acquisitions or general corporate requirements;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we would need to dedicate a substantial portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors.The agreements governing our debt, including our credit agreements, limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring additional debt and we may incur a significant amount of additional debt in the future, including additional secured debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, our ability to satisfy our debt obligations may become more limited.Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability to implement our strategic initiatives, prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service and other obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay expansion plans and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our debt obligations when they become due. We cannot assure you that we would be able to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on terms that are acceptable to us. 14Table of ContentsAny failure to be in compliance with any material provision or covenant of our debt instruments, or a material reduction in the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations.The indentures and other agreements governing our secured credit facilities, senior unsecured notes and our other outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:•incur additional debt or issue redeemable preferred stock;•pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments or investments;•incur liens;•sell assets;•incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us;•enter into affiliate transactions;•engage in sale/leaseback transactions; and•engage in certain mergers or consolidations or transfers of substantially all of our assets.Availability under our first lien revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is based on eligible accounts receivable and inventory. To the extent that our eligible accounts receivable and inventory decline, our borrowing base will decrease and the availability under that facility may decrease below its stated amount. In addition, if at any time the amount of outstanding borrowings and letters of credit under that facility exceeds the borrowing base, we are required to prepay borrowings and/or cash collateralize letters of credit sufficient to eliminate the excess.Our ability to comply with these covenants or to maintain our borrowing base may be affected by events beyond our control, including deteriorating economic conditions, and these events could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us.A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in any of our existing or future financing agreements, including the financial covenants in our secured credit facilities, could result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a default could allow the lenders under our financing agreements, if the agreements so provide, to discontinue lending, to accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, and/or to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any commitments they have to provide us with further funds. If any of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of obligations that become due as a result of any such acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated obligations. Even if we obtain additional or alternative financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that would be acceptable to us.We cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.Our international operations have certain risks that may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.We have manufacturing and distribution facilities throughout the world. Our international operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including:•exposure to local economic conditions;•adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States;•hostility from local populations and insurrections;•adverse foreign currency fluctuations;•adverse currency exchange controls;•government price controls;•withholding taxes and restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings;•labor regulations;•expropriations of property;•the potential instability of foreign governments;•risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities;•export and import restrictions; and•other changes in laws or government policies. 15Table of ContentsThe likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on us vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Certain regions, including Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa, are inherently more economically and politically volatile and as a result, our business units that operate in these regions could be subject to significant fluctuations in sales and operating income from quarter to quarter. Because a significant percentage of our operating income in recent years has come from these regions, adverse fluctuations in the operating results in these regions could have a disproportionate impact on our results of operations in future periods.For example, since 2003, Venezuela has imposed currency exchange controls that fix the exchange rate between the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte and the U.S. dollar and restrict the ability to exchange bolivares fuertes for dollars. These restrictions have delayed and limited our ability to pay third-party and affiliated suppliers and to otherwise repatriate funds from Venezuela, and may continue to do so, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, if we are unable to pay these suppliers in a timely manner, they may cease supplying us. Venezuela has also imposed restrictions on the importation of certain raw materials. If these suppliers cease supplying us or we are unable to import necessary raw materials, we may need to reduce or halt production in Venezuela, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.We have material bolivar fuerte-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities in Venezuela, the value of which will be correspondingly reduced in the event of further devaluations of the bolivar fuerte by the Venezuelan government.The future results of our Venezuelan operations will be affected by many factors, including actions by the Venezuelan government such as further currency devaluations, profit margin or price controls or changes in import controls, economic conditions in Venezuela such as inflation and consumer spending, labor relations, and the availability of raw materials, utilities and energy. Goodyear Venezuela contributes a significant portion of the sales and operating income of our Latin America segment. As a result, any disruption of Goodyear Venezuela’s operations or of our ability to pay suppliers or repatriate funds from Venezuela could have a material adverse impact on the future performance of our Latin America segment and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.In addition, compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions.  These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements.  Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations.  In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations.We have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.The financial position and results of operations of many of our international subsidiaries are initially recorded in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies ordinarily has a negative impact on our reported sales and operating margin (and conversely, the weakening of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a positive impact). For the year ended December 31, 2013, foreign currency translation unfavorably affected sales by $354 million and unfavorably affected segment operating income by $63 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The volatility of currency exchange rates may materially adversely affect our operating results.Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, which would require us to use more of our available cash to service our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into swap agreements or other hedging arrangements in the future, or that existing or future hedging arrangements will offset increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $2.1 billion of variable rate debt outstanding. 16Table of ContentsWe have substantial fixed costs and, as a result, our operating income fluctuates disproportionately with changes in our net sales.We operate with significant operating and financial leverage. Significant portions of our manufacturing, selling, administrative and general expenses are fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with sales. In addition, a significant portion of our interest expense is fixed. There can be no assurance that we would be able to reduce our fixed costs proportionately in response to a decline in our net sales and therefore our competitiveness could be significantly impacted. As a result, a decline in our net sales could result in a higher percentage decline in our income from operations and net income.We may incur significant costs in connection with our contingent liabilities and tax matters.We have significant reserves for contingent liabilities and tax matters.  The major categories of our contingent liabilities include workers' compensation and other employment-related claims, product liability and other tort claims, including asbestos claims, and environmental matters.Our recorded liabilities and estimates of reasonably possible losses for our contingent liabilities are based on our assessment of potential liability using the information available to us at the time and, where applicable, any past experience and recent and current trends with respect to similar matters.  Our contingent liabilities are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable judicial or administrative decisions could occur which we did not anticipate.  Such an unfavorable decision could include monetary damages, fines or other penalties or an injunction prohibiting us from taking certain actions or selling certain products.  If such an unfavorable decision were to occur, it could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations in the period in which the decision occurs, or in future periods.The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations, including with respect to transfer pricing.  While we apply consistent transfer pricing policies and practices globally, support transfer prices through economic studies, seek advance pricing agreements and joint audits to the extent possible and believe our transfer prices to be appropriate, such transfer prices, and related interpretations of tax laws, are occasionally challenged by various taxing authorities globally.  We have received various tax assessments challenging our interpretations of applicable tax laws in various jurisdictions.  Although we believe we have complied with applicable tax laws, have strong positions and defenses and have historically been successful in defending such claims, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected in the case we are unsuccessful in the defense of existing or future claims.If we wish to appeal any future adverse judgment in any of these proceedings, we may be required to post an appeal bond with the relevant court. If we were subject to a significant adverse judgment or experienced an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be required to provide letters of credit or post cash collateral, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.For further information regarding our contingent liabilities and tax matters, refer to the Note to the Consolidated Financial Statements, No. 18, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. For further information regarding our accounting policies with respect to certain of our contingent liabilities and uncertain income tax positions, refer to “Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.”We are subject to extensive government regulations that may materially adversely affect our operating results.We are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or NHTSA, which has established various standards and regulations applicable to tires sold in the United States and tires sold in a foreign country that are identical or substantially similar to tires sold in the United States. NHTSA has the authority to order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having safety-related defects.The Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation Act, or TREAD Act, imposes numerous requirements with respect to the early warning reporting of warranty claims, property damage claims, and bodily injury and fatality claims and also requires tire manufacturers, among other things, to comply with revised and more rigorous tire testing standards. Compliance with the TREAD Act regulations has increased the cost of producing and distributing tires in the United States. In addition, while we believe that our tires are free from design and manufacturing defects, it is possible that a recall of our tires, under the TREAD Act or otherwise, could occur in the future. A substantial recall could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial position.In addition, as required by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, NHTSA will establish a national tire fuel efficiency consumer information program. When the related rule-making process is completed, certain tires sold in the United States will be required to be rated for rolling resistance, traction and tread wear. While the Federal law will preempt state tire fuel efficiency laws adopted after January 1, 2006, we may become subject to additional tire fuel efficiency legislation, either in the United States or other countries. 17Table of ContentsOur European operations are subject to regulation by the European Union. In 2009, two important regulations, the Tire Safety Regulation and the Tire Labeling Regulation, applicable to tires sold in the European Union were adopted. The Tire Safety Regulation sets performance standards that tires for cars and light and commercial trucks need to meet for rolling resistance, wet grip braking (passenger car tires only) and noise in order to be sold in the European Union, and became effective beginning in 2012, with continuing phases that will become effective through 2020. The Tire Labeling Regulation applies to all passenger car, light truck and commercial truck tires and requires that consumers be informed about the tire's fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise characteristics. Other countries, such as Brazil, have also adopted tire labeling regulations, and additional countries may also introduce similar regulations in the future.Tires produced or sold in Europe also have to comply with various other standards, including environmental laws such as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical Substances), which regulates the use of chemicals in the European Union. For example, REACH prohibits the use of highly aromatic oils in tires, which were used as compounding components to improve certain performance characteristics.These U.S. and European regulations, rules adopted to implement these regulations, or other similar regulations that may be adopted in the United States, Europe or elsewhere in the future may require us to alter or increase our capital spending and research and development plans or cease the production of certain tires, which could have a material adverse affect on our operating results.Laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational safety and health are complicated, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. As a manufacturing company, we are subject to these laws and regulations both inside and outside the United States. We may not be in complete compliance with such laws and regulations at all times. Our costs or liabilities relating to them may be more than the amount we have reserved, and that difference may be material.In addition, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of “greenhouse gases” due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. While the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a “cap-and-trade” system similar to the one adopted in the European Union could be adopted in the United States. Any such “cap-and-trade” system (including the system currently in place in the European Union) or other limitations imposed on the emission of “greenhouse gases” could require us to increase our capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Compliance with the laws and regulations described above or any of the myriad of applicable foreign, Federal, state and local laws and regulations currently in effect or that may be adopted in the future could materially adversely affect our competitive position, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.The arbitration proceedings we have brought to dissolve our global alliance with SRI and the terms and conditions of the existing global alliance agreements with SRI could require us to make a substantial payment to acquire SRI’s interest in our European and North American joint ventures.We have commenced arbitration proceedings seeking the dissolution of our global alliance with SRI, damages and other appropriate relief.  Subject to those arbitration proceedings, under the existing global alliance agreements between us and SRI, SRI would have the right to require us to purchase its ownership interests in GDTE and GDTNA if certain triggering events have occurred, including certain bankruptcy events, changes in control of Goodyear or breaches of the global alliance agreements. Any payment required to be made to SRI in respect of the dissolution of the global alliance, which could be offset by payments to us for damages, or pursuant to an exit under the terms of the global alliance agreements could be substantial. If the amount of such a payment exceeds our current expectations, we cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources would be sufficient to make such a payment or, if we were able to make the payment, that there would be sufficient funds remaining to satisfy our other obligations. For further information regarding our global alliance with SRI, including the events that could trigger SRI’s exit rights, see “Item 1. Business. Description of Goodyear’s Business - Global Alliance.”We may be adversely affected by any disruption in, or failure of, our information technology systems.We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology, or IT, systems across all of our major business functions, including our research and development, manufacturing, retail, financial and administrative functions.  We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing upgrades when necessary.  Our security measures are focused on the prevention, detection and remediation of damage from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other similar disruptions.  We may incur significant costs in order to implement the security measures that we feel are necessary to protect our IT systems.  However, our IT systems may remain vulnerable to damage despite our implementation of security measures that we deem to be appropriate.Any system failure, accident or security breach involving our IT systems could result in disruptions to our operations.  A material breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft of our intellectual property or trade secrets, negatively impact our manufacturing or retail operations, or result in the compromise of personal information of our employees, customers or suppliers.   18Table of ContentsTo the extent that any system failure, accident or security breach results in disruptions to our operations or the theft, loss or disclosure of, or damage to, our data or confidential information, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business could be materially adversely affected.Our business substantially depends on the continued service of key members of our management. The loss of the services of a significant number of members of our management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting new high quality employees, our business could be materially adversely affected.We may be impacted by economic and supply disruptions associated with events beyond our control, such as war, acts of terror, political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or natural disasters.We manage businesses and facilities worldwide. Our facilities and operations, and the facilities and operations of our suppliers and customers, could be disrupted by events beyond our control, such as war, acts of terror, political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes or natural disasters. Any such disruption could cause delays in the production and distribution of our products and the loss of sales and customers. We may not be insured against all such potential losses and, if insured, the insurance proceeds that we receive may not adequately compensate us for all of our losses.ITEM 1B