ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    You should carefully consider the risks described below and
    other information contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    when considering an investment decision with respect to our
    securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also
    impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in
    the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business,
    results of operations or financial condition could be materially
    adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading price of
    our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of
    your investment.


 



    If we
    do not achieve projected savings from various cost reduction
    initiatives or successfully implement other strategic
    initiatives our operating results and financial condition may be
    materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business continues to be impacted by trends that have
    negatively affected the tire industry in general, including,
    industry overcapacity, which limits pricing power, increased
    competition from low-cost manufacturers, uncertain economic
    conditions in various parts of the world, high raw material and
    energy costs, weakness in the North American auto industry,
    and weakness in demand for consumer replacement tires in the
    U.S. and Europe. Unlike most other tire manufacturers, we also
    face the continuing burden of legacy pension and postretirement
    benefit costs. In order to offset the impact of these trends, we
    continue to implement various cost reduction initiatives and
    expect to achieve more than $1 billion in gross cost
    savings through 2008 through our four-point cost savings plan
    which includes expected savings from continuous improvement
    processes, increased Asian sourcing, high-cost capacity
    reductions and reduced selling, administrative and general
    expenses. We also expect to achieve approximately
    $610 million in cost savings through 2009 as a result of
    our master labor agreement with the United Steelworkers.
    Approximately $75 million of these savings are related to
    the closure of our Tyler, Texas facility (which savings are also
    included as part of the capacity reduction element of our
    four-point cost savings plan).


 


    Our performance is also dependent on our ability to continue to
    improve the proportion, or mix, of higher margin tires we sell.
    In order to continue this improvement, we must be successful in
    marketing and selling products that offer higher margins such as
    the Assurance, Eagle and Fortera lines of tires and in
    developing additional higher margin tires that achieve broad
    market acceptance in North America and elsewhere.


 


    We cannot assure you that these cost reduction and other
    initiatives will be successful. If not, we may not be able to
    achieve or sustain future profitability, which would impair our
    ability to meet our debt and other obligations and would
    otherwise negatively affect our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    A
    significant aspect of our master labor agreement with the United
    Steelworkers (“USW”) is subject to court and
    regulatory approvals, which, if not received, could result in
    the termination and renegotiation of the
    agreement.


 


    On December 28, 2006, members of the USW ratified the terms
    of a new master labor agreement ending a strike that began on
    October 5, 2006. The new agreement covers approximately
    12,200 workers at 12 tire and Engineered Products plants in the
    United States. In connection with the master labor agreement, we
    also entered into a memorandum of understanding with the USW
    regarding the establishment of an independent Voluntary
    Employees’ Beneficiary Association (“VEBA”). We
    have agreed to make contributions to the VEBA. The VEBA is
    intended to provide healthcare benefits for current and future
    USW retirees. As a result, we expect to be able to eliminate our
    postretirement healthcare (“OPEB”) liability related
    to such benefits. At December 31, 2006, this OPEB liability
    was approximately $1.2 billion. The establishment of the
    VEBA is conditioned upon U.S. District Court approval of a
    settlement of a declaratory judgment action to be filed by the
    USW pursuant to the memorandum of understanding. The USW and we
    will seek the settlement of this action pursuant to a final
    judgment approving a non-opt out
    class-wide
    settlement covering current USW retirees that confirms the
    fairness and structure of the VEBA. Following the District
    Court’s approval of this settlement, we plan to contribute
    $700 million in cash and an additional $300 million in
    either cash or our common stock, at our option. Despite our
    contributions to the VEBA, we will not be able to remove our
    liability for USW retiree healthcare benefits from our balance
    sheet until this settlement has received final judicial approval
    (including the exhaustion of all appeals, if any) and, if we
    have elected to fund $300 million of our contribution with
    our common stock, until we have obtained



    
    16



Table of Contents




    approval of the stock contribution from the U.S. Department of
    Labor. If the VEBA is funded but we are unable to remove this
    liability from our balance sheet (e.g., an approval of the
    District Court is reversed on appeal), we will not be able to
    terminate the VEBA and recover our contributions; rather, the
    funds in the VEBA shall be used to pay for USW retiree health
    and other permissible benefits and we will remain liable to pay
    those benefits. If the VEBA is not approved by the District
    Court (or if the approval of the District Court is subsequently
    reversed), the master labor agreement may be terminated by
    either us or the USW, and negotiations may be reopened on the
    entirety of the master labor agreement. In addition, if we do
    not receive the approval of the U.S. Department of Labor for any
    contribution of our common stock to the VEBA, we have the right
    to terminate the master labor agreement and reopen negotiations.
    If negotiations are reopened, we might be unable to achieve the
    cost reductions we expect to receive from the master labor
    agreement.


 



    We
    face significant global competition and our market share could
    decline.


 


    New tires are sold under highly competitive conditions
    throughout the world. We compete with other tire manufacturers
    on the basis of product design, performance, price and terms,
    reputation, warranty terms, customer service and consumer
    convenience. On a worldwide basis, we have two major
    competitors, Bridgestone (based in Japan) and Michelin (based in
    France), that have large shares of  the markets of the countries
    in which they are based and are aggressively seeking to maintain
    or improve their worldwide market share. Other significant
    competitors include Continental, Cooper Tire, Pirelli, Toyo,
    Yokohama, Kumho, Hankook and various regional tire
    manufacturers. Our competitors produce significant numbers of
    tires in low-cost countries. Our ability to compete successfully
    will depend, in significant part, on our ability to reduce costs
    by such means as reduction of excess capacity, leveraging global
    purchasing, improving productivity, elimination of redundancies
    and increasing production at low-cost supply sources. If we are
    unable to compete successfully, our market share may decline,
    materially adversely affecting our results of operations and
    financial condition.


 



    The
    underfunding levels of our pension plans and our pension
    expenses could materially increase.


 


    Substantially all of our U.S. and many of our
    non-U.S. employees
    participate in defined benefit pension plans. In previous
    periods, we have experienced declines in interest rates and
    pension asset values. Future declines in interest rates or the
    market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain
    other changes, could materially increase the underfunded status
    of our plans and affect the level and timing of required
    contributions in 2008 and beyond. The unfunded amount of the
    projected benefit obligation for our U.S. and
    non-U.S. pension
    plans was $1,367 million and $1,077 million at
    December 31, 2006, respectively, and we currently estimate
    that we will be required to make contributions to our domestic
    pension plans of approximately $550 million to
    $575 million in 2007, and $200 million to
    $225 million in 2008. A material increase in the
    underfunded status of the plans could significantly increase our
    required contributions and pension expenses and impair our
    ability to achieve or sustain future profitability.


 



    Higher
    raw material and energy costs may materially adversely affect
    our operating results and financial condition.


 


    Raw material costs increased significantly over the past few
    years driven by increases in prices of oil and natural rubber.
    Market conditions may prevent us from passing these increased
    costs on to our customers through timely price increases.
    Additionally, higher raw material costs around the world may
    offset our efforts to reduce our cost structure. As a result,
    higher raw material and energy costs could result in declining
    margins and operating results.


 



    Pricing
    pressures from vehicle manufacturers may materially adversely
    affect our business.


 


    Approximately 29% of the tires we sell are sold to vehicle
    manufacturers for mounting as OE. Pricing pressure from vehicle
    manufacturers has been a characteristic of the tire industry in
    recent years. Many vehicle manufacturers have policies of
    seeking price reductions each year. Although we have taken steps
    to reduce costs and resist price reductions, current and future
    price reductions could materially adversely impact our sales and
    profit margins. If we are unable to offset future price
    reductions through improved operating efficiencies and cost
    reductions, those price reductions may result in declining
    margins and operating results.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 



    Pending
    litigation relating to our 2003 restatement could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows
    and results of operation.


 


    A number of lawsuits were filed against us and certain of our
    current or former officers and directors following our October
    2003 announcement regarding the restatement of our previously
    issued financial results. These actions were consolidated into
    three separate actions in the United States district Court for
    the Northern District of Ohio. Although the District Court has
    dismissed two of these actions (a purported securities class
    action alleging fraud and a derivative action), it has denied
    our motion to dismiss an action based on alleged breach of
    fiduciary duties under the Employee Retirement Income Security
    Act (“ERISA”). We intend to vigorously defend the
    ERISA action. However, we cannot currently predict or determine
    the outcome or resolution of this proceeding or the timing for
    its resolution, or reasonably estimate the amount, or potential
    range, of possible loss, if any. In addition to any damages that
    we may suffer, our management’s efforts and attention may
    be diverted from our ordinary business operations in order to
    address this action. The final resolution of this action could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash
    flows and results of operations.


 



    Our
    long term ability to meet our obligations and to repay maturing
    indebtedness is dependent on our ability to access capital
    markets in the future and to improve our operating
    results.


 


    The adequacy of our liquidity depends on our ability to achieve
    an appropriate combination of operating improvements, financing
    from third parties, access to capital markets and asset sales.
    Although we completed a major refinancing of our senior secured
    credit facilities on April 8, 2005, and issued
    $1 billion in senior unsecured notes in November 2006, we
    may undertake additional financing actions in the capital
    markets in order to ensure that our future liquidity
    requirements are addressed. These actions may include the
    issuance of additional equity.


 


    Our access to the capital markets cannot be assured and is
    dependent on, among other things, the degree of success we have
    in implementing our cost reduction plans and improving the
    results of our North American Tire Segment. Future liquidity
    requirements also may make it necessary for us to incur
    additional debt. A substantial portion of our assets is subject
    to liens securing our indebtedness. As a result, we are limited
    in our ability to pledge our remaining assets as security for
    additional secured indebtedness. Our failure to access the
    capital markets or incur additional debt in the future could
    have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations,
    and could require us to consider further measures, including
    deferring planned capital expenditures, reducing discretionary
    spending, selling additional assets and restructuring existing
    debt.


 



    We
    have a substantial amount of debt, which could restrict our
    growth, place us at a competitive disadvantage or otherwise
    materially adversely affect our financial health.


 


    We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31,
    2006, our debt (including capital leases) on a consolidated
    basis was approximately $7.2 billion. Our substantial
    amount of debt and other obligations could have important
    consequences. For example, it could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;






     
        • 

    
    impair our ability to obtain financing in the future for working
    capital, capital expenditures, research and development,
    acquisitions or general corporate requirements;






     
        • 

    
    increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and
    industry conditions;






     
        • 

    
    limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
    our business because we would need to dedicate a substantial
    portion of these funds for payments on our indebtedness;






     
        • 

    
    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes
    in our business and the industry in which we operate; and






     
        • 

    
    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors that have less debt.





 


    The agreements governing our debt, including our credit
    agreements, limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring
    additional debt and we may incur a significant amount of
    additional debt in the future, including additional secured
    debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, our
    ability to satisfy our debt obligations may become more limited.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our
    debt and other obligations will depend on our financial and
    operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to our ability
    to implement our cost reduction initiatives and other
    strategies, prevailing economic conditions and certain
    financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our
    cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our
    debt service and other obligations, including required pension
    contributions, we may be forced to reduce or delay expansion
    plans and capital expenditures, sell material assets or
    operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt.
    We cannot assure you that our operating performance, cash flow
    and capital resources will be sufficient to pay our debt
    obligations when they become due. We cannot assure you that we
    would be able to dispose of material assets or operations or
    restructure our debt or other obligations if necessary or, even
    if we were able to take such actions, that we could do so on
    terms that were acceptable to us.


 



    Any
    failure to be in compliance with any material provision or
    covenant of our debt instruments could have a material adverse
    effect on our liquidity and operations.


 


    The indentures and other agreements governing our secured credit
    facilities, senior secured notes, senior unsecured notes and our
    other outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and
    financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may affect our
    ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to
    take advantage of potential business opportunities as they
    arise. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other
    things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock;






     
        • 

    
    pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our
    capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or make other
    restricted payments;






     
        • 

    
    enter into transactions with affiliates;






     
        • 

    
    create or incur liens to secure debt;






     
        • 

    
    make certain investments;






     
        • 

    
    enter into sale/leaseback transactions;






     
        • 

    
    sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets;






     
        • 

    
    incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain
    subsidiaries;






     
        • 

    
    use proceeds from the sale of certain assets; and






     
        • 

    
    engage in certain mergers or consolidations and transfers of
    substantially all assets.





 


    Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by
    events beyond our control, and unanticipated events could
    require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or
    alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We
    cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative
    financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms
    acceptable to us.


 


    Our first lien credit facility and European term loan and
    revolving credit facility require us to maintain certain
    specified thresholds of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated
    Interest Expense (as defined in each of the facilities). In
    addition, under these facilities, we are required not to permit
    our ratio of Consolidated Net Secured Indebtedness (net of cash
    in excess of $400 million) to Consolidated EBITDA to be
    greater than certain specified thresholds. These restrictions
    could limit our ability to plan for or react to market
    conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise
    restrict capital activities.


 


    A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in
    any of our existing or future financing agreements, including
    the financial covenants in our secured credit facilities, could
    result in an event of default under those agreements. Such a
    default could allow the lenders under our financing agreements,
    if the agreements so provide, to discontinue lending, to
    accelerate the related debt as well as any other debt to which a
    cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies,
    and/or to
    declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and
    payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any
    commitments they have to provide us with further funds. If any
    of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have
    sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of
    obligations that become due as a result of any such
    acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or
    alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated
    obligations. Even if we obtain additional or alternative
    financing, we cannot assure you that it would be on terms that
    would be acceptable to us.


 


    We cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in
    compliance with the covenants to which we are subject in the
    future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain
    waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants.



    
    19



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    capital expenditures may not be adequate to maintain our
    competitive position.


 


    Our capital expenditures are limited by our liquidity and
    capital resources and restrictions in our credit agreements. The
    amount Goodyear has available for capital spending is limited by
    the need to pay its other expenses and to maintain adequate cash
    reserves and borrowing capacity to meet unexpected demands that
    may arise. In addition, our credit facilities limit the amount
    of capital expenditures that we may make to $700 million in
    each year through 2010. The amounts of permitted capital
    expenditures may be increased with the proceeds of equity
    issuances. In addition, unused capital expenditures may be
    carried over into the next year. As a result of carryovers, our
    permitted capital expenditures for 2007 are $855 million,
    and we expect our capital expenditures in 2007 will be between
    $750 million and $800 million. Capital expenditures as
    defined in our borrowing agreements do not include capitalized
    software and include non-cash capital lease transactions and,
    accordingly, differ from capital expenditures reported in our
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We believe that our ratio
    of capital expenditures to sales is lower than the comparable
    ratio for our principal competitors.


 


    Productivity improvements through process re-engineering, design
    efficiency and manufacturing cost improvements may be required
    to offset potential increases in labor and raw material costs
    and competitive price pressures. In addition, as part of our
    strategy to increase the percentage of tires sold in higher cost
    markets that are produced at our lower-cost production
    facilities, we may need to modernize or expand certain of those
    facilities. If we are unable to make sufficient capital
    expenditures, or to maximize the efficiency of the capital
    expenditures we do make, we may be unable to achieve
    productivity improvements, which may harm our competitive
    position.


 



    Our
    variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk,
    which could cause our debt service obligations to increase
    significantly.


 


    Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and
    expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our
    debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would
    increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same,
    which would require us to use more of our available cash to
    service our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will
    be able to enter into swap agreements or other hedging
    arrangements in the future, or that existing or future hedging
    arrangements will offset increases in interest rates. As of
    December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4.2 billion
    of variable rate debt outstanding.


 



    We may
    incur significant costs in connection with asbestos
    claims.


 


    We are among many defendants named in legal proceedings
    involving claims of individuals relating to alleged exposure to
    asbestos. At December 31, 2006, approximately 124,000
    claims were pending against us alleging various asbestos-related
    personal injuries purported to have resulted from alleged
    exposure to asbestos in certain rubber encapsulated products or
    aircraft braking systems manufactured by us in the past or to
    asbestos in certain of our facilities. We expect that additional
    claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate
    liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is
    subject to various uncertainties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the number of claims that are brought in the future;






     
        • 

    
    the costs of defending and settling these claims;






     
        • 

    
    the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers;






     
        • 

    
    the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to
    pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we
    have historically settled claims;






     
        • 

    
    the risk of changes in the litigation environment or Federal and
    state law governing the compensation of asbestos
    claimants; and






     
        • 

    
    the risk that the bankruptcies of other asbestos defendants may
    increase our costs.





 


    Because of the uncertainties related to such claims, it is
    possible that we may incur a material amount in excess of our
    current reserve for such claims. In addition, if any of the
    foregoing risks were to materialize, the resulting costs could
    have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial
    position and results of operations in future periods.



    
    20



Table of Contents



 



    We may
    be required to deposit cash collateral to support an appeal bond
    if we are subject to a significant adverse judgment, which may
    have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.


 


    We are subject to various legal proceedings. If we wish to
    appeal any future adverse judgment in any of these proceedings,
    we may be required to post an appeal bond with the relevant
    court. We may be required to issue a letter of credit to the
    surety posting the bond. We may issue up to an aggregate of
    $700 million in letters of credit under our
    $1.5 billion U.S. first lien credit facility. As of
    December 31, 2006, we had approximately $506 million
    in letters of credit issued under this facility. If we are
    subject to a significant adverse judgment and do not have
    sufficient availability under our credit facilities to issue a
    letter of credit to support an appeal bond, we may be required
    to pay down borrowings under the facilities or deposit cash
    collateral in order to stay the enforcement of the judgment
    pending an appeal. A significant deposit of cash collateral may
    have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. If we are
    unable to post cash collateral, we may be unable to stay
    enforcement of the judgment.


 



    We are
    subject to extensive government regulations that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    We are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation
    through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or
    NHTSA, which has established various standards and regulations
    applicable to tires sold in the United States and tires sold in
    a foreign country that are identical or substantially similar to
    tires sold in the United States. NHTSA has the authority to
    order the recall of automotive products, including tires, having
    safety-related defects. NHTSA’s regulatory authority was
    expanded in November 2000 as a result of the enactment of the
    Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and
    Documentation Act, or TREAD Act. The TREAD Act imposes numerous
    requirements with respect to the early warning reporting of
    warranty claims, property damage claims, and bodily injury and
    fatality claims and also requires tire manufacturers, among
    other things, to conform with revised and more rigorous tire
    testing standards, once the revised standards are implemented.
    Compliance with the TREAD Act regulations has increased and will
    continue to increase the cost of producing and distributing
    tires in the United States. In addition, while we believe that
    our tires are free from design and manufacturing defects, it is
    possible that a recall of our tires, under the TREAD Act or
    otherwise, could occur in the future. A substantial recall could
    have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating
    results and financial position. Compliance with these and other
    Federal, state and local laws and regulations in the future may
    require a material increase in our capital expenditures and
    could materially adversely affect the Company’s earnings
    and competitive position.


 



    Our
    International operations have certain risks that may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Goodyear has manufacturing and distribution facilities
    throughout the world. The international operations are subject
    to certain inherent risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    exposure to local economic conditions;






     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States;






     
        • 

    
    hostility from local populations and insurrections;






     
        • 

    
    adverse currency exchange controls;






     
        • 

    
    restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and
    earnings;






     
        • 

    
    withholding taxes and restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign
    investment and earnings;






     
        • 

    
    labor regulations;






     
        • 

    
    expropriations of property;






     
        • 

    
    the potential instability of foreign governments;






     
        • 

    
    risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements
    with governmental authorities;






     
        • 

    
    export and import restrictions; and






     
        • 

    
    other changes in laws or government policies.





 


    The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on
    Goodyear vary from country to country and are unpredictable.
    Certain regions, including Latin America and Asia, are
    inherently more economically and politically volatile and as a
    result, our business units that operate in these regions could
    be subject to significant fluctuations in sales and operating
    income from quarter to quarter. Because a significant percentage
    of our operating income in



    
    21



Table of Contents




    recent years has come from these regions, adverse fluctuations
    in the operating results in these regions could have a
    disproportionate impact on our results of operations in future
    periods.


 



    We
    have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may
    materially adversely affect our operating results.


 


    The financial condition and results of operations of our
    international subsidiaries are reported in various foreign
    currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the
    applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial
    statements. As a result, the appreciation of the
    U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies has a negative
    impact on our reported sales and operating margin (and
    conversely, the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against
    these foreign currencies has a positive impact). For year ended
    December 31, 2006, we estimate that foreign currency
    translation favorably impacted sales and segment operating
    income by approximately $218 million and $66 million,
    respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2005.
    The volatility of currency exchange rates may materially
    adversely affect our operating results.


 



    The
    terms and conditions of our global alliance with Sumitomo Rubber
    Industries, Ltd. (“SRI”) provide for certain exit
    rights available to SRI upon the occurrence of certain events,
    which could require us to make a substantial payment to acquire
    SRI’s interest in certain of their joint venture
    alliances.


 


    In 1999, we entered into a global alliance with SRI. Under the
    global alliance agreements, we acquired 75%, and SRI owned 25%,
    of Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe B.V., which concurrently with
    the transaction acquired substantially all of SRI’s tire
    businesses in Europe and most of Goodyear’s tire businesses
    in Europe. We also acquired 75%, and SRI acquired 25%, of
    Goodyear Dunlop Tires North America, Ltd., a holding company
    that purchased SRI’s tire manufacturing operations in North
    America and certain of its primarily OE-related tire sales and
    distribution operations. In addition, we also acquired 25% of
    the capital stock of two newly-formed tire companies in Japan,
    as well as 51% of the capital stock of a newly-formed technology
    company and 80% of the capital stock of a newly-formed global
    purchasing company. SRI owns the balance of the capital stock in
    each of these companies. Under the Umbrella Agreement between us
    and SRI, SRI has the right to require us to purchase from SRI
    its ownership interests in the European and North American joint
    ventures in September 2009 if certain triggering events have
    occurred. In addition, the occurrence of certain other events
    enumerated in the Umbrella Agreement, including certain
    bankruptcy events or changes in control of Goodyear, could
    provide SRI with the right to require us to repurchase these
    interests immediately. While we have not done any current
    valuation of these businesses, our cost of acquiring an interest
    in these businesses in 1999 was approximately $1.2 billion.
    Any payment required to be made to SRI pursuant to an exit under
    the terms of the global alliance agreements could be
    substantial. We cannot assure you that our operating
    performance, cash flow and capital resources would be sufficient
    to make such a payment or, if we were able to make the payment,
    that there would be sufficient funds remaining to satisfy our
    other obligations. The withdrawal of SRI from the global
    alliance could also have other adverse effects on our business.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business
    could be materially adversely affected.


 


    Our business substantially depends on the continued service of
    key members of our management. The loss of the services of a
    significant number of members of our management could have a
    material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will
    also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled
    personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management
    professionals. Competition for these employees is intense, and
    we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and
    retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we
    do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting
    new high quality employees, our business could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Work
    stoppages or supply disruptions at our major OE customers could
    harm our business.


 


    Although sales to our OE customers account for less than 20% of
    our net sales, demand for our products in the OE segment and
    production levels at our facilities are directly related to
    automotive vehicle production. Automotive production can be
    affected by labor relations issues. A number of major OE
    customers will be entering collective bargaining negotiations
    with their respective unionized workforces this year. The
    outcome of these negotiations is



    
    22



Table of Contents




    uncertain and it is possible that our OE customers could
    experience a labor strike, work stoppage or similar difficulty.
    Our OE customers could also experience a disruption in supply
    resulting from labor difficulties from suppliers. Such events
    may cause an OE customer to reduce or suspend vehicle
    production. In such an event, the affected OE customer could
    halt or significantly reduce purchases of our products, which
    would increase our production costs and harm our results of
    operations and financial condition.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B