Item 1A:  Risk Factors

The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to Grainger’s business that could adversely affect its financial position or results of operations.

 

Weakness in the economy could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth. Economic and industry trends affect Grainger’s business environments.  Economic downturns can cause customers, both commercial and government, to idle or close facilities, delay purchases and otherwise reduce their ability to purchase Grainger’s products and services as well as their ability to make full and timely payments. Thus, a significant or prolonged slowdown in economic activity could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth and results of operations.

 

The facilities maintenance industry is highly fragmented, and changes in competition could result in a decreased demand for Grainger’s products and services. There are several large competitors in the industry, although most of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and Internet-based businesses. Competitive pressures could adversely affect Grainger’s sales and profitability.

 

Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect operating margins. Some of Grainger’s products contain significant amounts of commodity-priced materials, such as steel, copper, or oil, and are subject to price changes based upon fluctuations in the commodities market. Increases in the price of fuel could also drive up transportation costs. Grainger’s ability to pass on increases in costs depends on market conditions. The inability to pass along costs increases could result in lower operating margins. In addition, higher prices could impact demand for these products resulting in lower sales volumes.



  



5







  



Unexpected product shortages could negatively impact customer relationships, resulting in an adverse impact on results of operations. Grainger’s competitive strengths include product selection and availability. Products are purchased from more than 3,000 key suppliers, no one of which accounted for more than 5% of total purchases. Historically, no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply; however, economic downturns can adversely affect a supplier’s ability to manufacture or deliver products. If Grainger were to experience difficulty in obtaining products, there could be a short-term adverse effect on results of operations and a longer-term
 adverse effect on customer relationships and Grainger’s reputation. In addition, Grainger has strategic relationships with key vendors. In the event Grainger was unable to maintain those relations, there might be a loss of competitive pricing advantages which could, in turn, adversely affect results of operations.

 

The addition of new product lines could impact future sales growth. Grainger, from time to time, expands the breadth of its offerings by increasing the number of products it distributes. In 2006, Grainger launched a multiyear product line expansion program. The continued success of this program is expected to be a driver of growth in 2011 and beyond. Its success will depend on Grainger’s ability to accurately forecast market demand, obtain products from suppliers and effectively integrate these products into the supply chain. As such, there is a risk that the product line expansion program will not deliver the expected results which could negatively impact anticipated future sales growth.

 

Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems or breaches of information systems security could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of Grainger’s information systems is critical to the successful operation of its business. Although Grainger’s information systems are protected with robust backup and security systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail, are breac
hed or are otherwise unavailable, Grainger’s ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses and maintain the security of Company, customer and employee data could be adversely affected.

 

In order to compete, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on results of operations.  In order to compete and have continued growth, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Grainger competes to hire employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Grainger’s operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.

 

Fluctuations in foreign currency have an effect on reported results of operations.  Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations have an impact on sales, costs and cash flows from international operations, and could affect reported financial performance.

 

Acquisitions involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could result in the benefits anticipated not being realized and have an adverse effect on results of operations.  Acquisitions, both foreign and domestic, involve various inherent risks, such as uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of acquired companies. There is a risk of potential losses of key employees of an acquired business and an ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition.  Additionally, p
roblems could arise from the integration of the acquired business including unanticipated changes in the business or industry, or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition.  Any one or more of these factors could cause Grainger not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions or have a negative impact on the fair value of the reporting units. Accordingly, goodwill and intangible assets recorded as a result of acquisitions could become impaired.

 

The Company’s business is subject to the risks of international operations.  Grainger derives a growing portion of its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to Grainger’s international operations, including without limitation import and export requirements, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and such costs may rise in the future as a 
result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. Furthermore, Grainger has implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or Grainger’s policies. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect Grainger’s financial condition or operating results.

 

Item 1B