Item 1A: Risk Factors The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to Grainger's business that could adversely affect its financial position or results of operations. Weakness in the economy could negatively impact Grainger's sales growth. Economic and industry trends affect Grainger's business environments. Economic downturns can cause customers, both domestic and international, to idle or close facilities, delay purchases and otherwise reduce their purchases of Grainger's products and services as well as their ability to make full and timely payments. Thus, a significant or prolonged slowdown in economic activity in the United States, Canada or any other major world economy could negatively impact Grainger's sales growth and results of operations.The facilities maintenance industry is highly fragmented, and changes in competition could result in decreased demand for Grainger's products and services. There are several large competitors in the industry, although most of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and Internet-based businesses. The industry is also consolidating as customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. These customer needs could result in fewer suppliers as the remaining suppliers become larger and capable of consistent sources of supply. Competitive pressures could adversely affect Grainger's sales and profitability.Changes in inflation may adversely affect gross margins. Inflation impacts the costs at which Grainger can procure product and the ability to increase prices to customers over time.  Prolonged periods of low inflation could adversely affect the degree to which Grainger is able to recover inflationary costs or increase sales through price escalation.Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect gross margins. Some of Grainger's products contain significant amounts of commodity-priced materials, such as steel, copper, petroleum derivatives or rare earth minerals, and are subject to price changes based upon fluctuations in the commodities market. Increases in the price of fuel could also drive up transportation costs. Grainger's ability to pass on such increases in costs in a timely manner depends on market conditions. The inability to pass along cost increases could result in lower gross margins. In addition, higher prices could impact demand for these products, resulting in lower sales volumes.Unexpected product shortages could negatively impact customer relationships, resulting in an adverse impact on results of operations. Grainger's competitive strengths include product selection and availability. Products are purchased from more than 4,500 key suppliers located in various countries around the world, no one of which accounted for more than 5% of total purchases. Historically, no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply; however, disruptions could occur due to factors beyond Grainger's control, such as economic downturns, political unrest, port slowdowns, trade issues, etc., any of which could adversely affect a supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver products. As Grainger continues to source lower cost products from Asia and other areas of the world, the risk for disruptions has increased due to the additional lead time required and distances involved. If Grainger was to experience difficulty in obtaining products, there could be a short-term adverse effect on results of operations and a longer-term adverse effect on customer relationships and Grainger's reputation. In addition, Grainger has strategic relationships with key vendors. In the event Grainger was unable to maintain those relations, there might be a loss of competitive pricing advantages which could, in turn, adversely affect results of operations. Changes in customer or product mix could cause the gross margin percentage to decline.  From time to time, Grainger experiences changes in customer and product mix that effect gross margin. Changes in customer and product mix result primarily from business acquisitions, changes in customer demand, customer acquisitions, selling and marketing activities and competition. If rapid growth with large customers continues, Grainger will face pressure to maintain current gross margins, as this customer segment receives discounted pricing due to their higher sales volume. There can be no assurance that Grainger will be able to maintain historical gross margins in the future.Disruptions in Grainger's supply chain could result in an adverse impact on results of operations. A disruption within Grainger's logistics or supply chain network, including damage, destruction, extreme weather and other events which would cause one or more of the distribution centers to become non-operational, could adversely affect Grainger's ability to deliver inventory in a timely manner, impair Grainger's ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales or damage to Grainger's reputation. Grainger's ability to provide same-day shipping and next-day delivery is an integral component of the business strategy and any such disruption could adversely impact the results of operations. 7Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of Grainger's information systems, including its websites, is critical to the successful operation of its business. Grainger continues to invest in software, hardware and network infrastructures in order to effectively manage its information systems and websites. Although Grainger's information systems are protected with robust backup and security systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, computer viruses, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or otherwise become unavailable, among other things, Grainger's ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable and disburse funds could be adversely affected.  Any such interruption of Grainger's information systems could also subject Grainger to additional costs.Breaches of information systems security could damage Grainger's reputation, disrupt operations, increase costs and/or decrease revenues. Through Grainger's sales and eCommerce channels, Grainger collects and stores confidential information that customers provide to, among other things, purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs and register on the website. Grainger also acquires and retains information about suppliers and employees in the normal course of business. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, computer hackers may attempt to penetrate Grainger's or its vendors' information systems and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer, supplier, employee or other business information. In addition, a Grainger employee, contractor or other third party with whom Grainger does business may attempt to circumvent security measures in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Loss of customer, supplier, employee or other business information could disrupt operations, damage Grainger's reputation and expose Grainger to claims from customers, suppliers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on Grainger, its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with tougher privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant additional expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes.Fluctuations in foreign currency have an effect on reported results of operations. Grainger’s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of Grainger’s subsidiaries outside the United States are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of Grainger’s international subsidiaries could cause fluctuations in reported results. Grainger also has foreign currency exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in the subsidiary’s functional currency, and could have an impact on sales, costs and cash flows.Acquisitions involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could result in the benefits anticipated not being realized and could have an adverse effect on results of operations. Acquisitions, both foreign and domestic, involve various inherent risks, such as uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of acquired companies. There is a risk of potential loss of key employees of an acquired business and of an inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition. Additionally, problems could arise from the integration of the acquired business including unanticipated changes in the business or industry, or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause Grainger to not realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions or have a negative impact on the fair value of the reporting units. Accordingly, goodwill and intangible assets recorded as a result of acquisitions could become impaired.  8In order to compete, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on results of operations. In order to compete and have continued growth, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Grainger competes to hire employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Grainger's operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Grainger's continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of Grainger's reputation. One of the reasons why customers choose to do business with Grainger and why employees choose Grainger as a place of employment is the reputation that Grainger has built over many years. To be successful in the future, Grainger must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of Grainger's brand. Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities. Even an isolated incident, or the aggregate effect of individually insignificant incidents, can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, and as a result, could tarnish Grainger's brand and lead to adverse effects on Grainger's business.Grainger's business is subject to various government regulations. Grainger's business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations in every jurisdiction where it operates, and compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of doing business. Grainger is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including without limitation import and export requirements, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, regulations and potential expansion of regulations on suppliers regarding the sources of supplies or products, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, and is also subject to audits and inquiries in the ordinary course of business. As a government contractor selling to federal, state and local government entities, Grainger is also subject to a wide variety of additional laws and regulations. Changes to the legal and regulatory environments could increase the cost of doing business, and such costs may increase in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. Furthermore, Grainger has implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that employees, contractors or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or Grainger's policies. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect Grainger's financial condition or operating results.Item 1B