Item 1A:  Risk Factors

 

The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to Grainger’s business that could adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.

 

A slowdown in the economy could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth. Economic and industry trends affect Grainger’s business environment. Grainger’s sales growth has tended to correlate with commercial activity, manufacturing output and non-farm employment levels. Thus, a slowdown in economic activity could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth.

 

The facilities maintenance industry is a highly fragmented industry, and competition could result in a decreased demand for Grainger’s products. There are several large competitors in the industry, although most of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses and certain retail enterprises. Competitive pressures could adversely affect Grainger’s sales and profitability. 

 

Unexpected product shortages could negatively impact customer relationships, resulting in an adverse impact on results of operations. Grainger’s competitive strengths include product selection and availability. Products are purchased from more than 1,200 key suppliers, no one of which accounts for more than 10% of purchases. Historically, no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply. If Grainger were to experience difficulty in obtaining products, there could be a short-term adverse affect on results of operations and a longer-term adverse effect on customer relationships and reputation. In addition, Grainger has strategic relationships with key vendors. In the event Grainger was unable to maintain those relations, there might be a loss of competitive pricing advantages which could in turn adversely affect results of operations.

 

A delay in the implementation of Grainger’s multiyear market expansion program could negatively affect anticipated future sales growth. In 2004, Grainger launched a multiyear market expansion program to strengthen its presence in top metropolitan markets and better position itself to serve the local customer. The program is being implemented in these markets in a phased approach. The success of the market expansion program is expected to be a driver of growth in 2006 and beyond. A delay in the implementation of the program or lower than projected results from the program could negatively impact anticipated future sales growth.

 

The addition of new product lines could impact future sales growth. Grainger may, from time to time, expand the breadth of its offerings by increasing the number of products it distributes. The success of these expansions will depend on Grainger’s ability to accurately forecast market demand and to obtain product from suppliers.

 

5

 













 

Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs or decreases in revenues, or both. The proper functioning of Grainger’s information systems is critical to the successful operation of its business. Although Grainger’s information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities exist, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, Grainger’s ability to process orders, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable and pay expenses could be adversely affected. In January 2006, Grainger installed an upgraded SAP branch operating system and
replaced its legacy information systems for the U.S. branch-based businesses. Implementation of this system at other Grainger businesses is scheduled for future years. 

 

Item 1B