Item 1A:  Risk Factors

 

The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to Grainger’s business that could adversely affect its financial position or results of operations.

 

A slowdown in economic activity could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth. Economic and industry trends affect Grainger’s business environments. Grainger’s sales growth has tended to correlate with commercial activity, manufacturing output and non-farm employment levels. Thus, a slowdown in economic activity could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth.

 

The facilities maintenance industry is a highly fragmented industry, and competition could result in a decreased demand for Grainger’s products and services. There are several large competitors in the industry, although most of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses and retail enterprises. Competitive pressures could adversely affect Grainger’s sales and profitability. 

 

Unexpected product shortages could negatively impact customer relationships, resulting in an adverse impact on results of operations. Grainger’s competitive strengths include product selection and availability. Products are purchased from approximately 3,000 key suppliers, no one of which accounts for more than 5% of purchases. Historically, no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply. If Grainger were to experience difficulty in obtaining products, there could be a short-term adverse effect on results of operations and a longer-term adverse effect on customer relationships and Grainger’s reputation. In addition, Grainger has strategic relationships with key vendors. In the event Grainger was unable to maintain those relations, there might be a loss of competitive pricing advantages which could in turn adversely affect results of operations.

 

5





A delay in the completion or lower than projected results from Grainger’s multiyear market expansion program could negatively affect anticipated future sales growth. In 2004, Grainger launched a six phase market expansion program in the United States to strengthen its presence in top metropolitan markets and better position itself to serve the local customer. The program is being implemented in these markets in a phased approach. The success of the market expansion program is expected to be a driver of growth in 2008 and beyond. The first phase of the market expansion program was completed in 2005. The second, third and fourth phases of the market expansion program were completed in 2007. Phases five and six were more than 50% complete at December 31, 2007, and are expected to be completed during 2008. A delay in the completion of the program or lower than projected
results from the program could negatively impact anticipated future sales growth.

 

The addition of new product lines could impact future sales growth. Grainger, from time to time, expands the breadth of its offerings by increasing the number of products it distributes. In 2006, Grainger launched a multiyear product line expansion program. The success of the expansion program is expected to be a driver of growth in 2008 and beyond. The success of these expansions will depend on Grainger’s ability to accurately forecast market demand, obtain products from suppliers and effectively integrate these products into the supply chain.

 

Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs or decreases in revenues, or both. The proper functioning of Grainger’s information systems is critical to the successful operation of its business. Although Grainger’s information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities exist, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, Grainger’s ability to process orders, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses and maintain the security of Company and customer data could be
adversely affected. 

 

In order to compete, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on results of operations. In order to compete and have continued growth, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Grainger competes to hire employees, and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Grainger’s operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. 

 

Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters, such as stock-based compensation, insurance and inventory reserves, income taxes and postretirement healthcare benefits are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by management could significantly change reported results. 

 

Item 1B