Item 1A of Part I of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement (except as required by law). This report also makes reference to our awarded business, which represents the estimated future lifetime net sales for all our automotive customers. Our awarded business does not represent firm customer orders. We report our awarded business primarily based on written award letters from our customers. To validate these awards, we use various assumptions including global vehicle production forecasts, customer take rates for our products, revisions to product life-cycle estimates and the impact of annual price reductions and exchange rates, among other factors. The term “take rate” represents the number of units sold by us divided by an estimate of the total number of vehicles of a specific vehicle line produced during the same timeframe. The assumptions we use to validate these awards are updated and reported externally on an annual basis. 
Market, ranking and other data 
In this report, we refer to information regarding market data obtained from internal sources, market research, publicly available information and industry publications. Estimates are inherently uncertain, involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed under the caption “Risk Factors” which is located in Item 1A of Part I of this report. 
 
 
2

 
Part I




Item 1.

Business 
Our Company 
We believe we are a leader in the design and engineering of connected products and solutions for automakers, consumers and enterprises worldwide, including connected car systems, audio and visual products, enterprise automation solutions and connected services. We have developed, both internally and through a series of strategic acquisitions, a broad range of product offerings sold under renowned brand names in our principal markets. Our AKG®, AMX®, Crown®, Harman/Kardon®, Infinity®, JBL®, JBL Professional, Lexicon®, Mark Levinson®, Martin®, Revel®, Soundcraft® and Studer® brand names are well known worldwide for premium quality and performance. Our software solutions power mobile devices and systems that are designed to be connected, integrated, personalized and adaptive across all platforms, from work and home, to car and mobile. 
Connected Car 
Our Connected Car segment designs, manufactures and markets connected car systems for vehicle applications to be installed primarily as original equipment by automotive manufacturers. Our scalable connected car platforms deliver enhanced and connected capabilities to the car, including intelligent high-performance navigation with embedded solutions for multimedia, premium entertainment tuners, and on-board and off-board connectivity that address a wide range of vehicle categories. Leveraging a software-driven computer platform, we offer an integrated suite of technologies that extends beyond infotainment to encompass telematics, connected safety, and over-the-air update capabilities.  We also offer a comprehensive suite of automotive cyber security solutions through a multi-layer architecture that can protect not only future vehicles, but connected cars on the road today. Global customers for our connected car systems include BMW, Daimler, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Ford, Geely, General Motors, Hyundai, Qoros, Subaru, Suzuki, TATA Group, Toyota/Lexus, Ssangyong, the Volkswagen Group and Yamaha. We also produce an infotainment system for Harley-Davidson touring motorcycles. 
Lifestyle Audio
Our Lifestyle Audio segment designs, manufactures and markets car audio systems for vehicle applications to be installed primarily as original equipment by automotive manufacturers, as well as a wide range of consumer audio products including mid-to high-end loudspeakers and electronics, headphones, embedded audio products for consumer electronics and branded portable wireless speakers. We believe that we continue to redefine audio excellence for the home, the car and on-the-go listening. Our Lifestyle Audio products are marketed worldwide under renowned brand names including AKG, Harman/Kardon, Infinity, JBL, JBL Professional, Lexicon, Mark Levinson, JBL Synthesis® and Revel.  We also have rights to use the Bowers & Wilkins®, Bang & Olufsen® and Canton® brand names within the automotive space. Global customers for our premium car audio systems include Aston Martin, BMW, Daimler, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Ford, Geely, General Motors, Great Wall, Hyundai, McLaren, PSA Peugeot Citroën, SAIC, Subaru, Tesla, Toyota/Lexus and the Volkswagen Group. Our car audio products feature innovative technologies such as Clari-FiTM, HALOsonicTM and Quantum Logic Surround™. 
Professional Solutions
Our Professional Solutions segment designs, manufactures and markets an extensive range of audio, lighting, video and control, and automation solutions for entertainment and enterprise applications, including live concerts and festivals, stadiums, airports, hotels and resorts, conference centers, educational institutions, command centers and houses of worship. We offer a variety of products, including loudspeakers, amplifiers, digital signal processors, microphones, headphones, mixing consoles, guitar pedals, lighting, video and control, and enterprise automation solutions. Our Professional Solutions audio products are used at important events and in prestigious venues, such as the GRAMMY® Awards, the Emmy® Awards, the Super Bowl®, the Oscars®, the MTV® Video Music Awards, the Country Music Awards® and Yankee Stadium. Our Professional Solutions products are marketed globally under a number of well-established brand names, including AKG, AMX, BSS®, Crown, dbx®, DigiTech®, JBL Professional, Lexicon, Martin, Soundcraft and Studer. 
Connected Services 
Our Connected Services segment includes the operating results of Symphony Teleca Corporation (“STC”), Red Bend Ltd. (“Redbend”), and our automotive services businesses. Our Connected Services segment creates innovative software solutions that integrate design, mobility, cloud and analytics and brings the benefits of the connected world to the automotive, retail, mobile, healthcare, media and consumer electronics markets. Our Connected Services segment offers services and solutions in order to help customers understand and visualize their data so they can make faster and more informed decisions, cloud-enable their businesses, 
3

 
support technical agility and exploit omni-channel strategies. Our Connected Services segment customers include BMW, Daimler, the Volkswagen Group, Jaguar Land Rover, Microsoft, British Telecom and Polycom. 
Other 
Other includes compensation, benefits and occupancy costs for corporate employees, net of reporting segment allocations, expenses associated with new technology innovation and our corporate brand identity campaign. 
Results of Operations 
Our results of operations depend on our sales in the connected car, car audio, consumer audio, professional solutions and connected services industries. Our products and services are sold worldwide, the largest markets of which are the United States and Germany. 
Our Strengths 
World-class brand portfolio 
We believe that our brands and the innovative technologies they represent, many of which Harman pioneered, have helped establish our Company as a leader in the primary markets we serve. We have successfully leveraged our brands across our Connected Car, Lifestyle Audio, Professional Solutions and Connected Services segments to increase awareness and build brand equity to the benefit of all of the markets we serve. 
Innovation and technological expertise 
We believe that innovation is an important element to gaining market acceptance of our products and strengthening our market position. We have a history of leveraging our continuous technological innovation across all of the markets we serve. We have a well-deserved reputation for delivering premium audio and connected car solutions across a full spectrum of applications. We believe that our technological innovation, the quality of our products and our reputation for on-time delivery have resulted in Harman being awarded a substantial amount of Connected Car and Lifestyle Audio automotive business. As of June 30, 2016, we have a cumulative estimated $24.1 billion of awarded Connected Car and Lifestyle Audio automotive business, which represents the estimated future lifetime net sales for all our automotive customers. This amount does not represent firm customer orders. We report our awarded business primarily based on award letters from our customers. To validate these awards, we use various assumptions, including global vehicle production forecasts, customer take rates for our products, revisions to product life-cycle estimates and the impact of annual price reductions and exchange rates, among other factors. The term “take rate” represents the number of units sold by us divided by an estimate of the total number of vehicles of a specific vehicle line produced during the same timeframe. The assumptions we use to validate these awards are updated and reported externally on an annual basis. We believe our awarded automotive business will position us well for follow-on and new business with these existing customers. However, our estimates of awarded automotive business are forward-looking statements and may not actually be achieved. See the risk factor “We may not realize sales represented by awarded business” in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of Part I of this report. 
Seasoned management team with extensive global experience 
Our senior management team possesses substantial experience leading technology-oriented companies, promoting profitable growth through continuous value-added innovation and providing guidance, leadership and cost-discipline through challenging economic conditions. 
Our Growth Strategy 
Continued growth through innovation 
We design and engineer connected products and solutions for automakers, consumers, and enterprises worldwide, including connected car systems, audio and visual products, enterprise automation solutions, and connected services.  Our talented workforce and innovation strength create value for our stakeholders by enabling seamless, connected lifestyles across all platforms.
Our innovative and highly integrated embedded connected car technologies offer automakers the most complete solutions for advanced navigation, intuitive user interfaces, integrated audio, device connectivity, cyber security, and connected safety. We are delivering a dynamic in-car experience for an increasingly connected world.
4

 
We have developed entry-level and mid-range connected car systems that we believe will deliver industry-leading performance at an affordable price that will allow us to penetrate the emerging entry-level and mid-range automotive market.
We have developed advanced solutions for the connected car with our next-generation scalable infotainment platform based on an innovative system architecture that offers rapid development of connected car apps and advanced safety and security features. Our Life-Enhancing Intelligent Vehicle Solution (“LIVS”) compute platform brings together previously discreet or separate connectivity and operational domains under a new, holistic automotive computing platform.  We believe LIVS is the industry’s most complete end-to-end system to provide drivers intelligent, adaptable and personal solutions in the car. 
We are addressing the continued demand for connectivity in the car with advanced telematics platform solutions, as well as secure over-the-air (“OTA”) software management solutions to ensure a variety of vehicle networks and electronic control units are kept up-to-date. 
With over 60 years of deep expertise in acoustic design, tuning and signal processing, we are leading the way in elevating the entire in-cabin listening experience.  Our brands have been introducing important innovations in home entertainment for more than 50 years, and we continue to develop new solutions that best meet consumer needs for more seamless and personalized listening experiences in the home and on-the-go. 
We have developed new car audio technologies which leverage next generation connectivity capabilities. The Summit Car Audio system addresses the growing demand for personalization and adaptability through flexible software solutions. This scalable platform integrates the best of our sound processing and management technologies, such as Quantum Logic Surround SoundTM, Individual Sound Zones (“ISZ”), HALOsonic and Clari-Fi.with new features like Connected Jukebox and Virtual Venues to create a highly personalized in-car audio experience for drivers.  We have also developed, through our GreenEdgeTM initiative, environmentally friendly technologies to reduce power consumption and product weight, a growing area of opportunity for environmentally conscious customers. 
We have developed audio, lighting, video and control and automation solutions for the world’s best entertainment venues, cinemas, recording studios, enterprises and public spaces. Our integrated product suites and go-to-market approach maximizes our reach to address the increasingly inter-connected requirements of the enterprise and entertainment markets.
We are focused on expanding our partnerships with key technology leaders such as Google, Microsoft and Under Armor to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the Internet of Things (“IoT”) for automotive, enterprise and consumer electronics.
We have introduced a cloud-based Service Delivery Platform for the connected car which allows automakers and service providers to introduce and easily deploy new enterprise cloud services to connected vehicles. The new platform facilitates the integration of a variety of enterprise and vehicle-centric applications and services from leading providers. The new platform enables the launch of a variety of services including uploading new software features after vehicle sale, using vehicle data to predict part failures, forecasting for preventative maintenance, and analysis of warranty claims.
Continued growth through acquisitions 
On March 10, 2016 (the “TowerSec Acquisition Date”), Harman Becker Automotive Systems Manufacturing Kft, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired all of the outstanding shares of TowerSec Ltd. (“TowerSec”), a leader in automotive cyber security. TowerSec’s products, featuring intrusion detection and prevention systems, will be integrated into our 5+1 cybersecurity framework, which we believe will position us as the de facto standard for automotive cyber security. The operating results of TowerSec are included in our consolidated financial statements from the TowerSec Acquisition Date within our Connected Car segment. 
 
Continued growth through diversification of our business portfolio
Approximately 65% of our consolidated net sales were to automotive customers with our three most significant customers accounting for approximately 40% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016.  Although we work to maintain and grow our business with our existing portfolio of customers, we also seek to further diversify our customer base as profitable opportunities arise.  Over the years, we have diversified our customer portfolio by expanding the proportion of our business with customers outside of our largest three customers, such as the addition of Ford, GM and Subaru. 
5

 
Expansion into emerging markets 
We believe opportunities exist to grow our business in all of our business segments in emerging markets, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China (“BRIC”). Our BRIC revenue has grown over the last five years, and we expect our market share to continue to grow in the BRIC countries. We have repositioned our research and development and production capabilities and have developed distribution channels to be able to meet the demand for our products in these markets. 
Products 
Connected Car 
We believe that we are a leader in the development and manufacture of high-quality, digitally-integrated connected car systems for automobiles. In recent years, the automotive industry has experienced increased demand for information and entertainment in vehicles. We have developed leading technical competencies to address this demand. In fiscal year 2016, we supplied connected car systems for vehicles manufactured by BMW, Daimler, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Geely, Hyundai, Qoros, Suzuki, TATA Group, Toyota/Lexus, Ssangyong, and the Volkswagen Group. We also produce an infotainment system for Harley-Davidson touring motorcycles. 
Lifestyle Audio
We believe that we are a leader in the development and manufacture of high-quality, high-fidelity, digitally-integrated premium branded car audio systems and components for automobiles. We continue to leverage our expertise in the design and manufacture of premium branded car audio systems and components, as well as our reputation for quality associated with our brand names. As a result of our well-established relationships with automobile manufacturers, our engineers are engaged early in the vehicle design process to develop systems that optimize acoustic performance and minimize weight and space requirements. In fiscal year 2016, we supplied branded car audio systems and components using our portfolio of brand names including Harman/Kardon, Infinity, JBL, JBL Professional, Lexicon, Mark Levinson and Revel for vehicles manufactured by Aston Martin, BMW, Daimler, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Ford, Geely, General Motors, Great Wall, Hyundai, McLaren, PSA Peugeot Citroën, SAIC, Subaru, Tesla, Toyota/Lexus and the Volkswagen Group. We also have rights to use the Bowers & Wilkins, Bang & Olufsen and Canton brand names within the automotive space. 
In the consumer audio market, we manufacture loudspeakers under the Harman/Kardon, Infinity, JBL and Revel brand names. We also offer a broad range of consumer audio electronics under the Harman/Kardon, Lexicon, JBL Synthesis, Mark Levinson and Lexicon brand names. We also sell headphones, embedded audio products for consumer electronics and branded portable wireless speakers under the AKG, JBL, Harman/Kardon and Infinity brand names. 
Professional Solutions
Our Professional Solutions products include audio, lighting, video and control, and enterprise automation solutions that are marketed under what we believe are some of the most respected brand names in the industry including AKG, AMX, BSS, Crown, dbx, DigiTech, JBL Professional, Lexicon, Martin, Soundcraft and Studer.  Our integrated product suites and go-to-market approach maximizes our reach to address the increasingly inter-connected requirements of the enterprise and entertainment markets. The professional market is increasingly moving to digital technology, and we believe that we are a leader in this space. Our Professional Solutions segment derives value from our ability to share research and development, engineering talent, technical expertise and other resources among our business units. Our loudspeakers, amplifiers, digital signal processors, mixing consoles, microphones, headphones, lighting, video and control systems, and enterprise automation solutions all have substantial engineering resources who work together to achieve common goals. 
Connected Services 
Our Connected Services segment creates innovative software solutions that integrate design, mobility, cloud and analytics.  We believe we are a leader in software design and development which includes our end-to-end software engineering, IoT and data analytics services for our customers in the automotive, mobile, and communications and software-enabled businesses. Our software management solutions keep mobile, automotive and IoT devices of all sizes and complexity continuously and reliably relevant with over-the-air software updates, and with virtualization and device management services.
6

 
Manufacturing 
We believe that our manufacturing capabilities are essential to maintaining and improving product quality and performance. Our manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Our facilities have been designed to emphasize worker safety and compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations. 
Our manufacturing facilities for our Connected Car segment are located in Hungary, Mexico, China, India, Brazil and the U.S. These facilities are used to manufacture connected car systems. 
Our manufacturing facilities for our Lifestyle Audio segment are located in Hungary, Mexico, China, India and the U.S. These facilities are used to manufacture our car audio systems. Our Lifestyle Audio segment primarily uses original design manufacturers for the manufacture of our consumer audio products to generate cost efficiencies, deliver products faster and better serve our customers. These manufacturers are primarily based in China. 
Our manufacturing facilities for our Professional Solutions segment are located in Hungary, Mexico, China, Brazil, and the U.S. These facilities are used to manufacture our audio, lighting, video and control, and enterprise automation solutions.
Suppliers 
Although most components essential to our business are generally available from multiple suppliers, a number of components are currently obtained from limited sources. We use rare earth minerals in our products, specifically rare earth neodymium magnets. We also use externally sourced microchips and displays in many of our products. Several independent suppliers manufacture loudspeakers and electronic products for us. 
Distribution Channels 
Connected Car 
We primarily sell our connected car systems directly to automobile manufacturers in the U.S., Europe, Japan, South Korea, China and India, where they are installed as original equipment. 
Lifestyle Audio
We primarily sell our car audio systems directly to automobile manufacturers in the U.S., Europe, India, Japan, China and South Korea, where they are installed as original equipment. In both our foreign and domestic markets, we sell our consumer audio products to dealers who sell directly to the end user and to distributors who resell our products to retailers. We market our products to the consumer who chooses what brand of sound system to purchase for their home or their automobile. Our goal is to make Harman brands the preferred brands in both consumer audio and car audio applications. Our consumer audio products are offered through mass-market retail stores, specialty audio stores, Harman stores, and through online retailers including our website Harmanaudio.com. 
Professional Solutions
In the enterprise market we primarily sell our solutions through third parties, including dealers, consultants, architects and systems integrators in the U.S. and through a distributor network in other countries.  In the entertainment market, we primarily sell our products to dealers via manufacturers’ representatives or through distributors. Both manufacturers’ representatives and distributors have defined geographic regions. We also solicit business directly with end users and offer our products in retail stores or direct to customers over the Internet. 
Connected Services
Our Connected Services segment is a global provider of product and platform engineering services with software development and market analytics services groups located in China, Germany, India, Poland, Russia, Ukraine, and the U.S. Our Connected Services segment revenues are primarily derived from commercial software services, mainly sold via our internal sales force, directly to the customer. 
Trademarks and Patents 
We market our products under numerous brand names that are protected by both pending and registered trademarks around the world. Our trademark registrations cover use of trademark rights in connection with various products, such as loudspeakers, speaker 
7

 
systems, speaker system components and other electrical and electronic devices. We have registered or taken other protective measures for many of these trademarks in substantially all major industrialized countries. As of June 30, 2016, we had 2,424 trademark registrations and 477 pending trademark applications around the world. 
We have a history of innovation and, with more than 3,670 patents and 2,490 pending patent applications at June 30, 2016, covering various audio, connected car and software technologies and products, we continue to take our technology and products into new areas. While we consider our patents on the whole to be important, we do not consider any single patent, any group of related patents or any single license essential to our operations in the aggregate. 
Seasonality 
We experience seasonal fluctuations in sales and earnings. Historically, our first fiscal quarter ending September 30th is generally the weakest due to automotive model year changeovers and the summer holidays in Europe. Sales of our consumer audio products are generally significantly higher in the second quarter of our fiscal year, due to increased demand for these products during the holiday buying season. Our sales and earnings also vary due to the timing of the release of new products, customer acceptance of our products, product offerings by our competitors and general economic conditions. Our video and control and enterprise automation solutions business also experiences seasonality with sales being historically low during the third quarter of our fiscal year. 
Industry Concentration/Key Customers
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, approximately 65 percent of our net sales were to automobile manufacturers. Net sales to BMW, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and the Volkswagen Group accounted for 13 percent, 15 percent and 12 percent, respectively, of our total consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. Accounts receivable, net due from BMW, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and The Volkswagen Group accounted for 9 percent, 17 percent, and 8 percent, respectively, of total consolidated accounts receivable, net at June 30, 2016. Our automotive customers, however, are not contractually obligated to any long-term purchase of our products. For a description of the risks related to our key customers and industry concentration, see “Risk Factors” located in Item 1A of Part I of this report.
Backlog Orders 
We manufacture our connected car and car audio systems on a just-in-time basis. We maintain sufficient inventories of finished goods to promptly meet customer orders for our consumer audio and Professional Solutions customers. As a result, we do not consider the level of backlog to be an important indication of our future performance. Our backlog, which represents firm orders for all our customers, was approximately $197.5 million at June 30, 2016. We expect to deliver these products within the next 12 months. 
Warranty Liabilities 
We warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for periods ranging from six months to six years from the date of purchase, depending on the business segment and product. Our dealers and warranty service providers normally perform warranty service in field locations and regional service centers, using parts and replacement finished goods we supply on an exchange basis. Our dealers and warranty service providers also install updates we provide to correct defects covered by our warranties. Estimated warranty liabilities are based upon past experience with similar types of products, the technological complexity of certain products, replacement cost and other factors. If estimates of warranty provisions are no longer adequate based on our analysis of current activity, incremental provisions are recorded as warranty expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income. We take these factors into consideration when assessing the adequacy of our warranty provision for periods still open to claim. 
Competition 
The industries that we serve are fragmented and competitive and include numerous service providers and manufacturers offering services and products that vary widely in price, quality and distribution methods. 
Connected Car 
In the connected car market, we compete with Alpine, Bosch, Panasonic, Continental, Visteon, Mitsubishi Electronics, Aisin Seiki, Delphi and Denso in the sale of connected car systems to automobile manufacturers. We believe our competitive position is enhanced by our technical expertise in designing and integrating navigation, speech recognition and human-machine interfaces into complete connected car systems uniquely adapted to the specific requirements of each vehicle model. 
8

 
Lifestyle Audio
In the car audio market, we compete with Bose, Pioneer, ASK, Foster Electric, Sony, Lear and Panasonic in the sale of car audio systems to automotive manufacturers. We believe our competitive position is enhanced by our technical expertise in designing and integrating car audio systems uniquely adapted to the specific requirements of each vehicle model. The consumer audio market is characterized by the short life cycle of its products and a need for continuous design and development efforts.  We continue to develop new solutions that best meet consumer needs for more seamless and personalized listening experiences. In the consumer audio and electronics market our principal competitors include Beats, Bose, Sony, Philips, Samsung and Sonos.  We also offer embedded audio products for consumer electronics where our principal competitors are Creative Labs, Altec Lansing, Logitech, Klipsch and Cyber Acoustics.
Professional Solutions
The market for professional sound systems is highly competitive. We believe that we have historically held a leading market position in the professional loudspeaker market and complemented our professional loudspeaker line by adding digital professional electronic products, lighting solutions, video and control, and enterprise automation solutions. We compete by using our ability to provide complete system solutions to meet all of the audio requirements of our professional customers. 
Our principal competitors in the entertainment market include Electro Voice, QSC, Meyer Sound Laboratories, Sennheiser, Peavey, Shure, Audio Technica, Yamaha, Loud Technologies, Inc., Lawo, DigiDesign/M-Audio and Sony. Our principal competitors in the enterprise market include Siemens, Tannoy, Clay Paky, Robe Lighting, Lawo, Stagetec, Telex, Extron and Crestron. 
Connected Services 
In our Connected Services segment, we compete with a wide range of global and regionally-based companies such as Tata Consultancy Services Limited, Cognizant Technology Solutions, the Aricent Group and WiPro Limited. The specific nature of who we compete with depends on the market segment being served and the specific customer requirements. We believe our market standing and competitive advantages are anchored in our unique combination of cloud, mobility and analytics solutions which help businesses accelerate the transformation to the connected world. Our global team of engineers enables companies to create new digital business models, enter new markets, enhance customer experiences and become more responsive companies. We believe our competitive position is enhanced by our combination of design, device and data through a set of software capabilities and value-added services making the connected car, home, lifestyle and enterprise a reality.
Environmental Regulation 
We are subject to various Federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the manufacture, import, use, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, labeling and notice requirements related to potential consumer exposure to certain chemicals and, increasingly, energy efficiency rules and requirements for the recycling of our products and their packaging. 
In Europe, we are subject to the European Union’s (“EU”) Directive on the Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronics Equipment (“EU RoHS”). This directive restricts the placement into the EU market of electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous materials, including lead, mercury, cadmium and chromium. We are also subject to the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, the EU Packaging Directive and the EU Battery Directive, which require producers of electrical goods, packaging and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. 
We are also subject to the EU’s Directive on Energy-related Products (the “ErP Directive”), which aims to encourage manufacturers and importers to produce products designed to minimize overall environmental impact. Under the ErP Directive, manufacturers must ensure that their energy-related products comply with applicable requirements, issue a declaration of conformity and mark the product with the ‘CE’ mark. The ErP Directive does not have binding requirements for specific products, but does define conditions and criteria for setting, through subsequent implementing measures, requirements regarding environmentally relevant product characteristics.  We believe that our products are in substantial compliance with the applicable requirements. Similar requirements exist in the four member states of the European Free Trade Association (Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland). Such requirements are substantially met by compliance with the ErP Directive. We continue to modify the design and energy-use profiles of our products as needed to comply with applicable laws and regulations. 
The EU has also enacted the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”) regulation. REACH requires manufacturers and importers of articles to register the substances contained in the articles if the substances are 
9

 
intended to be released under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions of use. Because the substances contained in our products are not intended to be released under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, we do not believe we or the importers of our products have an obligation under REACH to register those substances under the EU’s current interpretation of the Directive.
In the United States, certain substances used in the manufacture or design of our products are subject to regulation under the federal Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) as well as state chemical control and disclosure laws. In June 2016, TSCA was amended to give federal regulators greater authority to impose testing and use restrictions on substances and materials that enter U.S. commerce. While the law contains specific exemptions for substances in articles that are not expected to pose exposure hazards, federal interpretation and implementation of this new law could affect our ability, or our suppliers’ ability, to obtain or use chemicals and materials needed for our products. We are also subject to California’s Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act (also known as Proposition 65 or “Prop 65”), which requires that clear and reasonable warnings be given individuals (including consumers) who are exposed to certain chemicals deemed by the state of California to be dangerous.
Additionally, the U.S. Department of Energy has promulgated a regulation pertaining to external power supplies and compliance with the energy efficiency standards that were established under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. We will address these requirements as necessary. We are also subject to laws in various Canadian provinces and U.S. states that impose fees to cover the cost of end of life responsible disposal and recycling of packaging, products and batteries. These laws require producers of electrical goods, packaging and batteries to be financially responsible for costs of specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of covered products. Our products may also become subject to further energy efficiency requirements if and when required under U.S. climate change legislation. 
In China, we are subject to China’s law on Management Methods on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products (“China RoHS”), which is substantially similar to the EU RoHS. The China RoHS requires the disclosure and marking of certain substances, including lead, mercury, cadmium and chromium in certain electronic products. 
We believe that our facilities and products are in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations. We expect further laws similar to the EU RoHS and China RoHS, and those governing product and packaging recycling, to be introduced in other jurisdictions, many or most of which could impose additional costs, including fees to cover recycling costs. The need for and cost of our compliance with such legislation cannot yet be determined but it could be substantial. 
Research and Development 
We believe that continued investment in product research and development is critical to our success. Net expenditures for research and development were $433.1 million, $380.2 million and $343.8 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to research and development to sustain our competitive position. 
Number of Employees 
At June 30, 2016, we had approximately 26,000 full-time employees, including approximately 7,300 employees located in North America and approximately 18,700 employees located outside of North America. 
Foreign Operations 
Information about our foreign operations is set forth in Note 18—Business Segment Data in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements located in Item 8 of Part II of this report. 
Corporate Information 
We were incorporated in the state of Delaware in 1980. Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Atlantic Street, Suite 1500, Stamford, Connecticut 06901. Our telephone number is (203) 328-3500. 
Subsequent Events 
Dividend Declaration 
On August 4, 2016, we declared a cash dividend of $0.35 per share for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. The quarterly dividend will be paid on August 29, 2016 to each stockholder of record as of the close of business on August 15, 2016. 
10

 
Website Information 
Our corporate website is located at www.harman.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under “SEC Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our website also provides access to reports filed by our directors, executive officers and certain significant stockholders pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Codes of Ethics and Business Conduct, and the charters for the four committees of our Board of Directors are available on our website. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. In addition, the SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. 




Item 1A.

Risk Factors 
In addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below. 
We may not realize sales represented by awarded business. 
Our current estimate of $24.1 billion of awarded business at June 30, 2016 in our Connected Car and Lifestyle Audio segments is calculated using certain assumptions from our customers, including projected future sales volumes and take rates with respect to the applicable platforms. Orders from our customers with respect to these platforms are not made pursuant to contractual obligations and our customers can terminate arrangements with us at any time without penalty. Therefore, our actual platform sales volumes, and thus the ultimate amount of revenue that we derive from such platforms, are not committed. If actual production orders from our customers are not consistent with the projections we use in calculating the amount of our awarded business, we could realize substantially less revenue and profit over the life of these projects than the currently projected estimate. 
Failure to maintain relationships with our largest customers and failure by our customers to continue to purchase expected quantities of our products would have an adverse effect on our operations. 
We anticipate that our automotive customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future.  Our three largest automotive customers accounted for 40 percent of our consolidated net sales for fiscal year 2016. However, none of our automotive customers is obligated to any long-term purchases of our products.  For example, although sales to Fiat Chrysler Automobiles accounted for approximately 15 percent of our consolidated net sales for fiscal year 2016, sales to Fiat Chrysler Automobiles may decline to under 10 percent of our consolidated net sales by fiscal year 2018 due to changes in their sourcing strategies.  While we have taken in recent years, and will continue to take, steps to diversify our awarded business to include new automotive customers in an effort to reduce our exposure to significant customer risk, there is no assurance that we will be successful. If we do not succeed in diversifying our automotive customer base, the loss of sales to any of our significant automotive customers would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net sales, results of operations and financial condition. 
The demand for our connected car products may be eroded by replacement technologies becoming available on portable devices, such as mobile handsets and tablets, and other disruptive technological developments. 
Sales of our connected car products represented approximately 45 percent of our net sales in fiscal year 2016. GPS/navigation technologies have been incorporated into portable devices, such as mobile handsets and tablets, and many companies offer navigation software for such devices. If automakers choose to replace embedded infotainment systems with portable devices, or other disruptive technologies, the acceptance of an alternative technology by consumers may negatively impact the demand for our connected car products. If we do not continue to innovate to develop or acquire new and compelling products that capitalize upon new technologies, this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  
 
Pricing pressure from our customers in the automotive industry could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 
 
Downward pricing pressures by automobile manufacturers is a characteristic of the automotive industry. Virtually all automakers have implemented aggressive price reduction initiatives and objectives each year with their suppliers, and such actions are expected to continue in the future. For example, our customer supply agreements generally provide for annual reductions in pricing (“APRs”) of our products over the period of production.  Accordingly, suppliers must be able to reduce their operating costs in order to maintain profitability. While we have taken steps to reduce our operating costs and otherwise offset APRs, price reductions have impacted our sales and are expected to continue to do so in the future. If we are unable to offset APRs in the future through improved 
11

 
operating efficiencies, new manufacturing processes, sourcing alternatives and other cost reduction initiatives, our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 
We have significant operations in Europe which may be adversely impacted by the continued economic challenges in Europe, including the impact of the referendum in the United Kingdom (“U.K”) approving the exit of the U.K. from the European Union. 
The global economic recession that began in 2008 resulted in significantly lower demand and decreased profitability across all of our segments and major markets. While North America and Asia have shown an improved, but somewhat uneven recovery, Europe remains stagnant with continued economic and financial challenges. Recent events in Europe, including the approval of the exit of the U.K. from the European Union, have elevated concerns that macroeconomic conditions will worsen and economic recovery will be delayed. If weak economic conditions persist or worsen, there could be a number of negative effects on our business, including our customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of one or more of our key suppliers, which could result in production delays, and our customers being unable to obtain credit. Approximately 44 percent of our net sales in fiscal year 2016 were made to our customers in Europe, five percent of which represents sales to our customers in the U.K. Should conditions worsen in these markets, customer demand for our products may deteriorate which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 
 
A significant portion of our sales are denominated in Euros, which sales may be adversely impacted by the eurozone crisis and the U.K.’s exit from the European Union. 
Approximately 38 percent of our net sales in fiscal year 2016 were denominated in Euros, five percent of which represents sales in the U.K. Certain eurozone countries in which we operate have received financial aid packages from the European Union in the form of loans and restructuring of their sovereign debt and have introduced comprehensive fiscal austerity measures.  It is unknown at this time what the relationship of the U.K. with the European Union will be following the implementation of the U.K.’s exit from the European Union, the long-term impact to the Euro currency as a result, or whether other countries in the eurozone may also seek to voluntarily approve an exit from the European Union.  If dissolution and replacement of the Euro currency and the potential reintroduction of individual European Union currencies should occur as a result of the continued eurozone crisis, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could expose us to increased foreign exchange risk. 
The loss of business with respect to, or the lack of commercial success of, a vehicle model for which we are a supplier could adversely affect our financial performance. 
Although we receive award letters or contracts from our automotive customers, these award letters or contracts generally provide for the supply of a customer’s requirements for a particular vehicle model, rather than for the purchase of a specific quantity of products. In addition, new program launches require a significant ramp up of costs; however, the sales related to these new programs generally are dependent upon the timing and success of the introduction of new vehicles by our automotive customers. The loss of business with respect to, or the lack of commercial success of, a vehicle model for which we are a supplier could reduce our sales and thereby adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 
Strategic decisions by our automotive customers to expand dual sourcing arrangements could have an adverse effect on our operations. 
Automakers customarily maintain dual sourcing arrangements and we cannot assure you that our customers will not further expand dual sourcing arrangements in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net sales, results of operations and financial condition. 
The in-sourcing of the integration of connected car and car audio systems by our automotive customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
A significant portion of revenue from our automotive customers depends on such customers utilizing our services for the integration of various components comprising connected car or car audio systems into the vehicles they manufacture. The in-sourcing of the integration of connected car and car audio systems by our automotive customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
Failure to deliver products on time to our automotive customers could adversely affect our financial results. 
In connection with the award of new business for an automotive customer, we often obligate ourselves to deliver new products and services that are subject to the customer’s timing. Additionally, as a Tier 1 supplier, we must effectively coordinate the activities of numerous suppliers in order to launch programs successfully. We have products in various stages of development for our automotive customers. If we do not complete our development efforts and coordinate the activities of numerous suppliers in time to 
12

 
meet our customers’ vehicle production requirements, we could be subject to monetary penalties and damage our customer relationships, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net sales, results of operations and financial condition. 
The financial distress or bankruptcy of a significant automotive customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016, approximately 65 percent of our net sales were to automobile manufacturers. As a result, our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the automotive industry, which is highly dependent on general economic conditions and periodically has experienced significant difficulty. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, reductions in orders from our original equipment manufacturer customers.  If one or more of our significant automotive customers experiences increased financial difficulty, including bankruptcy, as a result of a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, this would have an adverse effect on our business due to decreased demand for our products, the potential inability of these companies to make full payment on amounts owed to us, or both. As part of the bankruptcy process, our pre-petition receivables may not be realized, customer manufacturing sites may be closed or contracts voided. The bankruptcy of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  
We may lose market share if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. 
We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards and changes in customer requirements, and are characterized by intense price competition. Some of our existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, financial, technical and other resources greater than ours. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete effectively against existing or new competitors that may enter our markets or that certain of our products will not become obsolete due to technological developments. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 
If we do not continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products, our sales may decrease. 
The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. In order to increase sales in current markets and gain entry into new markets, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to maintain and improve existing products, while successfully developing and introducing distinctive new and enhanced products that anticipate changing consumer preferences and capitalize upon emerging technologies.  We may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction or market acceptance of new or enhanced products. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely launch of new products. Also, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed. The timely availability of these products is important to our future success. Furthermore, we may need to license or acquire new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses or acquisitions may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. Even after introduction, our new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. As a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance and our brand image could suffer.  Any future challenges related to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  
A decrease in consumer discretionary spending would likely reduce our sales. 
Our sales are dependent on discretionary spending by consumers, which could be materially adversely impacted by economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income and retail sales. In addition, our sales of audio, electronic and connected car products to automotive customers are dependent on the overall success of the automotive industry, and of premium automobiles in particular, as well as the willingness of automobile purchasers to pay for the option of a premium branded car audio system or a multi-function digital connected car system. Global demand for, and production of, premium vehicles, including certain vehicle models that incorporate our products, could decline in a difficult economic environment. This decline could have a negative impact on our results of operations.  
The macroeconomic environment may adversely affect consumer spending patterns and the availability and cost of credit. 
Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions. Disruptions in the financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit in the future. The historical disruptions in the financial markets that occurred within the past eight years, coupled with uncertainty created as a result of the U.K.’s exit from the European Union, have had and will 
13

 
continue to have an adverse effect on the global economy, which has  and will continue to negatively impact consumer spending patterns. This may result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. 
Sophisticated and targeted cyber crime could pose a risk to the security of our products and services.
Sophisticated and targeted cyber crime could pose a risk to the security of our products and services. We may incur significant costs related to the threat of, and to address any damages caused by, unauthorized access to or intentional malfunctions in our products, including but not limited to, costs to protect our products and address defective products, costs or penalties related to regulatory investigations and litigation costs. Our reputation and brand names could be materially damaged by the threat or perpetration of cyber crime and the sales of our products and services may decrease, which in turn could adversely affect our competitive position, relationships with our customers, financial condition and results of operations. 
Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services. 
In connection with our services and as we develop new products, we may gain access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of personal information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs. 
 
Warranty claims, product liability claims and product recalls could adversely affect our financial results. 
We warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for periods ranging from six months to six years. We also face the inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products fail to perform as expected and such failure results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage (or both). In addition, if any of our designed products are defective or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall campaign. Warranty claims in excess of our estimates, a successful product liability claim or a requirement that we participate in a product recall campaign may adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. 
 
A disruption in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business and financial performance.
We rely on the accuracy, capacity and security of our information technology systems. Despite our efforts to protect data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, including our intellectual property or trade secrets, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, production downtimes and operational disruptions. To the extent that our business is interrupted or data is lost, destroyed or inappropriately used or disclosed, such disruptions could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, relationships with our customers, financial condition and results of operations.
We have invested substantial resources in markets where we expect growth and we may be unable to timely alter our strategies should such expectations not be realized. 
Our future growth is dependent on our making the right investments at the right time to support product development and manufacturing capacity in areas where we can support our customer base. We have identified certain regions, including China, Brazil, Russia and India, as key markets likely to experience substantial growth, and accordingly have made and expect to continue to make substantial investments, both directly and through participation in partnerships and joint ventures, in manufacturing operations, technical centers and other infrastructure to support anticipated growth in these regions. If we are unable to deepen existing and develop additional customer relationships in these regions, we may not only fail to realize expected rates of return on our existing investments, but we may incur losses on such investments and be unable to timely redeploy the invested capital to take advantage of 
14

 
other markets, potentially resulting in lost market share to our competitors. Our results of operations and financial condition will also suffer if these regions do not grow as quickly as we anticipate. 
Our cash flow and ability to service debt is dependent, in part, upon distributions from our subsidiaries. 
Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is dependent, in part, upon the operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of those earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by those subsidiaries to Harman International Industries, Incorporated, all of which could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings and are subject to various business considerations, including tax consequences. 
Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the succession of senior management. 
Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key people, our future operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, including our chief executive officer, our business may be materially adversely affected. While we follow a disciplined, ongoing succession planning process and have succession plans in place for senior management and other key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of qualified senior executives will continue to be available to us at particular moments in time. 
Natural disasters, geo-political events and the failure of our information technology and communication systems could adversely affect our financial performance. 
The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, floods, earthquakes and tsunamis, geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks, or power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm our systems, in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of our customers to reach or have transportation to our channel partners directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which channel partners are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers’ disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of materials and products from our local and overseas suppliers, the disruption or delay in the transport or delivery of goods from overseas to our facilities or to our channel partners, the disruption of utility services to our facilities, the disruption of our information technology, including databases containing sensitive information, and disruption in our communications with our facilities customers and suppliers. If we failed to implement and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program and any of the foregoing events occurs, such events and their impacts could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net sales, results of operations and financial condition. 
We depend on our suppliers for key production materials and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. 
Many of our suppliers have in the past, and could in the future decrease their manufacturing capacity and inventory levels. If these steps are taken by our suppliers, it could make us more vulnerable to disruptions in the supply chain. In the near term, an increase in our demand for parts may place an undue strain on our suppliers. Additionally, the supply of raw materials including, without limitation, petroleum, copper, steel, aluminum, synthetic resins, rare metals and rare earth minerals, such as neodymium used in the production of loudspeakers, has been and could continue to be significantly constrained, which is likely to result in continued elevated price levels. Furthermore, our continued compliance with the SEC’s annual disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As a result of any of these disruptions, we may not be able to obtain the materials necessary to manufacture our products, which could force us to cease production or search for alternative supply sources, possibly at a higher cost, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our implementation of a sufficient brand protection program. 
Our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands, and our customers’ connection to our brands. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may relate to our growth strategies, our development efforts in domestic and foreign markets, or the ordinary course of our business. Other incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control and may damage our brands, such as counterfeit and knock-off products, litigation and claims, and 
15

 
illegal activity targeted at us or others. Consumer demand for our products and our brands’ value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, and if we do not implement a brand protection program that sufficiently addresses the issue of counterfeit and knock-off products, among other things, either of which would likely result in lower net sales and, ultimately, lower income, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual property rights, our business may decline. 
Our future success will depend, in substantial part, on our intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights, but our actions may not adequately protect the rights covered by our patents, patent applications, trademarks, trademark applications and other proprietary rights, and prosecution of our claims could be time consuming and costly. In addition, the intellectual property laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary information, third parties may obtain, disclose or use our proprietary information without our authorization, which could adversely affect our business. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe their proprietary rights. These claims or similar future claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, limit our ability to use infringing intellectual property or force us to license third-party technology rather than dispute the merits of any infringement claim. Even if we prevail, any associated litigation could be time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of our time and resources. 
 
We may be adversely affected by future laws or regulations. 
We are subject to various U.S. Federal, state and local, and non-U.S. laws and regulations. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulations, or the application thereof. The introduction of new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the interpretations thereof, could increase the cost of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers or restrict our actions and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A recent example of such changing regulation is the adoption by the SEC of annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those SEC reporting companies who manufacture or contract to manufacture products that contain conflict minerals, and such minerals are necessary to the production or functionality of such product. There are historical and continued future costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such diligence activities. 
We are engaged in ongoing litigation and may be the subject of additional litigation that may result in payments to third parties, which could harm our business and financial results. 
We are currently involved in litigation arising out of or relating to the events leading up to the termination of the proposed acquisition of our Company in October 2007 and certain earnings guidance provided by us. In addition, similar litigation has been and may be initiated against us and others based on the alleged activities and disclosures at issue in the pending litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of any such proceeding or the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could harm our business or cash flows or financial results. Furthermore, regardless of the merits of any claim, the continued maintenance of these legal proceedings may result in substantial legal expense and could also result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from our business. 
Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. 
A significant amount of our assets and operations are located, and the majority of our revenue is derived from, sales outside the United States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the Euro. Translation losses or a decrease in foreign sales of our products sold in United States dollars, each resulting from currency fluctuations, may adversely affect the profits from our foreign operations and have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, we purchase certain foreign-made products. Although we hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure and, due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions partially offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our cost of purchasing these products could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. 
 
16

 
Covenants in our existing debt agreements limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions. 
Our existing debt agreements contain provisions that limit our operating and financing activities. Our credit agreement contains certain negative covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to permit certain of our subsidiaries to incur debt and the ability of us and our subsidiaries to incur liens, make fundamental changes (including selling all or substantially all of our assets), undertake transactions with affiliates and undertake sale and leaseback transactions. Our indentures contain covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, limit our ability to incur indebtedness secured by principal properties, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal properties and enter into certain mergers, consolidations and transfers of all or substantially all of the assets of our Company. In addition, our credit agreement contains more restrictive financial covenants that require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. We may have to curtail some of our operations to maintain compliance with the covenants in our existing debt agreements. A violation of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt agreements, which could permit the lenders to accelerate the repayment of any borrowings outstanding and/or the holders of the notes to direct the trustee to accelerate repayment of amounts outstanding under the notes. A default or acceleration under our debt agreements would result in increased capital costs and could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations and financial condition. 
Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and we may be unable to integrate such acquisitions effectively, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Acquisitions are an important element of our corporate growth strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas of risk we face include, but are not limited to, difficulties in the integration of the acquired businesses, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the assumption of unknown liabilities, undisclosed risks impacting the target and potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with our current customers and suppliers. In addition, our recent acquisitions have resulted in the incurrence of a significant amount of debt. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, impairment of goodwill or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could be material in amount and harm our financial condition or results. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we have recently undertaken or will undertake in the future or that such acquisitions will perform as planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flows. Any such failure could materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Our operations could be harmed by factors including political instability and changes in regulations that govern international transactions. 
The risks inherent in international trade may reduce our international sales and harm our business and the businesses of our distributors and suppliers. These risks include: 




 

·

changes in tariff regulations; 




 

·

political instability, war, terrorism and other political risks; 




 

·

establishing and maintaining relationships with local distributors and dealers; 




 

·

lengthy shipping times and accounts receivable payment cycles; 




 

·

import and export licensing requirements; 




 

·

compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and regulatory requirements; 




 

·

greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property rights than in the United States; and 




 

·

difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations. 
These and other risks may, among other things, increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products. 
17

 
 Our business could be adversely affected by a strike or work stoppage at one of our manufacturing plants or at a facility of one of our significant customers or at a common carrier or major shipping location. 
Workers at certain of our facilities and those of our automotive customers are unionized and may incur work stoppages or strikes. A work stoppage at our facilities or those of our automotive customers, or at a common carrier or major shipping location, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. The risk of issues of this type at our facilities may be exacerbated by the implementation of our current or future cost reduction initiatives, which may involve significant staff reductions and facility relocations. 
We have deferred tax assets in our consolidated financial statements. 
Our consolidated financial statements include net deferred tax assets of $108.1 million as of June 30, 2016, which relate to temporary differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income. The valuation of deferred tax assets is based on various projections for future taxable income reversing taxable temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Thus, when actual taxable income differs from projections, it may become necessary to adjust the valuation of our deferred tax assets, which would impact our results of operations and financial condition. 
 
Impairment charges relating to our goodwill and long-lived assets could adversely affect our financial performance. 
 
We regularly monitor our goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment indicators. We perform either a qualitative or quantitative assessment of goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis. In conducting the impairment analysis of long-lived assets, we compare the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets to the related net book values. Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets. In the event that we determine that our goodwill or long-lived assets are impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the period(s) recognized. 
 




Item 1B