Item 1A of Part I of this
report.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          ii
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Part
I
    
    Item 1.  Business
     
    We
believe we are a worldwide leader in the development, manufacture and marketing
of high-quality, high fidelity audio products and electronic systems. We have
developed, both internally and through a series of strategic acquisitions, a
broad range of product offerings sold under renowned brand names in our
principal markets. We also believe that we are a leader in digitally integrated
infotainment systems for the automotive industry.  Our JBL, Infinity,
Harman/Kardon, Mark Levinson and Becker brand names are well known worldwide for
premium quality and performance. We have built these brands by developing our
engineering, manufacturing and marketing competences and have employed these
resources to establish our Company as a worldwide leader in the markets we
serve.
     
    We report
our business on the basis of three segments: Automotive, Consumer and
Professional. For additional information about these segments, see Managements Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of
Part II of this report and Note 17, Business Segment Data, to our
consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of Part II of this
report.
     
    Our
Automotive segment designs, manufactures and markets audio, electronic and
infotainment systems for vehicle applications primarily to be installed as
original equipment by automotive manufacturers. Our automotive products are
marketed worldwide under brand names including JBL, Infinity, Mark Levinson,
Harman/Kardon, Logic 7, Lexicon and Becker. Through engineering and supply
arrangements, our premium audio systems and infotainment product offerings are
sold to a number of global automotive manufacturers including Daimler, the BMW
Group, Toyota/Lexus, Audi/VW, Chrysler, Porsche, Land Rover, Hyundai, and PSA
Peugeot Citron. We also produce a Harman/Kardon branded infotainment system for
Harley-Davidson touring motorcycles. Our infotainment systems are a combination
of information and entertainment components that may include or control GPS
navigation, traffic information, voice-activated telephone and climate control,
rear seat entertainment, wireless Internet access, hard disk recording, MP3
playback and a high-end branded audio system.  Our Automotive segment
also produces personal navigation devices (PNDs) that are primarily sold in
Europe.
     
    Our
Consumer segment designs, manufactures and markets audio and electronic systems
for home, mobile and multimedia applications. Our Consumer home products and
systems are marketed worldwide under brand names including JBL, Infinity,
Harman/Kardon, Lexicon, Mark Levinson, Revel and AKG. Our audio and electronic
systems are recognized throughout the world for superior sound quality and high
performance. Our home product applications include systems to provide
high-quality audio throughout the home and our mobile products include an array
of aftermarket systems to deliver audio entertainment and navigation in the
vehicle. Our home and mobile audio and electronic products are offered primarily
through audio/video specialty stores and retail chain stores such as Best Buy,
MediaMarkt and Fnac.  Our branded audio products for multimedia
applications are primarily designed to enhance sound for Apples iPods and
iPhones, computers and other MP3 players and are sold in retail stores such as
the Apple stores, Best Buy, Target and MediaMarkt.
     
    Our
Professional segment designs, manufactures and markets loudspeakers and
electronic systems used by audio professionals in concert halls, stadiums,
airports, houses of worship and other public spaces. We also design products for
recording, broadcast, cinema and music reproduction applications, and we provide
high-quality products to the sound reinforcement, music instrument support and
broadcast and recording segments of the professional audio
market.  Our Professional products are marketed worldwide under brand
names including JBL Professional, AKG, Crown, Soundcraft, Lexicon, DigiTech, dbx
and Studer.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          1
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    We offer
complete systems solutions for professional installations and users around the
world. Our products can be linked by our HiQnetTM network
protocol providing a central digital network for audio professionals to control
different aspects of a complex system.  We believe that we are
uniquely equipped to provide turnkey systems solutions for professional audio
applications that offer the customer improved performance, reliability, ease of
installation and reduced cost.
     
    Our
results of operations depend on our sales of audio products and electronic
systems in the automotive, consumer and professional markets. Our products are
sold worldwide, with the largest markets being the United States and Germany. A
significant portion of our net sales are denominated in Euros.
     
    We
believe growth opportunities continue to exist with automotive manufacturers
through an increase in the number of models offering our audio, navigation and
infotainment systems, supply agreements with additional automakers, increases in
per-vehicle content through the provision of integrated infotainment and premium
branded audio systems, higher penetration levels of audio and infotainment
systems within existing models and providing systems that will include
additional functionality such as driver assist safety measures. We believe
growth opportunities exist in the consumer electronics market due to expansion
in emerging markets, such as China, India and Russia, and through opportunities
to leverage brand strength in growing categories in home
installations.  We also believe growth opportunities exist in the
professional markets as we expect our HiQnet system protocol to allow us to
capitalize on these opportunities as this technology simplifies the interaction
of our products and provides users with an incentive to purchase complete HiQnet
compatible systems.
     
    Harman
International Industries, Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in
1980.
     
    Products
     
    Automotive
     
    We
believe that we are a leader in developing and manufacturing high-quality, high
fidelity, digitally-integrated infotainment systems and premium branded audio
systems for automobiles.
     
    The
automotive market is currently experiencing strong demand for information and
entertainment in the car. We have developed leading technical competencies to
address this demand. Our infotainment systems are a combination of information
and entertainment components that may include or control GPS navigation, traffic
information, voice-activated telephone and climate control, rear seat
entertainment, wireless Internet access, hard disk recording, MP3 playback and a
high-end branded audio system.  In fiscal 2008, we supplied
infotainment systems for vehicles manufactured by Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Porsche,
Audi, Hyundai, Chrysler and SsangYong Motor.  Our business objective
is to maintain our leadership position in the infotainment
business.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          2
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    We
continue to leverage our expertise in the design and manufacture of premium
branded audio systems, as well as the reputation for quality associated with our
JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon, Mark Levinson and Lexicon brand names. As a result
of our well-established relationships with automobile manufacturers, our
engineers are engaged early in the vehicle design process to develop systems
that optimize acoustic performance and minimize weight and space requirements.
Our Infinity branded car audio systems are offered by
Chrysler.  Daimlers Mercedes-Benz division, the BMW Group, Land Rover,
Porsche, GM and Saab provide Harman/Kardon branded audio systems in their
vehicles. Our premium Mark Levinson digital audio system is offered by
Lexus.  Lexicon branded audio systems are standard on Rolls Royce
vehicles and offered as an option on Hyundais new Genesis
sedan.  Toyota and PSA Peugeot Citron offer our JBL branded audio
systems.  Hyundai Motor Company and Kia Motor Company also offer our
JBL and Infinity branded audio systems in the Korean and United States markets,
respectively.
     
    In the
future, we expect our infotainment systems will also provide driver assist
capabilities such as pre-crash emergency braking, full speed adaptive cruise
control, sleep guarding, lane departure warnings and night vision.
     
    Consumer
     
    We
manufacture loudspeakers under the JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon and Revel brand
names for the consumer home audio market. These loudspeaker lines include models
designed for two-channel stereo and multi-channel surround sound applications
for the home and in a wide range of performance choices, including floor
standing, bookshelf, powered, low frequency, in-wall, wireless and all-weather
as well as in styles and finishes ranging from high gloss lacquers to genuine
wood veneers. The JBL and Infinity product lines also include car loudspeakers,
amplifiers and subwoofers sold in the aftermarket as well as marine speakers
intended for use on boats.
     
    We also
offer a broad range of consumer audio electronics under the Harman/Kardon, Mark
Levinson and Lexicon brand names. Our Harman/Kardon home electronics line
includes audio/video receivers featuring Logic 7, Dolby Digital and DTS surround
sound processing capabilities and multi-channel amplifiers, DVD players and CD
players. We design high-end electronics, including amplifiers, digital signal
processors, compact disc players and transports and surround sound processors
that we market under the renowned Mark Levinson brand. We believe that we are a
leader in the design and manufacture of high-quality home theater surround sound
processors and amplifiers under the Lexicon name. Lexicon was a pioneer in the
development of digital signal processors for the professional audio
market.  We have successfully leveraged Lexicons professional audio
expertise to produce premier consumer products.
     
    In the
multimedia market, we offer branded iPod docking devices such as JBL On
Stage TM
, JBL Onstage TM Micro,
JBL Radial
TM, Harman/Kardon Go +Play TM, and
PC related devices such as JBL Creature TM II,
JBL Duet
TM, and Harman/Kardon Soundsticks II.  We also offer a variety
of headphone devices.  Our products add greater functionality for
computers and the Apple iPod, iPhone and
other MP3 players.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          3
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Professional
     
    Our
Professional products include loudspeakers and electronic equipment that are
marketed under what we believe are some of the most respected brand names in the
industry, including JBL Professional, Crown, Soundcraft, Lexicon, DigiTech, AKG,
BSS, dbx and Studer.
     
    The
Professional market is increasingly moving to digital technology. We believe
that we are a leader in this market. Our Professional segment derives value from
our ability to share research and development, engineering talent and other
digital resources among its business units. Soundcraft, Studer, Crown, Lexicon,
DigiTech, dbx and BSS each have substantial digital engineering resources and
work together to achieve common goals by sharing resources and technical
expertise.
     
    Our
Professional loudspeakers are well known for high-quality and superior sound.
JBL Professional branded products include studio monitors, loudspeaker systems,
powered loudspeakers, sound reinforcement systems, cinema systems, surround
sound systems and industrial loudspeakers.
     
    Our
Professional electronic products are recognized for high quality and
reliability. We market these products on a worldwide basis under various trade
names, including Crown, Soundcraft, Lexicon, DigiTech, AKG, BSS, dbx and Studer.
These products are often sold in conjunction with our JBL Professional
loudspeakers and certain products, such as Crown amplifiers, are integrated into
JBL loudspeakers.
     
    We
produce sound mixing consoles ranging from automated multi-track consoles for
professional recording studios to compact professional mixers for personal
recording, home studios and sound reinforcement. Our consoles are sold to four
main market areas: sound reinforcement, recording studios, broadcast studios and
musical instrument dealers. Our mixing consoles are sold primarily under the
Soundcraft and Studer brands. We produce many types of signal processing
products, equalizers, and special effects devices that are used in live sound
applications and in recording studios to produce sound effects and refine final
mixes. These products are sold under the Lexicon, DigiTech, dbx and BSS brand
names.
     
    We
produce microphones, audio headphones, surround-sound headphones and other
professional audio products, which are marketed under the AKG brand
name.
     
    We also
produce professional amplifiers and powered loudspeakers under the Crown and JBL
brand names. We believe the integration of loudspeakers and electronics enhances
our ability to provide complete
systems solutions to the professional audio market. Our other professional
products include switching systems, digital audio workstations and turnkey
broadcasting studio installations marketed primarily under the Studer brand
name.
     
    With our
HiQnet network protocol we can configure, connect and control a complete
professional sound system from microphone to speaker on one unified digital
network. This system provides enhanced productivity and facilitates real-time
problem diagnosis and correction from a central location.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          4
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Manufacturing
     
    We
believe that our manufacturing capabilities are essential to maintaining and
improving product quality and performance. Our manufacturing facilities are
located in North America, Europe and Asia.
     
    Our
Automotive manufacturing facilities in Europe are located in Germany, the United
Kingdom, Sweden, France and Hungary.  Our European facilities are
primarily used to manufacture infotainment systems and automotive navigation and
audio systems. In North America, we manufacture loudspeakers in Kentucky and
Mexico and manufacture electronics in California, Kentucky and
Missouri.  In addition, we are ramping up a new facility in Suzhou,
China where we began production of amplifiers and loudspeakers in June
2008.
     
    Our
Consumer manufacturing facilities are located in California, Mexico and China.
Our loudspeaker manufacturing capabilities include the production of high-gloss
lacquer and wooden veneer loudspeaker enclosures, wire milling, voice coil
winding and the use of computer controlled lathes and other machine tools to
produce precision components.
     
    In North
America, our principal Professional manufacturing facilities for loudspeakers
are located in California and Mexico, and for electronic products, including
amplifiers and effects devices, are located in Utah and Indiana. European
Professional electronics manufacturing includes mixing consoles in the United
Kingdom and Switzerland, and microphones and headphones in Austria.
     
    Our
facilities have been designed to emphasize worker safety and compliance with
environmental and safety regulations.
     
    Suppliers
     
    We use
externally sourced microchips in many of our products. A significant disruption
in our microchip supply chain and an inability to obtain alternative sources
would have a material impact on our consolidated results of
operations.
     
    Several
independent suppliers manufacture Consumer and Professional loudspeakers and
electronic products and personal navigation devices.  We do not
believe the loss of any one of these suppliers would have a material impact on
our consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial
position.
     
    Trademarks
and Patents
     
    We market
our products under numerous brand names that are protected by both pending and
registered trademarks around the world. Our brands include JBL, Infinity,
Harman/Kardon, Lexicon, Mark
Levinson, Revel, Crown, Becker, Soundcraft, Spirit, DigiTech,
AKG, Studer, BSS and dbx. Our
trademark registrations cover use of trademark rights in connection with various
products, such as loudspeakers, speaker systems, speaker system components and
other electrical and electronic devices. We have registered or taken other
protective measures for many of these trademarks in substantially all major
industrialized countries.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          5
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    As of
June 30, 2008 we had 1,868 trademark registrations and 307 pending trademark
applications around the world. On that date, we also had 2,029 United States and
foreign patents and 2,085 pending patent applications covering various audio,
infotainment and software products.
     
    Seasonality
     
    We
experience seasonal fluctuations in sales and earnings. Historically, our first
fiscal quarter ended September 30 is generally the weakest due to automotive
model year changeovers and the summer holidays in Europe. Our sales and earnings
may also vary due to customer acceptance of our products, product offerings by
our competitors and general economic conditions, including fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates.
     
    Customers/Industry
Concentration
     
    We are
subject to various risks related to our dependence on key
customers.  Sales to Daimler accounted for 18 percent and sales to
Audi/VW accounted for 11 percent of our total consolidated net sales for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.  The majority of the Daimler sales
were to the Mercedes-Benz division.  Accounts receivable due from
Daimler accounted for 8 percent and accounts receivable due from Audi/VW
accounted for 11 percent of total consolidated accounts receivable at June 30,
2008.  We anticipate that Daimler and Audi/VW will continue to account
for a significant portion of our net sales and accounts receivables for the
foreseeable future.
     
    For the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, approximately 72 percent of our sales were to
automobile manufacturers.  Our automotive customers are not obligated
to any long-term purchase of our products.  The loss of Daimler,
Audi/VW or any of our other significant automotive customers would have a
material adverse effect on our total consolidated net sales, earnings and
financial position.
     
    Backlog
Orders
     
    We
manufacture automotive products and systems on a just-in-time basis and maintain
sufficient inventories of finished goods to meet Consumer and Professional
customer orders promptly.  As a result, we do not consider the level
of backlog to be an important indication of our future performance. Our backlog
was approximately $69 million at June 30, 2008. We expect to deliver these
products within the next twelve months. Our backlog was approximately $27
million at June 30, 2007.
     
    Warranty
Liabilities
     
    We
warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for
periods ranging from six months to six years from the date of purchase,
depending on the business segment and product. The warranty is a limited
warranty, and it may impose certain shipping costs on the customer and exclude
deficiencies in appearance except for those evident when the product is
delivered. Dealers and warranty service providers normally perform warranty
service for loudspeakers and electronics in the field, using parts we supply on
an exchange basis. Estimated warranty liabilities are based upon past experience
with similar types of products, the technological complexity of certain
products, replacement cost and other factors. We take these factors into
consideration when assessing the adequacy of our warranty provisions for periods
still open to claim.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          6
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Competition
     
    The audio
industry is fragmented and competitive and includes numerous manufacturers
offering audio products that vary widely in price, quality and distribution
methods. Consumer home, multimedia and mobile aftermarket products are offered
through audio specialty stores, discount stores, department stores, mail order
firms and Internet merchants. Automotive and computer manufacturers also offer
branded audio products as options. Music instrument retailers, national
electronics retailers, audio dealers, contractors and installers offer
professional products and customers can also purchase these products on a
contract bid basis. We concentrate primarily on the higher-quality,
higher-priced segments of the audio market and compete based upon the strength
of our brand names, the quality of our products, our ability to provide
integrated systems and our comprehensive marketing, engineering and
manufacturing resources.
     
    In the
automotive audio market, we compete with Bose, Pioneer ASK, Foster Electric and
Panasonic in the sale of audio systems to automotive manufacturers and Alpine,
Bosch, Panasonic, Continental, Visteon, Mitsubishi Electronics, Aisin Seiki and
Denso in the sale of electronics and infotainment systems to automotive
manufacturers. We compete based upon the strength of our brand names and the
quality of our products.
     
    We
believe our competitive position is enhanced by our technical expertise in
designing and integrating acoustics, navigation, speech recognition and
human-machine interfaces into complete infotainment systems uniquely adapted to
the specific requirements of each automobile model.
     
    We
believe that we currently have a significant share of the consumer market for
loudspeakers, primarily as a result of the strength of our brand names and our
technology. We believe JBL and Infinity are two of the most recognized
loudspeaker brands in the world. Our high-end loudspeaker brand, Revel, extends
our market position. Principal competitors in the consumer loudspeaker market
include Bose, Klipsch, Polk Audio, B&W and Boston Acoustics.
     
    Competition
in the consumer home electronics market remains intense and is dominated by
large Asian manufacturers. This market is characterized by the short life cycle
of products and a need for continuous design and development efforts. Our
competitive strategy is to compete in the higher-quality segments of this market
and to continue to emphasize our ability to provide system solutions to
customers, including a combination of loudspeakers, electronics products,
integrated surround sound and home theater systems. Our principal electronic
competitors include Yamaha, Sony, Denon, Onkyo, Pioneer and
Marantz.  We also compete in the luxury consumer electronics market
with our Mark Levinson and Lexicon brands. Our principal competitors in this
high-end market include Krell, McIntosh, Audio Research, Meridian, Linn and
Classe.
     
    In the
multimedia market, we supply Apple stores and other retailers with JBL and
Harman/Kardon speaker systems that serve Apples iPod and iPhone as well as other
MP3 players. Our principal competitors for these products are Bose, Altec
Lansing and Klipsch. We also offer Harman/Kardon and JBL speaker systems to
personal computer retailers. In this market, our principal competitors are
Creative Labs, Altec Lansing, Logitech, Klipsch and Cyber Acoustics.
Additionally, Harman/Kardon audio technology is built into certain Toshiba
laptop computers. The Harman/Kardon Drive + Play 2 mobile product provides full
MP3 control and interface for Apples iPod and iPhone and includes a highly
visible display. Our principal competitor in the MP3 mobile accessory market is
Alpine.  Our personal navigation devices range from simple navigation
units to multi-functional units that encompass all-in-one navigation and
entertainment systems for vehicle and personal use.  Our principal
competitors for these products are Garmin, TomTom, Magellan and
Pioneer.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          7
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    The
market for professional sound systems is highly competitive. We believe that we
have historically held a leading market position in the professional loudspeaker
market and have complemented our professional loudspeaker line by adding digital
professional electronic products and broadcast and recording equipment. We
compete by utilizing our ability to provide systems solutions to meet the
complete audio requirements of our professional customers. With our HiQnet
networking protocol software, our professional brand products can communicate
and operate together. We offer products for most professional audio
applications.
     
    We
compete in the sound reinforcement market using many of our brand names,
including JBL Professional, AKG, Crown, Soundcraft, dbx and BSS. Our principal
competitors in the sound reinforcement market include Telex, Electro Voice,
Mackie, QSC, Meyer Sound Laboratories, Sennheiser, Peavey, Shure, Audio
Technica, and Yamaha. Our Studer, AKG, Soundcraft, JBL Professional and Lexicon
branded products compete in the recording and broadcast markets. Principal
competitors in these markets include Yamaha, Sennheiser, Loud Technologies,
Inc., Lawo, Harris Corporation, DigiDesign/M-Audio, Genelec, KRK, TC
Electronics, Stagetec and Sony. In the music instrument market, competitors for
our JBL Professional, DigiTech, dbx, Crown, Soundcraft and AKG products include
Yamaha, Peavey, QSC, Shure, Sennheiser, Line 6, Dunlop, Zoom, Audio Technica and
Roland. We also compete in the industrial and architectural sound market.
Competitors within this market include Siemens, Peavey and Tannoy.
     
    We are
subject to various Federal, state, local and international environmental laws
and regulations, including those governing the use, discharge and disposal of
hazardous materials. We believe that our facilities are in substantial
compliance with current laws and regulations. The cost of compliance with
current environmental laws and regulations has not been, and is not expected to
be, material.
     
    Research
and Development
     
    Expenditures
for research and development were $395.9 million, $356.7 million and $302.0
million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.
     
    Number
of Employees
     
    At June
30, 2008, we had 11,694 full-time employees, including 4,834 employees located
in North America and 6,860 located outside of North America.
     
    Website
Information
     
    Our
corporate website is located at www.harman.com. Through our website we make
available, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K that we file or furnish
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our
website also provides access to reports filed by our directors, executive
officers and certain significant stockholders pursuant to Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, our Corporate Governance
Guidelines, Ethics Code and charters for three committees of our Board of
Directors are available on our website. The information on our website is not
incorporated by reference into this report. In addition, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file
electronically with the SEC.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          8
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
     
     Item 1A.  Risk Factors
     
    In
addition to the other information included in this report, you should carefully
consider the risk factors described below.
     
    Currency
fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs,
either of which could adversely affect our financial results.
     
    A
significant amount of our assets and operations are located outside the United
States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates, especially the Euro. Translation losses resulting from currency
fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our foreign operations and
have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, we purchase
certain foreign-made products. Although we hedge a portion of our foreign
currency exposure and, due to the multiple currencies involved in our business,
foreign currency positions partially offset and are netted against one another
to reduce exposure, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase.
Increases in our cost of purchasing these products could negatively impact our
financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our
customers.
     
    Failure
to maintain relationships with our largest customers and failure by our
customers to continue to purchase expected quantities of our products due to
changes in market conditions would have an adverse effect on our
operations.
     
    We
anticipate that our automotive customers, including Daimler and Audi/VW, will
continue to account for a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable
future. However, neither Daimler, Audi/VW, nor our other automotive customers
are obligated to any long-term purchases of our products. The loss of sales to
Daimler, Audi/VW, or to any of our other significant automotive customers, would
have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial
position.  In recent years, we held a majority of Daimlers
infotainment and audio system business.  Automakers customarily
maintain dual sourcing arrangements, so our supply relationship with Daimler
exceeded expectations.  Daimler made strategic decisions in 2006 and
2007 to move to dual sourcing, and as a result, our share of Mercedes business
has declined in fiscal 2008 and will further decline in fiscal
2009.  Thereafter, the production volume reaches a stable level which
is still substantial.  However, it is lower than the peak levels of
2006 and 2007. This change in Daimler volume reduces our single customer
dependence.  Sales increases with other automotive customers have
offset the reduction in sales at Daimler.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Our
products may not satisfy shifting consumer demand or compete successfully with
competitors products.
     
    Our
business is based on the demand for audio and video products and our ability to
introduce distinctive new products that anticipate changing consumer demands and
capitalize upon emerging technologies.  If we fail to introduce new
products, misinterpret consumer preferences or fail to respond to changes in the
marketplace, consumer demand for our products could decrease and our brand image
could suffer.  In addition, our competitors may introduce superior
designs or business strategies, impairing our distinctive image and our products
desirability. If any of these events occur, our sales could
decline.
     
    A
decrease in discretionary spending would likely reduce our sales.
     
    Our sales
are dependent on discretionary spending by consumers, which may be adversely
impacted by economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income and retail
sales. In addition, our sales of audio, electronic and infotainment products to
automotive customers are dependent on the overall success of the automobile
industry, as well as the willingness of automobile purchasers to pay for the
option of a premium branded automotive audio system or a multi-function digital
infotainment system.
     
    Our
business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain raw materials
and components from our suppliers on favorable terms.
     
    We are
dependent upon third party suppliers, both in the United States and other
countries, for various components, parts, raw materials and finished products.
Some of our suppliers may produce products that compete with our products. We
use externally sourced microchips in many of our products. A significant
disruption in our supply chain and an inability to obtain alternative sources
could have a material impact on our consolidated results of
operations.
     
    Failure
to deliver products on time to our automotive customers could adversely affect
our financial results.
     
    We have
products in various stages of development for our automotive
customers.  If we do not complete our development efforts in time to
meet our customers vehicle production requirements, we could be subject to
monetary penalties and damage our customer relationships, which could have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial
condition.
     
    Our
business could be adversely affected by a strike or work stoppage at one of our
manufacturing plants or at a facility of one of our significant customers or at
a common carrier or major shipping location.
     
    Certain
of our automotive customers are unionized and may incur work stoppages or
strikes. A work stoppage at our facilities or those of our automotive customers
could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and
financial condition. In addition, a work stoppage at a common carrier or a major
shipping location could also have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
sales, earnings and financial condition.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Obligations
to correct product defects covered by our warranties could adversely affect our
financial results.
     
    We
warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for
periods ranging from six months to six years.  Costs to correct
product defects may exceed our estimates and adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.
     
    Bankruptcy
of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity,
financial position and results of operations.
     
    A
significant portion of our revenues are derived from sales to customers in the
automotive industry, where companies have experienced financial
difficulties.  As part of the bankruptcy process, our pre-petition
receivables may not be realized, customer manufacturing sites may be closed or
contracts voided.  The bankruptcy of a major customer could have a
material adverse effect on the Companys liquidity, financial position, and
results of operations.
     
    We
may lose market share if we are unable to compete successfully against our
current and future competitors.
     
    The audio
and video product markets that we serve are fragmented, highly competitive,
rapidly changing and characterized by intense price competition.
     
    Many
manufacturers, large and small, domestic and foreign, offer audio and video
systems that vary widely in price and quality and are marketed through a variety
of channels, including audio and video specialty stores, discount stores,
department stores, mail order firms, and the Internet. Some of our competitors
have financial and other resources greater than ours. We cannot assure you that
we will continue to compete effectively against existing or new competitors that
may enter our markets. We also compete indirectly with automobile manufacturers
that may improve the quality of original equipment audio and electronic systems,
reducing demand for our aftermarket mobile audio products, or change the designs
of their cars to make installation of our aftermarket products more difficult or
expensive.
     
    If
we do not continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new
and enhanced products, our sales may decrease.
     
    In order
to increase sales in current markets and gain entry into new markets, we must
maintain and improve existing products, while successfully developing and
introducing new products. Our new and enhanced products must respond to
technological developments and changing consumer preferences.  We may
experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction or
market acceptance of new or enhanced products. Furthermore, we may be unable to
detect and correct defects in some of our products before we ship them. Delays
or defects in new product introduction may result in loss of sales or delays in
market acceptance. Even after introduction, our new or enhanced products may not
satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject
our products. As a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance. In
addition, our competitors new products and product enhancements may cause
consumers to defer or forego purchases of our products.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Our
operations could be harmed by factors including political instability, natural
disasters, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in regulations
that govern international transactions.
     
    The risks
inherent in international trade may reduce our international sales and harm our
business and the businesses of our distributors and suppliers. These risks
include:
     
    
    
    
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                changes
      in tariff regulations;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                political
      instability, war, terrorism and other political
  risks;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                foreign
      currency exchange rate
fluctuations;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                establishing
      and maintaining relationships with local distributors and
      dealers;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                lengthy
      shipping times and accounts receivable payment
  cycles;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                import
      and export licensing requirements;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                compliance
      with foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in
      taxation and regulatory
requirements;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                greater
      difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property than in the United
      States; and
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                difficulty
      in staffing and managing geographically diverse
  operations.
              
            
        
      
    
    
    
    
    These and
other risks may increase the relative price of our products compared to those
manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our
products.
     
    If
we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual
property, our business may decline.
     
    Our
future success will depend, in substantial part, on our intellectual property.
We seek to protect our intellectual property rights, but our actions may not
adequately protect the rights covered by our patents, patent applications,
trademarks and other proprietary rights and prosecution of our claims could be
time consuming and costly. In addition, the intellectual property laws of some
foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights, as do the laws of the
United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary information, third
parties may obtain, disclose or use our proprietary information without our
authorization, which could adversely affect our business. From time to time,
third parties have alleged that we infringe their proprietary rights. These
claims or similar future claims could subject us to significant liability for
damages, result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, limit our ability
to use infringing intellectual property or force us to license third-party
technology rather than dispute the merits of any infringement claim. Even if we
prevail, any associated litigation could be time consuming and expensive and
could result in the diversion of our time and resources.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Covenants
in our existing debt agreements could restrict our operations.
     
    Our
existing revolving credit facility and the indenture for our convertible senior
notes contain provisions that could restrict our operating and financing
activities. Together, they restrict our ability to, among other
things:
     
    
    
    
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                incur
      debt;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                create
      or assume liens;
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                enter
      into sale-leaseback transactions;
and
              
            
        
      
      
      
        
            
              
                 
      
              
              
              
              
                engage
      in mergers or consolidations.
              
            
        
      
    
     
    Because
of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may have
difficulty securing additional financing in the form of additional indebtedness.
In addition, our revolving credit facility contains other and more restrictive
covenants, including financial covenants that will require us to achieve
specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified
financial ratios. We may have to curtail some of our operations to maintain
compliance with these covenants.
     
    If
we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our existing debt agreements,
the related debt incurred under those agreements could be declared immediately
due and payable, which could also trigger a default under other
agreements.
     
    Our
ability to meet the covenants or requirements in our credit facilities and the
indenture for our convertible senior notes may be affected by events beyond our
control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy these covenants and
requirements. A breach of these covenants or our inability to comply with the
financial ratios, tests or other restrictions could result in an event of
default under the applicable agreement.  Upon the occurrence of an
event of default under the applicable agreement, the lenders could elect to
declare all amounts outstanding under the applicable agreement, together with
accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our
indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make
those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those
payments. Even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be
on unfavorable terms.
     
    We
are engaged in ongoing litigation and may be the subject of additional
litigation that may result in payments to third parties, which could harm our
business and financial results.
     
    As more
fully described in Part II, Item 3 Legal Proceedings, of this report, we are
currently involved in litigation arising out of or relating to the events
leading up to the termination of the proposed acquisition of the Company in
October 2007 or any earnings guidance provided by the Company.  In
addition, similar litigation has been and may be initiated against us and others
based on the alleged activities and disclosures at issue in the pending
litigation.  We cannot predict the outcome of any such proceeding or
the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against
us.  In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal
proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could harm
our business or financial results.  Furthermore, regardless of the
merits of any claim, the continued maintenance of these legal proceedings may
result in substantial legal expense and could also result in the diversion of
our managements time and attention away from our business.
    
    
      
        
          
          
        
        
          13
          
            
          
        
        
          Index
        
      
    
    
    Harman
International is a holding company with no operations of its own and therefore
our cash flow and ability to service debt is dependent upon distributions from
our subsidiaries.
     
    Our
ability to service our debt and pay dividends is dependent upon the operating
earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of those earnings, or advances or
other distributions of funds by those subsidiaries to Harman International, all
of which could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are
contingent upon the subsidiaries earnings and are subject to various business
considerations.
     
    Any of
the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition. In light of these risks and
uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the results and events
contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report will in
fact transpire.
     
    Item 1B