Item 1A of Part I of this report.

TABLE OF CONTENTS









 








Page


 





Part I



 



 





Item  


1.


Business


1


 





Item  


1A.


Risk Factors


8


 





Item  


1B.


Unresolved Staff Comments


12


 





Item  


2.


Properties


13


 





Item  


3.


Legal Proceedings


14


 





Item  


4.


Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


14


 







Executive Officers of the Registrant


14


 





Part II



 



 





Item  


5.


Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


15


 





Item  


6.


Selected Financial Data


16


 





Item  


7.


Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
 Results of Operations


17


 





Item  


7A.


Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


30


 





Item  


8.


Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


32


 





Item  


9.


Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
 Financial Disclosure


61


 





Item  


9A.


Controls and Procedures


61


 





Item  


9B.


Other Information


61


 





Part III   



 



 





Item  


10.


Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant


61


 





Item  


11.


Executive Compensation


62


 





Item  


12.


Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


62


 





Item  


13.


Certain Relationships and Related Transactions


62


 





Item  


14.


Principal Accounting Fees and Services


62


 





Part IV



 



 





Item  


15.     


Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules


62


 





   





 





 


Signatures


65





The page numbers in this Table of Contents reflect actual page numbers, not EDGAR page tag numbers.

References to “Harman International,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” in this Form 10-K refer to Harman International Industries, Incorporated and its subsidiaries unless
the context requires otherwise.
















Part I

Item 1.  Business

Harman International Industries, Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1980.

We believe we are a worldwide leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of high-quality, high fidelity audio products and electronic systems. We have developed, both internally and through a series of strategic
acquisitions, a broad range of product offerings sold under renowned brand names in our principal markets. We believe that we are a leader in digitally integrated infotainment systems for the automotive industry. We believe our JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon, Mark
Levinson and Becker brand names are well known worldwide for premium quality and performance. We have built these brands by developing our world-class engineering, manufacturing and marketing competences and have employed those resources to establish our company as a
worldwide leader in the markets we serve.

We report our business on the basis of three segments: Automotive, Consumer and Professional. For additional information about these segments, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations included in Item 7 of Part II of this report and Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements located in Item 8 of Part II of this report.

Our Automotive segment designs, manufactures and markets audio, electronic and infotainment systems for vehicle applications primarily to be installed as original equipment by automotive manufacturers.
Our automotive products are marketed worldwide under brand names including JBL, Infinity, Mark Levinson, Harman/Kardon, Logic 7, Lexicon and Becker. Through engineering and supply agreements, our premium audio systems and infotainment product offerings are sold to a
number of global automotive manufacturers including DaimlerChrysler, the BMW Group, Toyota/Lexus, Audi/VW, Porsche, Land Rover, Hyundai, Kia and Peugeot/Citroën. We also produce a Harman/Kardon branded infotainment system for Harley-Davidson touring motorcycles.
Our infotainment systems are a combination of information and entertainment components which may include or control GPS navigation, traffic information, voice-activated telephone and climate control, rear seat entertainment, wireless Internet access, hard disk
recording, MP3 playback, backup camera and a high-end branded audio system. These systems include scaleable software allowing us to better serve a range of vehicles from luxury through entry-level. We also produce aftermarket personal navigation devices that are
currently being sold in Europe.



Our Consumer segment designs, manufactures and markets audio, video and electronic systems for home, mobile and multimedia applications. Our Consumer products are marketed worldwide under brand names including JBL,
Infinity, Harman/Kardon, Lexicon, Mark Levinson and Revel. Our audio, video and electronic systems are recognized throughout the world for superior sound quality and high performance. Our home product applications include systems to provide high-quality audio
throughout the home and our mobile products include an array of aftermarket systems to deliver audio entertainment in the vehicle. Our home audio and electronic products are offered primarily through audio/video specialty stores and retailers such as Circuit City,
Best Buy, MediaMarkt and Fnac. Our branded audio products for multimedia users are primarily focused on retail customers. Our multimedia products are geared towards providing an enhanced sound for Apple’s iPod and other digital audio players and are sold in
retail stores such as the Apple stores, Best Buy and Target.

Our Professional segment designs, manufactures and markets loudspeakers and electronic systems used by audio professionals in concert halls, stadiums, airports, houses of worship and theme attractions. We also














design products for recording, broadcast, cinema and music reproduction applications. In addition, we provide high-quality products to the sound reinforcement, music instrument support and broadcast and recording segments
of the professional audio market.

We offer complete systems solutions for professional installations and users around the world. Our products can be linked by our HiQnetTM <font size="2" face=
"Times New Roman">network protocol providing a central digital network for audio professionals to control different aspects of a complex system. Our Professional brands include JBL Professional, Crown, Soundcraft, DigiTech, dbx, AKG, Lexicon, BSS and Studer. We
believe that we are uniquely equipped to provide turnkey systems solutions for professional audio applications that offer the customer improved performance, reliability, ease of installation and reduced cost.

Our results of operations depend on our sales of audio products and electronic systems in the automotive, consumer and professional markets. Our products are sold worldwide, with the largest markets being the United
States and Germany. A significant portion of our revenues are Euro denominated.

We believe significant growth opportunities continue to exist with automotive manufacturers through increases in the number of models offering our audio, navigation and infotainment systems, supply agreements with
additional automakers, increases in per-vehicle content through the provision of integrated infotainment systems with premium branded audio systems and higher penetration levels of audio and infotainment systems within existing models. We believe significant growth
opportunities exist in the consumer electronics market as the home and multimedia technologies continue to converge. We also believe growth opportunities exist in professional markets and expect that our HiQnet system protocol will allow us to
capitalize on these opportunities as this technology simplifies the interaction of our products and provides users with an incentive to purchase complete HiQnet compatible systems.

Products

Automotive

We believe that we are a leader in developing and manufacturing high-quality, high fidelity digitally-integrated infotainment systems and premium branded audio systems for automobiles.

The automotive market is currently experiencing unprecedented consumer demand for information and entertainment in the car. We have developed leading technical competencies to address this demand. These competencies take
the form of highly integrated infotainment systems that provide and manage audio, radio, video, navigation, telephone and climate control through efficient hardware solutions and scalable software architectures. In fiscal 2006, we supplied infotainment systems for
vehicles manufactured by Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Porsche, Audi, Renault and Land Rover. Our business objective is to maintain our leadership position in the infotainment business.

We continue to leverage our expertise in the design and manufacture of premium branded audio systems, as well as the reputation for quality associated with our JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon, Mark Levinson and Lexicon brand
names. As a result of our well-established relationships with automobile manufacturers, our engineers are engaged early in the vehicle design process to develop systems that optimize acoustic performance and minimize weight and space requirements. Our Infinity
branded car audio systems are offered by DaimlerChrysler’s Chrysler Division as well as Mitsubishi and Hyundai/Kia (in North America). DaimlerChrysler’s Mercedes-Benz Division, the BMW Group, Land Rover, Porsche, GM and Saab provide Harman/Kardon branded
audio systems in their vehicles. Our premium Mark Levinson digital audio system is offered by Lexus. Rolls Royce vehicles come standard with a Lexicon














branded audio system. Toyota, the Peugeot/Citroën Group and Hyundai/Kia (in Asia) offer JBL branded audio systems.

Consumer

In the multimedia market, we offer branded products such as JBL On Stage II,TM JBL Creature II,<font size="1" face="Minion
Display">TM JBLÒOn Time,ÒJBL
RadialTM and Harman/Kardon Soundsticks II.TM Our products add greater functionality for
computers and Apple’s successful iPodÒas well as other MP3 players. Our new Harman/Kardon Drive + PlayTM <font size=
"2">provides full music control and interface along with a highly visible display in automobiles. Music management allows for choice by artist, album, song, genre, composer and play list. We believe our products facilitate the easy transfer of music and data from the
home to the car and back.

We manufacture loudspeakers under the JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon and Revel brand names for the consumer home audio market. These loudspeaker lines include models designed for two-channel stereo and multi-channel
surround sound applications in the home and in a wide range of performance choices, including floor standing, bookshelf, powered, low frequency, in-wall, wireless and all-weather as well as in styles and finishes ranging from high gloss lacquers to genuine wood
veneers. The JBL and Infinity product lines also include car loudspeakers, amplifiers, subwoofers and crossover products sold in the aftermarket as well as marine speakers intended for use on boats.

We offer a broad range of consumer audio electronics under the Harman/Kardon, Mark Levinson and Lexicon brand names. Our Harman/Kardon home electronics line includes audio/video receivers featuring Logic 7, Dolby Digital
and DTS surround sound processing capabilities and multi-channel amplifiers, multi-disc DVD players and CD players. We design and manufacture high-end electronics, including amplifiers, digital signal processors, compact disc players and transports, DVD transports
and surround sound processors that we market under the renowned Mark Levinson brand. We believe that we are a leader in the design and manufacture of high-quality home theater surround sound processors and amplifiers under the Lexicon name. Lexicon was a pioneer in
the development of digital signal processors for the professional audio market and has successfully transferred its professional audio expertise to produce excellent consumer products.

Professional

Our professional products include loudspeakers and electronic equipment that are marketed under what we believe are some of the most respected brand names in the industry, including JBL Professional, Crown, Soundcraft,
Lexicon, DigiTech, AKG, BSS, dbx and Studer.

The professional market is increasingly moving to digital technology. We believe that we are a leader in this market. Our Professional segment derives value from its ability to share research and development, engineering
talent and other digital resources among its business units. Soundcraft, Studer, Crown, Lexicon, DigiTech, dbx and BSS each have substantial digital engineering resources and work together to achieve common goals by sharing resources and technical
expertise.

Our professional loudspeakers are well known for high-quality and superior sound. JBL Professional branded products include studio monitors, loudspeaker systems, powered loudspeakers, sound reinforcement systems, cinema
systems, surround sound systems and industrial loudspeakers.

Our professional electronic products are recognized for high quality and reliability. We market these products on a worldwide basis under various trade names, including Crown, Soundcraft, Lexicon,














DigiTech, AKG, BSS, dbx and Studer. These products are often sold in conjunction with our JBL Professional loudspeakers and in certain products are integrated into JBL loudspeakers.

We produce sound mixing consoles which range from automated multi-track consoles for professional recording studios to compact professional mixers for personal recording, home studios and sound reinforcement. Our consoles
are sold to four main market areas: sound reinforcement, recording studios, broadcast studios and musical instrument dealers. Our mixing consoles are sold primarily under the Soundcraft and Studer brands. We produce many types of signal processing products,
equalizers, and special effects devices that are used in live sound applications and in recording studios to produce sound effects and refine final mixes. These products are sold under the Lexicon, DigiTech, dbx and BSS brand names.

We produce microphones, audio headphones, surround-sound headphones and other professional audio products, which are marketed under the AKG brand name.

We also produce professional amplifiers and powered loudspeakers under the Crown and JBL brand names. We believe the integration of loudspeakers and electronics enhances our ability to provide complete systems solutions
to the professional audio market. Our other professional products include switching systems, digital audio workstations and turnkey broadcasting studio installations marketed primarily under the Studer brand name.

With our HiQnet network protocol we can configure, connect and control a complete professional sound system from microphone to speaker on one unified digital network. This system provides enhanced productivity and
facilitates real-time problem diagnosis and correction from a central location.

Manufacturing

We believe that our world-class manufacturing capabilities are essential to maintaining and improving product quality and performance. Our manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe and Asia.

Our Automotive manufacturing facilities in Europe are located in Germany, the United Kingdom, Sweden, France and Hungary. Our European facilities are primarily used to manufacture automotive navigation and infotainment
systems and audio systems. In North America, we manufacture loudspeakers in Indiana, Kentucky and Mexico and manufacture electronics in California, Kentucky and Missouri.

Our Consumer manufacturing facilities are located in California, Massachusetts, Mexico and China. Our loudspeaker manufacturing capabilities include the production of high-gloss lacquer and wooden veneer loudspeaker
enclosures, wire milling, voice coil winding and the use of computer controlled lathes and other machine tools to produce precision components.

Our principal Professional facilities in North America include the manufacturing of loudspeakers in California and electronic products, including amplifiers and effects devices, in Utah and Indiana. European professional
electronics manufacturing includes mixing consoles in the United Kingdom and Switzerland, professional recording and broadcast equipment in Switzerland and microphones and headphones in Austria.

Our facilities have been designed to emphasize worker safety and compliance with environmental and safety regulations.














Suppliers

We use externally sourced microchips in many of our products. A significant disruption in our microchip supply chain and an inability to obtain alternative sources would have a material impact on our consolidated results
of operations.

Several independent suppliers manufacture electronic products designed by Harman/Kardon and certain Consumer and Professional loudspeakers and electronics. We do not believe the loss of any one of these suppliers would
have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position.

Trademarks and Patents

We market our products under numerous brand names that are protected by both pending and registered trademarks around the world. Our brands include JBL,Ò<font
size="2">Infinity,ÒHarman/Kardon,ÒLexicon,Ò<font
size="2" face="Minion Display">Mark Levinson,ÒRevel,ÒCrown,<font size="2"
face="Symbol">ÒBecker,ÒSoundcraft,ÒDigiTech,<font size="2" face=
"Symbol">ÒAKG,ÒStuder,ÒBSS<font size="2" face=
"Symbol">Òand dbx.ÒOur trademark registrations cover use of trademark rights in connection with
various products, such as loudspeakers, speaker systems, speaker system components and other electrical and electronic devices. We have registered or taken other protective measures for many of these trademarks in substantially all major industrialized countries. As
of June 30, 2006, we had 1,915 trademark registrations and 278 pending trademark applications around the world. On that date, we also had 1,397 United States and foreign patents and 2,033 pending patent applications covering various audio, infotainment and software
products.

Seasonality

We experience seasonal fluctuations in sales and earnings. Historically, our first fiscal quarter ended September 30 is generally the weakest due to automotive model year changeovers and the summer holidays in Europe. Our
sales and earnings may also vary due to customer acceptance of our products, product offerings by our competitors and general economic conditions, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

Customers/Industry Concentration

We are subject to various risks related to dependence on key customers. Sales to DaimlerChrysler and BMW accounted for 25 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of our total consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2006. Accounts receivable due from DaimlerChrysler and BMW accounted for 20 percent and 7 percent, respectively, of total consolidated accounts receivable at June 30, 2006.

We anticipate that DaimlerChrysler and BMW will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales and accounts receivables for the foreseeable future. These automotive customers are not obligated to any
long-term purchase of our products.

The loss of sales to DaimlerChrysler or BMW would have a material adverse effect on our total consolidated net sales, earnings and financial position. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, approximately 64 percent of
our sales were to automobile manufacturers.

Backlog Orders

We manufacture automotive products and systems on a just-in-time basis and maintain sufficient inventories of finished goods to fill Consumer and Professional customer orders promptly; therefore we do not
consider














the level of backlog to be an important indication of our future performance. Our order backlog was approximately $31 million at June 30, 2006. We expect to deliver these products within the next twelve months. Our
backlog was approximately $18 million at June 30, 2005.

Warranty Liabilities

We warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for a period ranging from one year to five years from the date of purchase, depending on the business segment and product. The warranty is a
limited warranty, and it may impose certain shipping costs on the customer and exclude deficiencies in appearance except for those evident when the product is delivered. Dealers and warranty service providers normally perform warranty service for loudspeakers and
electronics in the field, using parts we supply on an exchange basis. Estimated warranty liabilities are based upon past experience with similar types of products, the technological complexity of certain products, replacement cost and other factors. We take these
factors into consideration when assessing the adequacy of our warranty provisions for periods still open to claim.

Competition

The audio industry is fragmented and competitive and includes numerous manufacturers offering audio products that vary widely in price, quality and distribution methods. Consumer home, multimedia and mobile aftermarket
products are offered through audio specialty stores, discount stores, department stores, mail order firms and Internet merchants. Automotive and computer manufacturers also offer branded audio products as options. Music instrument retailers, professional audio
dealers, contractors and installers offer professional products and customers can also purchase these products on a contract bid basis. We concentrate primarily on the higher-quality, higher-priced segments of the audio market and compete based upon the strength of
our brand names, the quality of our products, our ability to provide integrated systems and our comprehensive marketing, engineering and manufacturing resources.

In the automotive audio market, we compete with Bose, Pioneer ASK, Foster Electric and Panasonic in the sale of audio systems to automotive manufacturers and Alpine, Bosch, Panasonic, Siemens VDO, Visteon, Mitsubishi
Electronics, Aisin Seiki and Denso in the sale of electronics and infotainment systems to automotive manufacturers. We compete based upon the strength of our brand names and the quality of our products.

We believe our competitive position is enhanced by our technical expertise in designing and integrating acoustics, navigation, speech recognition and human-machine interfaces into complete infotainment systems uniquely
adapted to the specific requirements of each automobile model.

We believe that we currently have a significant share of the consumer market for loudspeakers, primarily as a result of the strength of our brand names and our technology. We believe JBL and Infinity are two of the most
recognized loudspeaker brands in the world. By developing our high-end loudspeaker brand, Revel, over the past several years, we have extended our market position. Our principal competitors in the consumer loudspeaker market include Bose, Klipsch, Polk Audio, B&W
and Boston Acoustics.

Competition in the consumer home electronics market remains intense, dominated by large Asian manufacturers. This market is characterized by the short life cycle of products and a need for continuous design and
development efforts. Our competitive strategy is to compete in the higher-quality segments of this market and to continue to emphasize our ability to provide system solutions to customers, including a combination of loudspeakers, electronics products, integrated
surround sound and home theater systems. Our principal electronic competitors include Yamaha, Sony, Denon, Onkyo, Pioneer and Marantz.














We also compete in the luxury consumer electronics market with our Mark Levinson and Lexicon brands. Our principal competitors in this high-end market include Krell, McIntosh, Audio Research, Meridian, Linn and
Accuphase.

In the multimedia market, we supply Apple stores and other retailers with JBL and Harman/Kardon speaker systems that serve Apple’s successful iPod as well as other MP3 players. Our principal
competitors for these products are Bose, Altec Lansing and Klipsch. We also offer Harman/Kardon and JBL speaker systems to personal computer retailers. In this market, our principal competitors are Creative Labs, Altec Lansing, Logitech, Klipsch and Cyber Acoustics.
Additionally, Harman/Kardon audio systems are built into certain Toshiba laptops. The new Harman/Kardon Drive + Play mobile product provides full MP3 control and interface for Apple’s iPod and includes a highly visible display. Our principal
competitor in the MP3 mobile accessory market is Alpine.



The market for professional sound systems is highly competitive. We believe that we have historically held a leading market position in the professional loudspeaker market and have complemented our professional
loudspeaker line by adding digital professional electronic products and broadcast and recording equipment. We compete by utilizing our ability to provide systems solutions to meet the complete audio requirements of our professional customers. With our HiQnet
networking protocol software, our professional brand products can communicate and operate together. We offer products for most professional audio applications.

We compete in the sound reinforcement market using many of our brand names, including JBL Professional, AKG, Crown, Soundcraft, dbx and BSS. Our principal competitors in the sound reinforcement market include Telex,
Electro Voice, Mackie, QSC, Meyer Sound Laboratories, Sennheiser, Peavey, Shure, Audio Technica, and Yamaha. Our Studer, AKG, Soundcraft, JBL Professional and Lexicon branded products compete in the recording and broadcast markets. Principal competitors in these
markets include Yamaha, Sennheiser, Loud Technologies, Inc., Lawo, Harris Corporation, DigiDesign/M-Audio, Genelec, KRK, TC Electronics, Stagetec and Sony. In the music instrument market, competitors for our JBL Professional, DigiTech, dbx, Crown, Soundcraft and AKG
products include Yamaha, Peavey, QSC, Shure, Sennheiser, Line 6, Dunlop, Zoom, Audio Technica and Roland. We also compete in the industrial and architectural sound market. Competitors within this market include Siemens, Peavey and Tannoy.

We are subject to various Federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. We believe that our facilities are in
substantial compliance with current laws and regulations. The cost of compliance with current environmental laws and regulations has not been, and is not expected to be, material.

Research and Development

Expenditures for research and development were $302.0 million, $222.6 million and $216.9 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Number of Employees

At June 30, 2006, we had 11,246 full-time employees, including 5,155 employees located in North America and 6,091 located outside of North America.














Website Information

Our corporate website is located at www.harman.com. Through our website we make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or
furnished by the Company pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our website also provides access to reports filed by our directors, executive officers and certain significant shareholders pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Ethics Code and charters for three committees of our Board of Directors are available on our website. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. In
addition, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report.

Our operating results are subject to fluctuations, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decrease significantly.

Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may not meet our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors. The price of our stock will likely decline if this occurs. Factors that may cause
fluctuations in our operating results include, but are not limited to, the following:

      ∙     automobile industry sales and production rates and the willingness of automobile
purchasers to pay for the
            option of a premium audio system and/or a multi-function infotainment system;

      ∙     changes in consumer confidence and spending;

      ∙     fluctuations in currency exchange rates and other risks inherent in international
trade and business
             transactions;

      ∙     the ability to satisfy contract performance criteria, including technical
specifications and due dates;

      ∙     the loss of one or more significant customers, including our automotive
manufacturer customers;

      ∙     competition in the automotive, consumer or professional markets in which we
operate;

      ∙     model-year changeovers in the automotive industry;

      ∙     changes in general economic conditions and specific market conditions;

      ∙     our ability to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual
property;

      ∙     our ability to effectively integrate acquisitions;

      ∙     strikes, work stoppages and labor negotiations at our facilities, or at a facility
of one of our significant
             customers; or work stoppages at a common carrier or a major shipping location;

      ∙     the outcome of pending or future litigation and administrative claims, including
patent and environmental
             matters; and

      ∙     world political stability.

Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results.

A significant amount of our assets and operations are located outside the United States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the Euro. Translation losses














resulting from currency fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our foreign operations and have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, we purchase certain foreign-made products. Although we
hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure and, due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions partially offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our cost of purchasing these products could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers.

Failure to maintain relationships with our largest customers and failure by our customers to continue to purchase expected quantities of our products due to changes in market conditions would have an adverse effect
on our operations.

We anticipate that DaimlerChrysler and BMW will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales for the foreseeable future. However, DaimlerChrysler and BMW are not obligated to any long-term purchases of our
products. The loss of sales to DaimlerChrysler or BMW would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial position.

Our products may not satisfy shifting consumer demand or compete successfully with competitors’ products.

Our business is based on the demand for audio and video products and our ability to introduce distinctive new products that anticipate changing consumer demands and capitalize upon emerging technologies. If we fail to
introduce new products, misinterpret consumer preferences or fail to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for our products could decrease and our brand image could suffer. In addition, our competitors may introduce superior designs or business
strategies, impairing our distinctive image and our products’ desirability. If any of these events occur, our sales could decline.

A decrease in discretionary spending would likely reduce our sales.

Our sales are dependent on discretionary spending by consumers, which may be adversely impacted by economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income and retail sales. In addition, our sales of audio, electronic and
infotainment products to automotive customers are dependent on the overall success of the automobile industry, as well as the willingness of automobile purchasers to pay for the option of a premium branded automotive audio system or a multi-function digital
infotainment system.

Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain raw materials and components from our suppliers on favorable terms.

We are dependent upon third party suppliers, both in the United States and other countries, for various components, parts, raw materials and finished products. Some of our suppliers may produce products that compete with
our products. We use externally sourced microchips in many of our products. A significant disruption in our supply chain and an inability to obtain alternative sources could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations.

Our business could be adversely affected by a strike or work stoppage at one of our manufacturing plants or at a facility of one of our significant customers or at a common carrier or major shipping
location.

One of our manufacturing facilities in the United States operates under a collective bargaining agreement, which was renewed in fiscal 2004. The current contract is scheduled to expire in March 2009. Certain of our
automotive customers are unionized and may incur work stoppages or strikes. A work stoppage at our facilities or those of our automotive customers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated














sales, earnings and financial condition. In addition, a work stoppage at a common carrier or a major shipping location could also have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial
condition.

We may lose market share if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors.

The audio and video product markets that we serve are fragmented, highly competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by intense price competition.

Many manufacturers, large and small, domestic and foreign, offer audio and video systems that vary widely in price and quality and are marketed through a variety of channels, including audio and video specialty stores,
discount stores, department stores, mail order firms, and the Internet. Some of our competitors have financial and other resources greater than ours. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete effectively against existing or new competitors that may enter
our markets. We also compete indirectly with automobile manufacturers that may improve the quality of original equipment audio and electronic systems, reducing demand for our aftermarket mobile audio products, or change the designs of their cars to make installation
of our aftermarket products more difficult or expensive.

If we do not continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced products, our sales may decrease.

In order to increase sales in current markets and gain entry into new markets, we must maintain and improve existing products, while successfully developing and introducing new products. Our new and enhanced products must
respond to technological developments and changing consumer preferences. We may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction or market acceptance of new or enhanced products. Furthermore, despite extensive testing, we may be unable to
detect and correct defects in some of our products before we ship them. Delays or defects in new product introduction may result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. Even after introduction, our new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer
preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. As a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance. In addition, our competitors’ new products and product enhancements may cause consumers to defer or forego purchases of
our products.

Our operations could be harmed by factors including political instability, natural disasters, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in regulations that govern international
transactions.

The risks inherent in international trade may reduce our international sales and harm our business and the businesses of our distributors and suppliers. These risks include:

      ∙     changes in tariff regulations;

      ∙     political instability, war, terrorism and other political risks;

      ∙     foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;

      ∙     establishing and maintaining relationships with local distributors and
dealers;

      ∙     lengthy shipping times and accounts receivable payment cycles;

      ∙     import and export licensing requirements;

      ∙     compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in
taxation and regulatory
              requirements;














      ∙     greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property than in the United
States; and

      ∙     difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations.

These and other risks may increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, reducing the demand for our products.

If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual property, our business may decline.

Our future success will depend, in substantial part, on our intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights, but our actions may not adequately protect the rights covered by our patents, patent
applications, trademarks and other proprietary rights and prosecution of our claims could be time consuming and costly. In addition, the intellectual property laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights, as do the laws of the United States.
Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary information, third parties may obtain, disclose or use our proprietary information without our authorization, which could adversely affect our business. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe
their proprietary rights. These claims or similar future claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights, limit our ability to use infringing intellectual property or force us to license third-party
technology rather than dispute the merits of any infringement claim. Even if we prevail, any associated litigation could be time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of our time and resources.

Covenants in our debt agreements could restrict our operations.

Our revolving credit facility contains certain provisions that could restrict our operating and financing activities. They restrict our ability to, among other things:

      ∙     create or assume liens;

      ∙     enter into sale-leaseback transactions; and

      ∙     engage in mergers or consolidations.

Because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may have difficulty securing additional financing in the form of additional indebtedness. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains other
and more restrictive covenants, including financial covenants that will require us to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. We may have to curtail some of our operations to maintain compliance with
these covenants.

If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements, the related debt incurred under those agreements could be declared immediately due and payable, which could also trigger a default under
other agreements.

Our ability to meet the covenants or requirements in our credit facilities may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy these covenants and requirements. A breach of these
covenants or our inability to comply with the financial ratios, tests or other restrictions could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could
elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make those payments or
borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. Even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms.














Harman International is a holding company with no operations of its own and therefore our cash flow and ability to service debt is dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries.

Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is dependent upon the operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of those earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by those subsidiaries to
Harman International, all of which could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings and are subject to various business considerations.

Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the results and
events contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report will in fact transpire.

Item 1B