Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Forward-Looking
    Information and Risk Factors that May Affect Future
    Results


 


    From time to time, including in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish
    “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
    “forward-looking statements” may relate to such
    matters as anticipated financial performance, business
    prospects, technological developments, new products, the timing
    of entertainment releases, marketing and promotional efforts,
    research and development activities, liquidity, and similar
    matters. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to
    risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking
    statements. These statements may be identified by the use of
    forward-looking words or phrases such as “anticipate,”
    “believe,” “could,” “expect,”
    “intend,” “looking forward,”
    “may,” “planned,” “potential,”
    “should,” “will” and “would” or
    any variations of words with similar meanings. We note that a
    variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience
    to differ materially from the anticipated results or other
    expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking
    statements. The factors listed below are illustrative and other
    risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from
    time to time in our public announcements and our filings with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as on
    Forms 8-K,
    10-Q and
    10-K. We
    undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the
    forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or
    circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this
    report. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or
    share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or
    shares, except for per share amounts.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Volatility
    of consumer preferences, combined with the high level of
    competition and low barriers to entry in the family
    entertainment industry make it difficult to maintain the
    long-term success of existing product lines or consistently
    introduce successful new products. In addition, an inability to
    develop and introduce planned new products and product lines in
    a timely manner may damage our business.


 


    The family entertainment business is a fashion industry. Our
    success is critically dependent upon the consumer appeal of our
    products, principally games and toys. Our failure to
    successfully anticipate, identify and react to children’s
    interests and the preferences in family entertainment could
    significantly lower sales of our products and harm our
    profitability.


 


    A decline in the popularity of our existing products and product
    lines, or the failure of our new products and product lines to
    achieve and sustain market acceptance, could significantly lower
    our sales and operating margins, which would harm our
    profitability, business and financial condition. In our
    industry, it is important to identify and offer what are
    considered to be the “hot” toys and games on
    children’s wish lists. Our continued success will depend on
    our ability to develop, market and sell popular toys, games and
    children’s electronic products which are sought after by
    both children and their parents. We seek to achieve and maintain
    market popularity for our products through the redesign and
    extension of our existing family entertainment properties in
    ways that capture consumer interest and imagination and remain
    relevant in today’s world, and by developing, introducing
    and gaining customer interest for new family entertainment
    products. This process involves anticipating and extending
    successful play patterns and identifying entertainment concepts
    and properties that appeal to children’s imaginations.
    However, consumer preferences with respect to family
    entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to
    anticipate. Individual family entertainment products and
    properties generally, and high technology products in
    particular, often have short consumer life cycles.


 


    Not only must we address rapidly changing consumer tastes and
    interests but we face competitors who are also constantly
    monitoring consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to
    consumers and introducing new products that compete with our
    products for consumer purchasing. In addition to existing
    competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the
    family entertainment industry are low. New participants with a
    popular product idea or property can gain access to consumers
    and become a significant source of competition for our products.


 


    The challenge of developing and offering products that are
    sought after by children is compounded by the trend of children
    “getting older younger”. By this we mean that children
    are losing interest in traditional toys at younger ages and, as
    a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with
    the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics
    companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy
    and game industry.


 


    In addition to designing and developing products based on our
    own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and
    interests by producing products based on popular entertainment
    properties developed by other parties and licensed to us. The
    success of entertainment properties released theatrically for
    which we have a license, such as STAR WARS related products, can
    significantly affect our revenues. If we produce a line of
    products based on a movie or television series, the success of
    the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of
    consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. In
    addition, competition in our industry for access to
    entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure,
    maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products
    on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the
    talented employees necessary to design, develop and market
    successful products based on these properties. The loss of
    ownership rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing
    agreements could harm our business and competitive position.


 


    There is no guarantee that:


 


    1) Any of our current products or product lines will
    continue to be popular;


 


    2) Any property for which we have a significant license
    will achieve or sustain popularity;


 


    3) Any new products or product lines we introduce will be
    considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate
    market acceptance;



    
    9



Table of Contents




    4) Any new product’s life cycle will be sufficient to
    permit us to profitably recover development, manufacturing,
    marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees)
    and other costs of producing and selling the product; or


 


    5) We will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or
    continuing products in a timely basis to meet constantly
    changing consumer demands, a risk that is heightened by our
    customers’ compressed shipping schedules and the
    seasonality of our business.


 


    In developing new products and product lines, we have
    anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. When
    we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a
    particular product or product line at a certain time in the
    future those expectations are based on completing the associated
    development and implementation work in accordance with our
    currently anticipated development schedule. Unforeseen delays or
    difficulties in the development process, or significant
    increases in the planned cost of development, may cause the
    introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or,
    in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be
    discontinued. Similarly, the success of our products is often
    dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of related
    advertising and media efforts. Television programming, movie and
    DVD releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are
    often critical in generating interest in our products. Not only
    our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact
    the launch dates and success of these media efforts. When we say
    that products or brands will be supported by certain media
    releases, those statements are based on our current plans and
    expectations. Unforeseen factors may delay these media releases
    or even lead to their cancellation. Any delay or cancellation of
    planned product development work, introductions, or media
    support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our
    business.


 



    Our
    business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results
    will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively
    brief holiday season. Further, this seasonality is increasing,
    as large retailers become more efficient in their control of
    inventory levels through quick response inventory management
    techniques.


 


    Sales of our family entertainment products at retail are
    extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring
    during the period from September through December in
    anticipation of the holiday season, including Christmas. This
    seasonality is increasing, as large retailers become more
    efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick
    response inventory management techniques. These customers are
    timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers,
    such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. For
    toys, games and other family entertainment products which we
    produce a majority of retail sales occur in the fourth quarter,
    close to the holiday season. As a consequence, the majority of
    our sales to our customers occur in the period from September
    through December, as our customers do not want to maintain large
    on-hand inventories throughout the year to meet consumer demand.
    While these techniques reduce a retailer’s investment in
    inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill
    orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of
    inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier.


 


    The limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or
    delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. If we or
    our customers determine that one of our products is more popular
    at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have
    sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to
    fully capture consumer interest in the product. Additionally,
    the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter
    time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve
    tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce
    our sales and harm our financial performance. This seasonal
    pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to
    manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year
    prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting
    of demand for products during the holiday season in order to
    avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing
    excess inventory of products that are less popular with
    consumers. Our failure to accurately predict and respond to
    consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items
    and/or
    overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales
    and harm our results of operations. In addition, as a result of
    the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly
    and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the
    impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the
    year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or
    economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer
    buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events,
    such



    
    10



Table of Contents




    as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of
    goods, particularly from the Far East, during the months leading
    up to the holiday purchasing season.


 



    The
    continuing consolidation of our retail customer base means that
    economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of
    our major customers could have a significant impact on
    us.


 


    We depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell
    the majority of our products. For the fiscal year ended
    December 25, 2005, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Toys ‘R Us,
    Inc., and Target Corporation accounted for approximately 24%,
    12% and 12%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and
    our five largest customers, including Wal-Mart, Toys ‘R Us
    and Target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 53% of
    our consolidated net revenues. While the consolidation of our
    customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as
    potentially more efficient product distribution and other
    decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation
    also means that if one or more of our major customers were to
    experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us,
    cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of
    their purchases from us or return substantial amounts of our
    products, it could harm our business, financial condition and
    results of operations. Increased concentration among our
    customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate
    higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower
    gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were
    less consolidation among our customers. In addition, the
    bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our
    significant retail customers could negatively impact our
    revenues and bad debt expense.


 



    We may
    not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed
    material has less market appeal than expected or if sales
    revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out
    the minimum guaranteed royalties.


 


    An important part of our business involves obtaining licenses to
    produce products based on various theatrical releases, such as
    STAR WARS movies. The license agreements we enter to obtain
    these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty
    guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be
    greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual
    sales, which could result in write-offs of such amounts that
    would harm our results of operations. At December 25, 2005,
    we had $126,515 of prepaid royalties, $37,107 of which are
    included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and
    $89,408 of which are included in other assets. Under the terms
    of existing contracts as of December 25, 2005, we are
    required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other
    licensing fees totaling approximately $66,770. Acquiring or
    renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed
    royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable,
    which may result in losing licenses we currently hold when they
    become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities
    for new licenses. As a licensee, we have no guaranty that a
    particular brand will translate into successful toy or game
    products.


 


    In addition to contracts existing as of the end of our 2005
    fiscal year, in January 2006, we entered into a license
    arrangement with Marvel Entertainment, Inc., and its subsidiary
    Marvel Characters, Inc. This license arrangement, which grants
    us the right to produce certain products based on Marvel’s
    characters for five years for retail sales beginning in 2007,
    requires us to make guaranteed minimum payments in the amount of
    up to $205,000. There is no guarantee that we will sell enough
    licensed merchandise under the agreement to earn-out the
    $205,000 in guaranteed payments and make a profit.


 


    We anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie
    releases will make it increasingly difficult for us to sell
    licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead
    our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order
    to minimize inventory risk. Furthermore, there can be no
    assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful
    or maintain a high level of sales in the future. In the event
    that we are not able to acquire or maintain advantageous
    licenses, our revenues and profits may be harmed.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Our
    substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the
    United States subject us to risks associated with international
    operations.


 


    We operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries
    outside the United States. For the year ended December 25,
    2005, our net revenues from international customers comprised
    approximately 40% of our total consolidated net revenues. We
    expect our sales to international customers to continue to
    account for a significant portion of our revenues. Additionally,
    we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the
    Far East and we have a manufacturing facility in Ireland. These
    sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks
    associated with international operations, including:


 


    1) Currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations;


 


    2) Limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of
    earnings;


 


    3) Political instability, civil unrest and economic
    instability;


 


    4) Greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property
    rights and weaker laws protecting such rights;


 


    5) Complications in complying with laws in varying
    jurisdictions and changes in governmental policies;


 


    6) Natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense
    in recovering therefrom;


 


    7) Transportation delays and interruptions; and


 


    8) The imposition of tariffs.


 


    Our reliance on external sources of manufacturing can be
    shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of
    supply, should such changes be necessary. However, if we were
    prevented from obtaining products or components for a material
    portion of our product line due to political, labor or other
    factors beyond our control, our operations would be disrupted
    while alternative sources of products were secured. In
    particular, as the majority of our toy products, in addition to
    certain other products, are manufactured in the People’s
    Republic of China, health conditions and other factors affecting
    social and economic activity in China and affecting the movement
    of people and products into and from China to our major markets,
    including North America and Europe, could have a significant
    negative impact on our operations. Factors that could negatively
    affect our business include a potential revaluation of the
    Chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of
    producing products in China, or increases in labor costs and
    difficulties in moving products manufactured in the Far East
    through the ports on the western coast of North America. Also,
    the imposition of trade sanctions by the United States or the
    European Union against a class of products imported by us from,
    or the loss of “normal trade relations” status with,
    the People’s Republic of China, could significantly
    increase our cost of products imported into the United States or
    Europe and harm our business. Because of the importance of our
    international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing
    to our business, our financial condition and results of
    operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks
    described above were to occur.


 



    Part
    of our strategy for remaining relevant to older children is to
    offer innovative children’s toy and game electronic
    products. The margins on many of these products are lower than
    more traditional toys and games and such products may have a
    shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. As a
    result, increasing sales of children’s toy and game
    electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and
    produce more volatility in our business.


 


    As children have grown “older younger” and have become
    interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products,
    such as videogames and consumer electronics, at younger and
    younger ages, we have needed to work even harder to keep our
    products relevant for these consumers. One initiative we have
    been pursuing to capture the interest of older children is to
    offer innovative children’s electronic toys and games.
    Examples of such products in the last few years include
    VIDEONOW, CHATNOW, MISSION PAINTBALL and I-DOG. These products,
    if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with
    tween consumers and increase



    
    12



Table of Contents




    sales. However, children’s electronics, in addition to the
    risks associated with our other family entertainment products,
    also face certain additional risks.


 


    Our costs for producing electronic products tend to be higher
    than for many of our other more traditional products, such as
    board games and action figures. The ability to reflect higher
    costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in
    consumer electronics. As a consequence, our margins on the sales
    of electronic products tend to be lower than for more
    traditional products. In addition, the pace of change in product
    offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is
    potentially even greater than for our other products. This pace
    of change means that the window in which a product can achieve
    and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter.


 



    Market
    conditions, including commodity and fuel prices, public health
    conditions and other third party conduct could negatively impact
    our margins and our other business initiatives.


 


    Economic and public health conditions, including factors that
    impact the strength of the retail market and retail demand, or
    our ability to manufacture and deliver products, can have a
    significant impact on our business. The success of our family
    entertainment products is dependant on consumer purchasing of
    those products. Consumers may not purchase our products because
    the products do not capture consumer interest and imagination.
    But consumer spending on our products can also be harmed by
    factors that negatively impact consumer’s budgets
    generally, and which are not due to our product offerings.
    Significant increases in the costs of other products which are
    required by consumers, such as gasoline and home heating fuels,
    may reduce household spending on entertainment products we
    offer. In addition, rising fuel and raw material prices, for
    components such as resin, or increased transportation costs, may
    increase our costs for producing and transporting our products,
    which in turn may reduce our margins and harm our business.


 


    In addition, general economic conditions and employment levels
    can impact demand for our products. Economic conditions were
    significantly harmed by the September 11, 2001 terrorist
    attacks and could be similarly affected by any future attacks.
    Economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by wars and
    other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices, or the
    prospect of such events. Such a weakened economic and business
    climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a
    climate, could harm our sales and profitability.


 


    Other conditions, such as the unavailability of electrical
    components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and
    ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. Additional
    factors outside of our control could delay or increase the cost
    of implementing our business initiatives and product plans or
    alter our actions and reduce actual results. For example, work
    stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, or the occurrence or threat of
    wars or other conflicts, could impact our ability to manufacture
    or deliver product, resulting in increased costs
    and/or lost
    sales for our products.


 



    Our
    business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may
    not be able to protect such rights successfully. In addition, we
    have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if
    impaired, would result in a reduction of our
    income.


 


    Our intellectual property, including our license agreements and
    other agreements that establish our ownership rights and
    maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, are
    of great value. We rely on a combination of trade secret,
    copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws
    to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related
    to our brands. From time to time, third parties have challenged,
    and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our
    intellectual property. In addition, our business is subject to
    the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or
    infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may need to
    resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property
    rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of
    resources. Our failure to protect our intellectual property
    rights could harm our business and competitive position. Much of
    our intellectual property has been internally developed and has
    no carrying value on our balance sheet. As of December 25,
    2005, we had approximately $609,678 of acquired product and
    licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet.
    Declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed
    products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of
    the related assets and



    
    13



Table of Contents




    could result in an impairment charge. Reduction in our net
    income caused by impairment charges could harm our financial
    results.


 



    We may
    not realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions or
    those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their
    realization.


 


    Although we have not made any major acquisitions in the last few
    years, acquisitions have been a significant part of our
    historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and
    diversify our product offerings. In making acquisitions, we
    target companies that we believe offer attractive family
    entertainment products. However, we cannot be certain that the
    products of companies we may acquire in the future will achieve
    or maintain popularity with consumers. In some cases, we expect
    that the integration of the product lines of the companies that
    we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing
    and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue
    growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings,
    operating efficiencies and other advantages. However, we cannot
    be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings
    will be realized. Even if achieved, these benefits may be
    delayed or reduced in their realization. In other cases, we
    acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative
    management, in which case we plan to operate them autonomously
    rather than fully integrating them into our operations. We
    cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these
    companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or
    that they will continue to develop popular and profitable
    products or services.


 



    From
    time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or
    regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which
    could entail significant expense.


 


    As is the case with many large multinational corporations, we
    are subject from time to time to regulatory investigations,
    litigation and arbitration disputes. Because the outcome of
    litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is
    inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome
    of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us
    and harm our business.


 



    We
    rely on external financing, including our credit facilities and
    accounts receivable securitization facility, to fund our
    operations. If we were unable to obtain or service such
    financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were
    too burdensome, our business would be harmed.


 


    Due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our
    working capital needs, particularly those in the third and
    fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and
    our other credit facilities for working capital. We currently
    have an amended and restated revolving credit agreement, which
    provides for a $350,000 revolving credit facility. The credit
    agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth
    minimum cash flow and coverage requirements, and a number of
    other limitations, including restrictions on capital
    expenditures, investments, acquisitions, share repurchases,
    incurrence of indebtedness and dividend payments. These
    restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and
    financial, operating and strategic flexibility. In addition, our
    financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our
    credit facility. Our performance and financial condition may not
    meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such
    financial covenants. If we were unable to meet our financial
    covenants, or if we failed to comply with other covenants in our
    credit facility, we could face significant negative
    consequences, including loss of the ability to raise capital
    under these facilities to fund our operations.


 


    As an additional source of working capital and liquidity, we
    currently have a $250,000 accounts receivable securitization
    program. Under this program, we sell on an ongoing basis,
    substantially all of our U.S. dollar denominated trade
    accounts receivable to a bankruptcy remote special purpose
    entity. Under this facility, the special purpose entity is able
    to sell, on a revolving basis, undivided ownership interests in
    the eligible receivables to bank conduits. During the term of
    the facility, we must maintain certain performance ratios. If we
    fail to maintain these ratios, we could be prevented from
    accessing this cost-effective source of working capital and
    short-term financing.


 


    We believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our
    cash on hand and access to existing credit facilities and our
    accounts receivable securitization facility, are adequate for
    current and planned needs



    
    14



Table of Contents




    in 2006. However, our actual experience may differ from these
    expectations. Factors that may lead to a difference include, but
    are not limited to, the matters discussed herein, as well as
    future events that might have the effect of reducing our
    available cash balance, such as unexpected material operating
    losses or increased capital or other expenditures, as well as
    increases in inventory or accounts receivable that are
    ineligible for sale under our securitization facility, or future
    events that may reduce or eliminate the availability of external
    financial resources.


 


    We also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to
    time, through the issuance of debt securities. Our ability to
    issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will
    depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any
    ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest
    rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit
    markets at the time of the offering. The condition of the credit
    markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the
    past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Variations in
    these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt
    securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order
    to sell new debt securities. The failure to receive financing on
    desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support
    our future operations or capital needs or engage in other
    business activities.


 


    As of December 25, 2005, we had approximately
    $527.7 million of total principal amount of indebtedness
    outstanding. If we are unable to generate sufficient available
    cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to
    refinance such debt or face default. There is no guarantee that
    we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at
    all. This total indebtedness includes $249,996 in aggregate
    principal amount of 2.75% senior convertible debentures
    that we issued in 2001. On December 1, 2011 and
    December 1, 2016, and upon the occurrence of certain
    fundamental corporate changes, holders of the 2.75% senior
    convertible debentures may require us to purchase their
    debentures. At that time, the purchase price may be paid in
    cash, shares of common stock or a combination of the two, at our
    discretion, provided that we will pay accrued and unpaid
    interest in cash. We may not have sufficient cash at that time
    to make the required repurchases and may be required to settle
    in shares of common stock.


 


    We previously issued warrants that provide the holder with an
    option through January 2008 to sell all of these warrants to us
    for a price to be paid, at our election, of either $100,000 in
    cash or $110,000 in our common stock, such stock being valued at
    the time of the exercise of the option. Should we be required to
    settle these warrants under this option, we believe that we will
    have adequate funds to settle in cash if necessary. However, we
    may not have sufficient funds at that time to make the required
    payment and may be required to settle the warrants in stock.


 



    As a
    manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational
    corporation, we are subject to various government regulations,
    violation of which could subject us to sanctions. In addition,
    we could be the subject of future product liability suits, which
    could harm our business.


 


    As a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to
    significant government regulations under The Consumer Products
    Safety Act, The Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and The
    Flammable Fabrics Act. In addition, certain of our products are
    subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration. While
    we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with
    these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in
    compliance in the future. Failure to comply could result in
    sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    In addition to government regulation, products that have been or
    may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from
    personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such
    products. There can be no assurance that a claim will not be
    brought against us in the future. While we currently maintain
    product liability insurance coverage in amounts we believe
    sufficient for our business risks, we may not be able to
    maintain such coverage or such coverage may not be adequate to
    cover all potential claims. Moreover, even if we maintain
    sufficient insurance coverage, any successful claim could
    significantly harm our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    As a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host
    of governmental regulations throughout the world, including
    antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott
    regulations and the Foreign Corrupt



    
    15



Table of Contents




    Practices Act. Our failure to successfully comply with any such
    legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and
    other sanctions that could harm our business and financial
    condition.


 



    We
    have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes
    impaired, would result in a reduction in our net
    income.


 


    Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition
    accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value
    of the net assets we acquire. Current accounting standards
    require that goodwill no longer be amortized but instead be
    periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of
    the reporting unit. At December 25, 2005, approximately
    $467,061 or 14.1%, of our total assets represented goodwill.
    Declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our
    reporting units, which could result in a further write-down of
    our goodwill. Reductions in our net income caused by the
    write-down of goodwill could harm our results of operations.





 




    
    



    
    Item 1B