Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We, like other financial companies, are subject to a number of
    risks that may adversely affect our financial condition or
    results of operation, many of which are outside of our direct
    control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while
    optimizing returns. Among the risks assumed are: (1) credit
    risk, which is the risk of loss due to loan and lease
    customers or other counterparties not being able to meet their
    financial obligations under agreed upon terms, (2) market
    risk, which is the risk of loss due to changes in the market
    value of assets and liabilities due to changes in market
    interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, and
    credit spreads, (3) liquidity risk, which is the risk of
    loss due to the possibility that funds may not be available to
    satisfy current or future commitments based on external macro
    market issues, investor and customer perception of financial
    strength, and events unrelated to the Company such as war,
    terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues, and
    (4) operational risk, which is the risk of loss due to
    human error, inadequate or failed internal systems and controls,
    violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations,
    prescribed practices, or ethical standards, and external
    influences such as market conditions, fraudulent activities,
    disasters, and security risks.


 


    In addition to the other information included or incorporated by
    reference into this report, readers should carefully consider
    that the following important factors, among others, could
    materially impact our business, future results of operations,
    and future cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    (1)  

    
    Credit
    Risks:





 



    The
    allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or be negatively
    affected by credit risk exposures.


 


    Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers.
    We periodically review the allowance for loan and lease losses
    for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends,
    collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past
    charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and
    nonperforming assets. There is no certainty that the allowance
    for loan losses will be adequate over time to cover credit
    losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes
    in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting
    specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality
    of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile
    of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially,
    or if the allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our
    business, financial condition, liquidity, capital, and results
    of operations could be materially adversely affected.


 



    All of
    our loan portfolios, particularly our construction and
    commercial real estate (CRE) loans, may continue to be affected
    by the sustained economic weakness of our Midwest markets and
    the impact of higher unemployment rates. This may have a
    significantly adverse affect on our business, financial
    condition, liquidity, capital, and results of
    operation.


 


    As described in the “Credit Risk” discussion, credit
    quality performance continued to be under pressure during 2009,
    with nonaccrual loans and leases (NALs) and nonperforming assets
    (NPAs) both higher at December 31, 2009, compared with
    December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007. It should be
    noted that there was a 12% decline in NPA’s in the 2009
    fourth quarter. The allowance for credit losses (ACL) of
    $1,531.4 million at December 31, 2009, was 4.16% of
    period-end loans and leases and 80% of period-end NALs.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    The majority of our credit risk is associated with lending
    activities, as the acceptance and management of credit risk is
    central to profitable lending. Credit risk is mitigated through
    a combination of credit policies and processes, market risk
    management activities, and portfolio diversification. However,
    adverse changes in our borrowers’ ability to meet their
    financial obligations under agreed upon terms and, in some
    cases, to the value of the assets securing our loans to them may
    increase our credit risk. Our commercial portfolio, as well as
    our real estate-related consumer portfolios, have continued to
    be negatively affected by the ongoing reduction in real estate
    values and reduced levels of sales and leasing activities. Our
    ACL reserving methodology uses individual loan portfolio
    performance factors based on an analysis of historical
    charge-off experience and migration patterns as part of the
    determination of ACL adequacy. Such factors are subject to
    regular review and may change to reflect updated performance
    trends and expectations, particularly in times of severe
    economic stress. There is no certainty that the ACL will be
    adequate over time to cover credit losses in the portfolio
    because of continued adverse changes in the economy, market
    conditions, or events adversely affecting specific customers,
    industries or markets. If the credit quality of the customer
    base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market,
    industry, or group of customers changes materially, or if the
    ACL is determined to not be adequate, our business, financial
    condition, liquidity, capital, and results of operations could
    be materially adversely affected.


 


    Bank regulators periodically review our ACL and may require us
    to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or loan
    charge-offs. Any increase in our ACL or loan charge-offs as
    required by these regulatory authorities could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial
    condition.


 


    In particular, an increase in our ACL could result in a
    reduction in the amount of our tangible common equity (TCE)
    and/or our
    Tier 1 common equity. Given the focus on these
    measurements, we may be required to raise additional capital
    through the issuance of common stock as a result of an increase
    in our ACL. The issuance of additional common stock or other
    actions could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of
    our common stock, and adversely affect the market price of our
    common stock.


 



    A
    sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic
    conditions generally or specifically in the markets in which we
    do business could adversely affect our business and operating
    results.


 


    Our business could be adversely affected to the extent that
    weaknesses in business and economic conditions have direct or
    indirect impacts on us or on our customers and counterparties.
    These conditions could lead, for example, to one or more of the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and
    services offered by us;




 



     
        • 

    
    A decrease in customer savings generally and in the demand for
    savings and investment products offered by us; and




 



     
        • 

    
    An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who
    become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws, or
    default on their loans or other obligations to us.





 


    An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or
    defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets,
    net charge-offs, provision for credit losses, and valuation
    adjustments on loans held for sale. The markets we serve are
    dependent on industrial and manufacturing businesses and thus
    particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic
    conditions.


 



    Declines
    in home values and reduced levels of home sales in our markets
    could continue to adversely affect us.


 


    Like all financial institutions, we are subject to the effects
    of any economic downturn. There has been a slowdown in the
    housing market across our geographic footprint, reflecting
    declining prices and excess inventories of houses to be sold.
    These developments have had, and further declines may continue
    to have, a negative effect on our financial conditions and
    results of operations. At December 31, 2009, we had:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    $7.6 billion of home equity loans and lines, representing
    21% of total loans and leases.







    
    12



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    $4.5 billion in residential real estate loans, representing
    12% of total loans and leases. Adjustable-rate mortgages,
    primarily mortgages that have a fixed rate for the first 3 to
    5 years and then adjust annually, comprised 56% of this
    portfolio.




 



     
        • 

    
    $0.9 billion of loans to single family home builders. These
    loans represented 2% of total loans and leases.




 



     
        • 

    
    $4.9 billion of mortgage-backed securities, including
    $3.5 billion of Federal Agency mortgage-backed securities,
    $0.5 billion of private label collateralized mortgage
    obligations, $0.1 billion of Alt-A mortgage backed
    securities, and $0.1 billion of pooled trust preferred
    securities that could be negatively affected by a decline in
    home values.




 



     
        • 

    
    $0.3 billion of bank owned life insurance (BOLI)
    investments primarily in mortgage-backed securities. This
    investment represents 24% of the total BOLI investment portfolio.





 



    Adverse
    economic conditions in the automobile manufacturing and related
    service industries may impact our banking business.


 


    Many of the banking markets we serve are connected, directly or
    indirectly, to the automobile manufacturing industry. We do not
    have any direct credit exposure to automobile manufacturers.
    However, we do have a modest exposure to companies that derive
    more than 25% of their revenues from contracts with the
    automobile manufacturing companies. Also, these automobile
    manufacturers or their suppliers employ many of our consumer
    customers. The automobile manufacturing industry has experienced
    significant economic difficulties over the past five years,
    which, in turn, has adversely impacted a number of related
    industries that serve the automobile manufacturing industry,
    including automobile parts suppliers and other indirect
    businesses. We cannot provide assurance that the economic
    conditions in the automobile manufacturing and related service
    industries will improve at any time in the foreseeable future or
    that adverse economic conditions in these industries will not
    impact the Bank.


 




    
    



    
    (2)  

    
    Market
    Risks:





 



    We may
    raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on
    the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect
    the market price of our common stock.


 


    During 2009, we issued 346.8 million shares of additional
    common stock through two common stock public offerings, three
    discretionary equity issuance programs, and conversions of
    preferred stock into common stock. The issuance of these
    additional shares of common stock resulted in a 95% increase of
    outstanding shares of common stock at December 31, 2009,
    compared with December 31, 2008, and those additional
    shares were significantly dilutive to existing common
    shareholders. (See the “Capital” section located
    within the “Risk Management and Capital” section for
    additional information). As of December 31, 2009, we had
    130.2 million of additional authorized common shares
    available for issuance, and 4.8 million of additional
    authorized preferred shares available for issuance.


 


    We are not restricted from issuing additional authorized shares
    of common stock or securities that are convertible into or
    exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common
    stock. We continually evaluate opportunities to access capital
    markets taking into account our regulatory capital ratios,
    financial condition, and other relevant considerations, and
    subject to market conditions, we may take further capital
    actions. Such actions, with regulatory approval when required,
    may include opportunistically retiring our outstanding
    securities, including our subordinated debt, trust-preferred
    securities, and preferred shares, in open market transactions,
    privately negotiated transactions, or public offers for cash or
    common shares, as well as issuing additional shares of common
    stock in public or private transactions in order to increase our
    capital levels above our already “well-capitalized”
    levels, as defined by the federal bank regulatory agencies, and
    other regulatory capital targets.


 


    Both Huntington and the Bank are highly regulated, and we, as
    well as our regulators, continue to regularly perform a variety
    of capital analyses, including the preparation of stress case
    scenarios. As a result of those assessments, we could determine,
    or our regulators could require us, to raise additional capital
    in the





    
    13



Table of Contents





    future. Any such capital raise could include, among other
    things, the potential issuance of additional common equity to
    the public, the potential issuance of common equity to the
    government under the CAP, or the additional conversions of our
    existing Series B Preferred Stock to common equity. There
    could also be market perceptions that we need to raise
    additional capital, and regardless of the outcome of any stress
    test or other stress case analysis, such perceptions could have
    an adverse effect on the price of our common stock.


 


    Furthermore, in order to improve our capital ratios above our
    already “well-capitalized” levels, we can decrease the
    amount of our risk-weighted assets, increase capital, or a
    combination of both. If it is determined that additional capital
    is required in order to improve or maintain our capital ratios,
    we may accomplish this through the issuance of additional common
    stock.


 


    The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or
    securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or
    that represent the right to receive common stock, or the
    exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to
    existing common shareholders. Shareholders of our common stock
    have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their
    pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series
    and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in
    increased dilution to existing shareholders. The market price of
    our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of
    our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable
    for common stock in anticipation of such sales.


 



    The value
    of certain investment securities is volatile and future declines
    or
    other-than-temporary
    impairments could have a materially adverse affect on our future
    earnings and regulatory capital.


 


    Continued volatility in the market value for certain of our
    investment securities, whether caused by changes in market
    perceptions of credit risk, as reflected in the expected market
    yield of the security, or actual defaults in the portfolio could
    result in significant fluctuations in the value of the
    securities. This could have a material adverse impact on our
    accumulated other comprehensive income and shareholders’
    equity depending on the direction of the fluctuations.
    Furthermore, future downgrades or defaults in these securities
    could result in future classifications as other than temporarily
    impaired. This could have a material impact on our future
    earnings, although the impact on shareholders’ equity will
    be offset by any amount already included in other comprehensive
    income for securities where we have recorded temporary
    impairment.


 



    Changes
    in interest rates could negatively impact our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest
    income, which is the difference between interest earned on
    interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and
    interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits
    and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many
    factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic
    and international economic and political conditions. Conditions
    such as inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, and
    other factors beyond our control may also affect interest rates.
    If our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly
    than interest-bearing liabilities in a declining interest rate
    environment, net interest income could be adversely impacted.
    Likewise, if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more
    quickly than interest-earnings assets in a rising interest rate
    environment, net interest income could be adversely impacted.


 


    Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans,
    securities, and other assets, including retained interests in
    securitizations, mortgage and non-mortgage servicing rights and
    assets under management. A portion of our earnings results from
    transactional income. Examples of transactional income include
    trust income, brokerage income, gain on sales of loans and other
    real estate owned. This type of income can vary significantly
    from
    quarter-to-quarter
    and
    year-to-year
    based on a number of different factors, including the interest
    rate environment. An increase in interest rates that adversely
    affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or
    interest on loans and leases may lead to an increase in
    nonperforming assets and a reduction of income recognized, which
    could have a material, adverse effect on our results of
    operations and cash flows. When we decide to stop accruing
    interest on a loan, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest
    receivable, which decreases interest income. Subsequently, we
    continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as
    interest expense, without any interest income to offset the
    associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of
    loans on nonaccrual status could have an adverse impact on net
    interest income.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    Although fluctuations in market interest rates are neither
    completely predictable nor controllable, our Market Risk
    Committee (MRC) meets periodically to monitor our interest rate
    sensitivity position and oversee our financial risk management
    by establishing policies and operating limits. For further
    discussion, see the Market Risk — “Interest Rate
    Risk” section in Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If short-term
    interest rates remain at their historically low levels for a
    prolonged period, and assuming longer-term interest rates fall
    further, we could experience net interest margin compression as
    our interest-earning assets would continue to reprice downward
    while our interest-bearing liability rates, especially customer
    deposit rates, could remain at current levels.


 




    
    



    
    (3)  

    
    Liquidity
    Risks:





 



    If the
    Bank or holding company were unable to borrow funds through
    access to capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash
    flow requirements of our depositors, creditors, and borrowers,
    or the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and
    other corporate activities.


 


    Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely
    basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to
    make loans and leases and to repay deposit liabilities as they
    become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and
    limits are established by the board of directors, with operating
    limits set by MRC, based upon the ratio of loans to deposits and
    percentage of assets funded with non-core or wholesale funding.
    The Bank’s MRC regularly monitors the overall liquidity
    position of the Bank and the parent company to ensure that
    various alternative strategies exist to cover unanticipated
    events that could affect liquidity. MRC also establishes
    policies and monitors guidelines to diversify the Bank’s
    wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one
    market source. Wholesale funding sources include Federal funds
    purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core
    deposits, and medium- and long-term debt, which includes a
    domestic bank note program and a Euronote program. The Bank is
    also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati, Ohio
    (FHLB), which provides funding through advances to members that
    are collateralized with mortgage-related assets.


 


    We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a
    secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of
    liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources
    include the sale or securitization of loans, the ability to
    acquire additional national market, non-core deposits, issuance
    of additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances,
    the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred
    or common securities in public or private transactions. The Bank
    also can borrow from the Federal Reserve’s discount window.


 


    Starting in the middle of 2007, there has been significant
    turmoil and volatility in worldwide financial markets which is,
    at present, moderating. These conditions have resulted in a
    disruption in the liquidity of financial markets, and could
    directly impact us to the extent we need to access capital
    markets to raise funds to support our business and overall
    liquidity position. This situation could affect the cost of such
    funds or our ability to raise such funds. If we were unable to
    access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be
    unable to meet customers’ needs, which could adversely
    impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital. We may, from
    time to time, consider opportunistically retiring our
    outstanding securities, including our subordinated debt, trust
    preferred securities and preferred shares in privately
    negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common
    shares. This could adversely affect our liquidity position. For
    further discussion, see the “Liquidity Risk” section.


 



    The OCC
    has imposed dividend payment and other restrictions on the Bank,
    which could impact our ability to pay dividends to shareholders
    or repurchase stock. Due to the losses that the Bank incurred in
    2009 and 2008, at December 31, 2009, the Bank could not
    declare and pay dividends to the holding company without
    regulatory approval.


 


    The OCC is the primary regulatory agency that examines the Bank,
    its subsidiaries, and their respective activities. Under certain
    circumstances, including any determination that the activities
    of the Bank or its subsidiaries constitute an unsafe and unsound
    banking practice, the OCC has the authority by statute to
    restrict the Bank’s ability to transfer assets, make
    shareholder distributions, and redeem preferred securities.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    Under applicable statutes and regulations, dividends by a
    national bank may be paid out of current or retained net
    profits, but a national bank is prohibited from declaring a cash
    dividend on shares of its common stock out of net profits until
    the surplus fund equals the amount of capital stock or, if the
    surplus fund does not equal the amount of capital stock, until
    certain amounts from net profits are transferred to the surplus
    fund. Moreover, the prior approval of the OCC is required for
    the payment of a dividend if the total of all dividends declared
    by a national bank in any calendar year would exceed the total
    of its net profits for the year combined with its net profits
    for the two preceding years, less any required transfers to
    surplus or a fund for the retirement of any preferred securities.


 


    We do not anticipate that the holding company will receive
    dividends from the Bank during 2010, as we build the Bank’s
    regulatory capital levels above our already
    “well-capitalized” level.


 


    Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory
    limitations if the Bank became “under-capitalized” for
    purposes of the OCC “prompt corrective action”
    regulations. “Under-capitalized” is currently defined
    as having a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%, a
    Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%, or a
    core capital, or leverage, ratio of less than 4.0%. If the Bank
    were unable to pay dividends to the parent company, it could
    impact our ability to pay dividends to shareholders or
    repurchase stock. Throughout 2009, the Bank was in compliance
    with all regulatory capital requirements and considered to be
    “well-capitalized.”


 


    For further discussion, see the “Parent Company
    Liquidity” section.


 




    
    



    
    (4)  

    
    Operational
    Risks:





 



    Legislative
    and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the
    current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry
    may significantly affect our financial condition, results of
    operation, liquidity, or stock price.


 


    Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial
    markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and
    political bodies placing increased focus on and scrutiny of the
    financial services industry. The U.S. Government has
    intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has
    been commonly referred to as the financial crisis. In addition
    to the U.S. Treasury Department’s CPP under the TARP
    announced in the fall of 2008 and the new Capital Assistance
    Program (CAP) announced in spring of 2009, the
    U.S. Government has taken steps that include enhancing the
    liquidity support available to financial institutions,
    establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily
    guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt
    issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. The
    U.S. Congress, through the Emergency Economic Stabilization
    Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
    2009, has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on
    the operations of financial services firms participating in the
    federal programs.


 


    These programs subject us, and other financial institutions that
    participate in them, to additional restrictions, oversight, and
    costs that may have an adverse impact on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, or the price of our common
    stock. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be
    introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further increase
    regulation of the financial services industry and impose
    restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms
    within the industry to conduct business consistent with
    historical practices, including as related to compensation,
    interest rates, the impact of bankruptcy proceedings on consumer
    real property mortgages, and otherwise. Federal and state
    regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their
    regulations
    and/or
    change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We
    cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future
    legislation, regulation, or its application. Compliance with
    such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may
    significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our
    internal business processes, negatively impact the
    recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, require us to
    increase our regulatory capital, and limit our ability to pursue
    business opportunities in an efficient manner.


 


    Recent legislative proposals in Congress could impact how we
    assess fees on deposit accounts for items and transactions that
    either overdraw an account or that are returned for
    nonsufficient funds. It is uncertain





    
    16



Table of Contents





    which, if any, of the changes in these proposals will be
    adopted. Additionally, on November 12, 2009, the Federal
    Reserve Board (the “Board”) issued its final rule
    under Regulation E regarding overdraft fees, which becomes
    effective for new accounts on July 1, 2010, and for
    existing accounts on August 15, 2010. This rule generally
    prohibits financial institutions from charging overdraft fees
    for ATM and one-time debit card transactions that overdraw
    consumer deposit accounts, unless the consumer “opts
    in” to having such overdrafts authorized and paid. This
    rule may be affected by the legislative proposals in Congress
    regarding overdraft fees. Thus, although the Board’s rule
    will impact the amount of overdraft fees we will be able to
    charge, we cannot currently predict whether either the
    Board’s rule or the legislative proposals in Congress will
    have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions.
    The Internal Revenue Service and other taxing jurisdictions may
    propose various adjustments to our previously filed tax returns.
    It is possible that the ultimate resolution of such proposed
    adjustments, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of
    operations in the period it occurs.


 


    The calculation of our provision for federal income taxes is
    complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. We have
    two accruals for income taxes: our income tax receivable
    represents the estimated amount currently due from the federal
    government, net of any reserve for potential audit issues, and
    is reported as a component of “accrued income and other
    assets” in our consolidated balance sheet; our deferred
    federal income tax asset or liability represents the estimated
    impact of temporary differences between how we recognize our
    assets and liabilities under GAAP, and how such assets and
    liabilities are recognized under federal tax code.


 


    In the ordinary course of business, we operate in various taxing
    jurisdictions and are subject to income and nonincome taxes. The
    effective tax rate is based in part on our interpretation of the
    relevant current tax laws. We believe the aggregate liabilities
    related to taxes are appropriately reflected in the consolidated
    financial statements. We review the appropriate tax treatment of
    all transactions taking into consideration statutory, judicial,
    and regulatory guidance in the context of our tax positions. In
    addition, we rely on various tax opinions, recent tax audits,
    and historical experience.


 


    From time to time, we engage in business transactions that may
    have an effect on our tax liabilities. Where appropriate, we
    have obtained opinions of outside experts and have assessed the
    relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment of
    business transactions taking into account statutory, judicial,
    and regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position.
    However, changes to our estimates of accrued taxes can occur due
    to changes in tax rates, implementation of new business
    strategies, resolution of issues with taxing authorities
    regarding previously taken tax positions and newly enacted
    statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance. Such changes could
    affect the amount of our accrued taxes and could be material to
    our financial position
    and/or
    results of operations.


 


    The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the
    U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state, city, and
    foreign jurisdictions. Federal income tax audits have been
    completed through 2005. In 2009, the IRS began the audit of our
    consolidated federal income tax returns for the tax years 2006
    and 2007. In addition, various state and other jurisdictions
    remain open to examination for tax years 2000 and forward.


 


    The Internal Revenue Service, State of Ohio, and other state tax
    officials have proposed adjustments to our previously filed tax
    returns. We believe that the tax positions taken by us related
    to such proposed adjustments were correct and supported by
    applicable statutes, regulations, and judicial authority, and
    intend to vigorously defend them. It is possible that the
    ultimate resolution of the proposed adjustments, if unfavorable,
    may be material to the results of operations in the period it
    occurs. However, although no assurances can be given, we believe
    that the resolution of these examinations will not, individually
    or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial position.


 


    The Franklin restructuring resulted in a $159.9 million net
    deferred tax asset equal to the amount of income and equity that
    was included in our operating results for the 2009 first
    quarter. While we believe that our position regarding the
    deferred tax asset and related income recognition is correct,
    that position could be subject to challenge.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    If our
    regulators deem it appropriate, they can take regulatory actions
    that could impact our ability to compete for new business,
    constrain our ability to fund our liquidity needs, and increase
    the cost of our services.


 


    Huntington and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision
    and regulation of various State and Federal regulators,
    including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the
    Federal Reserve, the FDIC, SEC, FINRA, and various state
    regulatory agencies. As such, Huntington is subject to a wide
    variety of laws and regulations, many of which are discussed in
    the “Regulatory Matters” section. As part of their
    supervisory process, which includes periodic examinations and
    continuous monitoring, the regulators have the authority to
    impose restrictions or conditions on our activities and the
    manner in which we manage the organization. These actions could
    impact the organization in a variety of ways, including
    subjecting us to monetary fines, restricting our ability to pay
    dividends, precluding mergers or acquisitions, limiting our
    ability to offer certain products or services, or imposing
    additional capital requirements.


 



    The
    resolution of significant pending litigation, if unfavorable,
    could have a material adverse affect on our results of
    operations for a particular period.


 


    Huntington faces legal risks in its businesses, and the volume
    of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in
    litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial
    institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or
    significant regulatory action against Huntington could have
    material adverse financial effects or cause significant
    reputational harm to Huntington, which in turn could seriously
    harm Huntington’s business prospects. As more fully
    described in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements, certain putative class actions and shareholder
    derivative actions were filed against Huntington, certain
    affiliated committees, and / or certain of its current
    or former officers and directors. At this time, it is not
    possible for management to assess the probability of an adverse
    outcome, or reasonably estimate the amount of any potential loss
    in connection with these lawsuits. Although no assurance can be
    given, based on information currently available, consultation
    with counsel, and available insurance coverage, management
    believes that the eventual outcome of these claims against us
    will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material
    adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results
    of operations. However, it is possible that the ultimate
    resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to
    the results of operations for a particular period.


 



    Huntington
    faces other significant operational risks.


 


    Huntington is exposed to many types of operational risk,
    including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk
    of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized
    transactions by employees or outsiders, or operational errors by
    employees, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those
    resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications
    systems. In addition, today’s threats to customer
    information and information systems are complex, more wide
    spread, continually emerging, and increasing at a rapid pace.
    Huntington continues to invest in better tools and processes in
    all key security areas, and monitors these threats with
    increased rigor and focus.


 


    Negative public opinion can result from Huntington’s actual
    or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including
    lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and
    from actions taken by government regulators and community
    organizations in response to those activities. Negative public
    opinion can adversely affect Huntington’s ability to
    attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and
    regulatory action.


 


    We establish and maintain systems of internal operational
    controls that provide us with timely and accurate information
    about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these
    systems have been designed to manage operational risk at
    appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures exist that are
    designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics,
    and business practices are followed. While we continually
    monitor and improve the system of internal controls, data
    processing systems, and corporate-wide processes and procedures,
    there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur.




    
    18



Table of Contents






    Failure
    to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting
    in the future could impair our ability to accurately and timely
    report its financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss
    of investor confidence and adversely affecting our business and
    stock price.


 


    Effective internal controls over financial reporting are
    necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent
    fraud. As a financial holding company, we are subject to
    regulation that focuses on effective internal controls and
    procedures. Management continually seeks to improve these
    controls and procedures.


 


    Management believes that our key internal controls over
    financial reporting are currently effective; however, such
    controls and procedures will be modified, supplemented, and
    changed from time to time as necessitated by our growth and in
    reaction to external events and developments. While Management
    will continue to assess our controls and procedures and take
    immediate action to remediate any future perceived gaps, there
    can be no guarantee of the effectiveness of these controls and
    procedures on an on-going basis. Any failure to maintain in the
    future an effective internal control environment could impact
    our ability to report its financial results on an accurate and
    timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of
    investor confidence, and adversely impact its business and stock
    price.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B