Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Risk
    Governance


 


    We use a multi-faceted approach to risk governance. It begins
    with the board of directors defining our risk appetite in
    aggregate as
    moderate-to-low.
    This does not preclude engagement in higher risk activities when
    we have the demonstrated expertise and control mechanisms to
    selectively manage higher risk. Rather, the definition is
    intended to represent a directional average of where we want our
    overall risk to be managed.


 


    Two board committees oversee implementation of this desired risk
    profile: The Audit Committee and the Risk Oversight Committee.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Audit Committee is principally involved with overseeing the
    integrity of financial statements, providing oversight of the
    internal audit department, and selecting our external auditors.
    Our chief auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.




 



     
        • 

    
    The Risk Oversight Committee supervises our risk management
    processes which primarily cover credit, market, liquidity,
    operational, and compliance risks. It also approves the charters
    of executive management committees, sets risk limits on certain
    risk measures (e.g., economic value of equity), receives results
    of the risk self-assessment process, and routinely engages
    management in dialogues pertaining to key risk issues. Our
    credit review executive reports directly to the Risk Oversight
    Committee.





 


    Both committees are comprised of independent directors and
    routinely hold executive sessions with our key officers engaged
    in accounting and risk management.


 


    On a periodic basis, the two committees meet in joint session to
    cover matters relevant to both such as the construct and
    adequacy of the ACL, which is reviewed quarterly.


 


    We maintain a philosophy that each colleague is responsible for
    risk. This is manifested by the design of a risk management
    organization that places emphasis on risk-ownership by
    risk-takers. We believe that by placing ownership of risk within
    its related business segment, attention to, and accountability
    for, risk is heightened.


 


    Further, through its Compensation Committee, the board of
    directors seeks to ensure its system of rewards is
    risk-sensitive and aligns the interests of management,
    creditors, and shareholders. We utilize a variety of
    compensation-related tools to induce appropriate behavior,
    including equity deferrals, holdbacks, clawback provisions, and
    the right to terminate compensation plans at any time when
    undesirable outcomes may result.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    Management has introduced a number of steps to help ensure an
    aggregate
    moderate-to-low
    risk appetite is maintained. Foremost is a quarterly,
    comprehensive self-assessment process in which each business
    segment produces an analysis of its risks and the strength of
    its risk controls. The segment analyses are combined with
    assessments by our risk management organization of major risk
    sectors (e.g., credit, market, operational, reputational,
    compliance, etc.) to produce an overall enterprise risk
    assessment. Outcomes of the process include a determination of
    the quality of the overall control process, the direction of
    risk, and our position compared to the defined risk appetite.


 


    Management also utilizes a wide series of metrics (key risk
    indicators) to monitor risk positions throughout the Company. In
    general, a range for each metric is established that identifies
    a
    moderate-to-low
    position. Deviations from the range will indicate if the risk
    being measured is moving into a high position, which may then
    necessitate corrective action.


 


    In 2010, we enhanced our process of risk-based capital
    attribution. Our economic capital model will be upgraded and
    integrated into a more robust system of stress testing in 2011.
    We believe this tool will further enhance our ability to manage
    to the defined risk appetite. Our board level Capital
    Planning Committee will monitor and react to output from the
    integrated modeling process.


 


    We also have three other executive level committees to manage
    risk: ALCO, Credit Policy and Strategy, and Risk Management.
    Each committee focuses on specific categories of risk and is
    supported by a series of subcommittees that are tactical in
    nature. We believe this structure helps ensure appropriate
    elevation of issues and overall communication of strategies.


 


    Huntington utilizes three levels of defense with regard to risk
    management: (1) business segments, (2) corporate risk
    management, (3) internal audit and credit review. To induce
    greater ownership of risk within its business segments, segment
    risk officers have been embedded to identify and monitor risk,
    elevate and remediate issues, establish controls, perform
    self-testing, and oversee the quarterly self-assessment process.
    Segment risk officers report directly to the related segment
    manager with a dotted line to the Chief Risk Officer. Corporate
    Risk Management establishes policies, sets operating limits,
    reviews new or modified products/processes, ensures consistency
    and quality assurance within the segments, and produces the
    enterprise risk assessment. The Chief Risk Officer has
    significant input into the design and outcome of incentive
    compensation plans as they apply to risk. Internal Audit and
    Credit Review provide additional assurance that risk-related
    functions are operating as intended.


 


    Huntington believes it has provided a sound risk governance
    foundation to support the Bank. Our process will be subject to
    continuous improvement and enhancement. Our objective is to have
    strong risk management practices and capabilities.


 



    Risk
    Overview


 


    We, like other financial companies, are subject to a number of
    risks that may adversely affect our financial condition or
    results of operation, many of which are outside of our direct
    control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while
    optimizing returns. Among the risks assumed are: (1) credit
    risk, which is the risk of loss due to loan and lease
    customers or other counterparties not being able to meet their
    financial obligations under agreed upon terms, (2) market
    risk, which is the risk of loss due to changes in the market
    value of assets and liabilities due to changes in market
    interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, and
    credit spreads, (3) liquidity risk, which is the risk of
    loss due to the possibility that funds may not be available to
    satisfy current or future commitments based on external macro
    market issues, investor and customer perception of financial
    strength, and events unrelated to us such as war, terrorism, or
    financial institution market specific issues, (4) operational
    risk, which is the risk of loss due to human error,
    inadequate or failed internal systems and controls, violations
    of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed
    practices, or ethical standards, and external influences such as
    market conditions, fraudulent activities, disasters, and
    security risks, and (5) compliance risk, which exposes us
    to money penalties, enforcement actions or other sanctions as a
    result of nonconformance with laws, rules, and regulations that
    apply to the financial services industry.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    We also expend considerable effort to contain risk which
    emanates from execution of our business strategies and work
    relentlessly to protect the Company’s reputation. Strategic
    and reputational risks do not easily lend themselves to
    traditional methods of measurement. Rather, we closely monitor
    them through processes such as new
    product / initiative reviews, frequent financial
    performance reviews, employee and client surveys, monitoring
    market intelligence, periodic discussions between management and
    our board, and other such efforts.


 


    In addition to the other information included or incorporated by
    reference into this report, readers should carefully consider
    that the following important factors, among others, could
    negatively impact our business, future results of operations,
    and future cash flows materially.


 



    Credit
    Risks:


 




    
    



    
    1.  

    
    Our ACL
    may prove inadequate or be negatively affected by credit risk
    exposures which could materially adversely affect our net income
    and capital.





 


    Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers.
    Our ACL of $1.3 billion at December 31, 2010,
    represents Management’s estimate of probable losses
    inherent in our loan and lease portfolio as well as our unfunded
    loan commitments and letters of credit. We periodically review
    our ACL for adequacy. In doing so, we consider economic
    conditions and trends, collateral values, and credit quality
    indicators, such as past charge-off experience, levels of past
    due loans, and nonperforming assets. There is no certainty that
    our ACL will be adequate over time to cover losses in the
    portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the
    economy, market conditions, or events adversely affecting
    specific customers, industries, or markets. If the credit
    quality of our customer base materially decreases, if the risk
    profile of a market, industry, or group of customers changes
    materially, or if the ACL is not adequate, our net income and
    capital could be materially adversely affected which, in turn,
    could have a material negative adverse affect on our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    In addition, bank regulators periodically review our ACL and may
    require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses
    or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our ACL or loan charge-offs
    as required by these regulatory authorities could have a
    material adverse affect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 




    
    



    
    2.  

    
    A
    sustained weakness or further weakening in economic conditions
    could materially adversely affect our business.





 


    Our performance could be negatively affected to the extent that
    further weaknesses in business and economic conditions have
    direct or indirect material adverse impacts on us, our
    customers, and our counterparties. These conditions could result
    in one or more of the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and
    services offered by us;




 



     
        • 

    
    A decrease in customer savings generally and in the demand for
    savings and investment products offered by us; and




 



     
        • 

    
    An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who
    become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws, or
    default on their loans or other obligations to us.





 


    An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies, or
    defaults could result in a higher level of NPAs, NCOs, provision
    for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for
    sale. The markets we serve are dependent on industrial and
    manufacturing businesses and thus are particularly vulnerable to
    adverse changes in economic conditions affecting these sectors.



 




    
    



    
    3.  

    
    Further
    declines in home values or reduced levels of home sales in our
    markets could result in higher delinquencies, greater
    charge-offs, and increased losses on the sale of foreclosed real
    estate in future periods.





 


    Like all financial institutions, we are subject to the effects
    of any economic downturn. There has been a slowdown in the
    housing market across our geographic footprint, reflecting
    declining prices and excess





    
    13



Table of Contents





    inventories of houses to be sold. These developments have had,
    and further declines may continue to have, a negative effect on
    our financial conditions and results of operations. At
    December 31, 2010, we had:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    $7.7 billion of home equity loans and lines, representing
    20% of total loans and leases.




 



     
        • 

    
    $4.5 billion in residential real estate loans, representing
    12% of total loans and leases.




 



     
        • 

    
    $4.7 billion of Federal Agency mortgage-backed securities,
    $0.1 billion of private label CMOs, and $0.1 billion
    of Alt-A mortgage-backed securities that could be negatively
    affected by a decline in home values.




 



     
        • 

    
    $0.3 billion of bank owned life insurance investments
    primarily in mortgage-backed securities.





 


    Because of the decline in home values, some of our borrowers
    have mortgages greater than the value of their homes. The
    decline in home values, coupled with the weakened economy, has
    increased short sales and foreclosures. The reduced levels of
    home sales have had a materially adverse affect on the prices
    achieved on the sale of foreclosed properties. Continued decline
    in home values may escalate these problems resulting in higher
    delinquencies, greater charge-offs, and increased losses on the
    sale of foreclosed real estate in future periods.


 



    Market
    Risks:



 




    
    



    
    1.  

    
    Changes
    in interest rates could reduce our net interest income, reduce
    transactional income, and negatively impact the value of our
    loans, securities, and other assets. This could have a material
    adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition, results
    of operations, and capital.





 


    Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest
    income, which is the difference between interest earned on
    interest earning assets (such as investments and loans) and
    interest paid on interest bearing liabilities (such as deposits
    and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many
    factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic
    and international economic and political conditions. Conditions
    such as inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, money
    supply, and other factors beyond our control may also affect
    interest rates. If our interest earning assets mature or reprice
    more quickly than interest bearing liabilities in a declining
    interest rate environment, net interest income could be
    materially adversely impacted. Likewise, if interest bearing
    liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning
    assets in a rising interest rate environment, net interest
    income could be adversely impacted.


 


    At December 31, 2010, $2.6 billion, or 13%, of our
    commercial loan portfolio, as measured by the aggregate
    outstanding principal balances, was fixed-rate loans and the
    remainder was adjustable-rate loans. As interest rates rise, the
    payment by the borrower rises to the extent permitted by the
    terms of the loan, and the increased payment increases the
    potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of
    the underlying property may be adversely affected by higher
    interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there
    may be an increase in prepayments on the loans underlying our
    participation interests as borrowers refinance their mortgages
    at lower interest rates.


 


    Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans,
    securities, and other assets, including mortgage and nonmortgage
    servicing rights and assets under management. Examples of
    transactional income include trust income, brokerage income, and
    gain on sales of loans. This type of income can vary
    significantly from
    quarter-to-quarter
    and
    year-to-year
    based on a number of different factors, including the interest
    rate environment. An increase in interest rates that adversely
    affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or
    interest on loans and leases may lead to an increase in NPAs and
    a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. When
    we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued but
    unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income.
    Subsequently, we continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which
    is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to
    offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the
    amount of NPAs would have an adverse impact on net interest
    income.


 


    Rising interest rates will result in a decline in value of our
    fixed-rate debt securities and cash flow hedging derivatives
    portfolio. The unrealized losses resulting from holding these
    securities and financial





    
    14



Table of Contents





    instruments would be recognized in OCI and reduce total
    shareholders’ equity. Unrealized losses do not negatively
    impact our regulatory capital ratios; however Tangible Common
    Equity and the associated ratios would be reduced. If debt
    securities in an unrealized loss position are sold, such losses
    become realized and will reduce Tier I and Total Risk-based
    Capital regulatory ratios. If cash flow hedging derivatives are
    terminated, the impact is reflected in earnings over the life of
    the instrument and reduces Tier I and Total Risk-based
    Capital regulatory ratios. Somewhat offsetting these negative
    impacts to OCI in a rising interest rate environment, is a
    decrease in pension and other post-retirement obligations.


 


    If short-term interest rates remain at their historically low
    levels for a prolonged period, and assuming longer term interest
    rates fall further, we could experience net interest margin
    compression as our interest earning assets would continue to
    reprice downward while our interest bearing liability rates
    could fail to decline in tandem. This would have a material
    adverse effect on our net interest income and our results of
    operations.



 




    
    



    
    2.  

    
    The value
    of our Alt-A mortgage-backed, Pooled-Trust-Preferred and Private
    Label CMO investment securities are volatile and future
    valuation declines or
    other-than-temporary
    impairments could have a materially adverse affect on our future
    earnings and regulatory capital.





 


    Continued volatility in the market value for these securities in
    our investment securities portfolio, whether caused by changes
    in market perceptions of credit risk, as reflected in the
    expected market yield of the security, or actual defaults in the
    portfolio, could result in significant fluctuations in the value
    of these securities. This could have a material adverse impact
    on our accumulated OCI and shareholders’ equity depending
    on the direction of the fluctuations. Furthermore, future
    downgrades or defaults in these securities could result in
    future classifications as
    other-than-temporarily
    impaired and limit our ability to sell these securities at
    reasonable prices. This could have a material negative impact on
    our future earnings, although the impact on shareholders’
    equity would be offset by any amount already included in OCI for
    securities where we have recorded temporary impairment. At
    December 31, 2010, the fair value of these securities was
    $284.6 million.


 




    
    



    
    3.  

    
    An
    issuance of additional capital would have a dilutive effect on
    the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect
    the market price of our common stock.





 


    We and the Bank are highly regulated, and we, as well as our
    regulators, continue to regularly perform a variety of capital
    analyses, including the preparation of stress case scenarios. As
    a result of those assessments, we could determine, or our
    regulators could require us, to raise additional capital in the
    future. Any such capital raise could include, among other
    things, the potential issuance of additional common equity to
    the public, or the additional conversions of our existing
    Series A Preferred Stock to common equity. There could also
    be market perceptions that we need to raise additional capital,
    and regardless of the outcome of any stress test or other stress
    case analysis, such perceptions could have an adverse effect on
    the price of our common stock.


 


    Furthermore, in order to improve our capital ratios above our
    already Well-capitalized levels, we can decrease the amount of
    our risk-weighted assets, increase capital, or a combination of
    both. If it is determined that additional capital is required in
    order to improve or maintain our capital ratios, we may
    accomplish this through the issuance of additional common stock.


 


    The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or
    securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or
    that represent the right to receive common stock, or the
    exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to
    existing common shareholders. Shareholders of our common stock
    have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their
    pro-rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series
    and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in
    increased dilution to existing shareholders. The market price of
    our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of
    our common stock or securities convertible into, or exchangeable
    for, common stock in anticipation of such sales.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    Liquidity
    Risks:



 




    
    



    
    1.  

    
    If we are
    unable to borrow funds through access to capital markets, we may
    not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our
    depositors, creditors, and borrowers, or have the operating cash
    needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate
    activities.





 


    Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely
    basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Bank is used to
    make loans and leases and to repay deposit liabilities as they
    become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and
    limits are established by our board of directors, with operating
    limits set by Management. Wholesale funding sources include
    federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase
    agreements, noncore deposits, and medium- and long-term debt,
    which includes a domestic bank note program and a Euronote
    program. The Bank is also a member of the FHLB, which provides
    funding through advances to members that are collateralized with
    mortgage-related assets.


 


    We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a
    secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of
    liquidity available to us should they be needed. These sources
    include the sale or securitization of loans, the ability to
    acquire additional national market noncore deposits, issuance of
    additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the
    issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or
    common securities in public or private transactions. The Bank
    also can borrow from the Federal Reserve’s discount window.


 


    Starting in the middle of 2007, significant turmoil and
    volatility in worldwide financial markets increased, though
    current volatility has declined. Such disruptions in the
    liquidity of financial markets directly impact us to the extent
    we need to access capital markets to raise funds to support our
    business and overall liquidity position. This situation could
    affect the cost of such funds or our ability to raise such
    funds. If we were unable to access any of these funding sources
    when needed, we might be unable to meet customers’ needs,
    which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of
    operations, cash flows, and level of regulatory-qualifying
    capital. We may, from time to time, consider opportunistically
    retiring our outstanding securities in privately negotiated or
    open market transactions for cash or common shares. This could
    adversely affect our liquidity position.



 




    
    



    
    2.  

    
    Due to
    the losses that the Bank incurred in 2008 and 2009, at
    December 31, 2010, the Bank and its subsidiaries could not
    declare and pay dividends to the holding company, any subsidiary
    of the holding company outside the Bank’s consolidated
    group, or any security holder outside the Bank’s
    consolidated group, without regulatory approval.





 


    Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary
    source of funds for the payment of dividends to our
    shareholders. Under applicable statutes and regulations, a
    national bank may not declare and pay dividends in any year in
    excess of an amount equal to the sum of the total of the net
    income of the bank for that year and the retained net income of
    the bank for the preceding two years, minus the sum of any
    transfers required by the OCC and any transfers required to be
    made to a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock, unless
    the OCC approves the declaration and payment of dividends in
    excess of such amount. Due to the losses that the Bank incurred
    in 2008 and 2009, at December 31, 2010, the Bank and its
    subsidiaries could not declare and pay dividends to the parent
    company, any subsidiary of the parent company outside the
    Bank’s consolidated group, or any security holder outside
    the Bank’s consolidated group, without regulatory approval.
    Since the first quarter of 2008, the Bank has requested and
    received OCC approval each quarter to pay periodic dividends to
    shareholders outside the Bank’s consolidated group on the
    preferred and common stock of its REIT and capital financing
    subsidiaries to the extent necessary to maintain their REIT
    status. A wholly-owned nonbank subsidiary of the parent company
    owns a portion of the preferred shares of the REIT and capital
    financing subsidiaries. Outside of the REIT and capital
    financing subsidiary dividends, we do not anticipate that the
    Bank will declare dividends during 2011.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    Operational
    Risks:


 




    
    



    
    1.  

    
    The
    resolution of significant pending litigation, if unfavorable,
    could have a material adverse affect on our results of
    operations for a particular period.





 


    We face legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims
    and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and
    regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain
    high. Substantial legal liability against us could have material
    adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm
    to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business
    prospects. As more fully described in Note 22 of the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements, certain putative class
    actions and shareholder derivative actions were filed against
    us, certain affiliated committees,
    and/or
    certain of our current or former officers and directors. These
    cases allege violations of the securities laws, breaches of
    fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, abuse of control,
    gross mismanagement, unjust enrichment, and violations of
    Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) laws in
    connection with our acquisition of Sky Financial, the
    transactions between Franklin and us, and the financial and
    other disclosures related to these transactions. Although no
    assurance can be given, based on information currently
    available, consultation with counsel, and available insurance
    coverage, we believe that the eventual outcome of these claims
    against us will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position
    or results of operations. However, it is possible that the
    ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be
    material to the results of operations for a particular reporting
    period.


 




    
    



    
    2.  

    
    We face
    significant operational risks which could lead to expensive
    litigation and loss of confidence by our customers, regulators,
    and capital markets.





 


    We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including
    reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud
    or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by
    employees or outsiders, or operational errors by employees,
    including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting
    from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.
    In addition, today’s threats to customer information and
    information systems are complex, more wide spread, continually
    emerging, and increasing at a rapid pace. Although we establish
    and maintain systems of internal operational controls that
    provide us with timely and accurate information about our level
    of operational risks, continue to invest in better tools and
    processes in all key areas, and monitor threats with increased
    rigor and focus, these operational risks could lead to expensive
    litigation and loss of confidence by our customers, regulators,
    and the capital markets.


 


    Moreover, negative public opinion can result from our actual or
    alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending
    practices, corporate governance, and acquisitions and from
    actions taken by government regulators and community
    organizations in response to those activities. Negative public
    opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain
    customers and can also expose us to litigation and regulatory
    action. Relative to acquisitions, we cannot predict if, or when,
    we will be able to identify and attract acquisition candidates
    or make acquisitions on favorable terms. We incur risks and
    challenges associated with the integration of acquired
    institutions in a timely and efficient manner, and we cannot
    guarantee that we will be successful in retaining existing
    customer relationships or achieving anticipated operating
    efficiencies.



 




    
    



    
    3.  

    
    We are
    subject to routine on-going tax examinations by the IRS and by
    various other jurisdictions, including the states of Ohio,
    Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and
    Illinois. The IRS, Ohio, and Kentucky have proposed various
    adjustments to our previously filed tax returns. It is possible
    that the ultimate resolution of all proposed and future
    adjustments, if unfavorable, may be materially adverse to the
    results of operations in the period it occurs.





 


    The calculation of our provision for federal income taxes is
    complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. In the
    ordinary course of business, we operate in various taxing
    jurisdictions and are subject to income and nonincome taxes. The
    effective tax rate is based in part on our interpretation of the
    relevant current tax laws. We believe the aggregate liabilities
    related to taxes are appropriately reflected in the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    From
    time-to-time,
    we engage in business transactions that may have an effect on
    our tax liabilities. Where appropriate, we have obtained
    opinions of outside experts and have assessed the relative
    merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment of business
    transactions taking into account statutory, judicial, and
    regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position.


 


    We file income tax returns with the IRS and various state, city,
    and foreign jurisdictions. Federal income tax audits have been
    completed through 2007. In addition, various state and other
    jurisdictions remain open to examination, including Ohio,
    Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and
    Illinois.


 


    The IRS and other taxing jurisdictions, including the states of
    Ohio and Kentucky, have proposed adjustments to our previously
    filed tax returns. We do not agree with these adjustments and
    believe that the tax positions taken by us related to such
    proposed adjustments were correct and supported by applicable
    statutes, regulations, and judicial authority, and we intend to
    vigorously defend our positions. Appropriate tax reserves have
    been established in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes and
    ASC 450, Contingencies. However, it is also possible that
    the ultimate resolution of the proposed adjustments, if
    unfavorable, may result in penalties and interest. Such
    adjustments, including any penalties and interest, may be
    material to our results of operations in the period such
    adjustments occur and increase our effective tax rate.
    Nevertheless, although no assurances can be given, we believe
    that the resolution of these examinations will not, individually
    or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated financial position in future periods. For further
    discussion, see Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.


 


    The Franklin restructuring in the 2009 first quarter resulted in
    a $159.9 million net deferred tax asset equal to the amount
    of income and equity that was included in our operating results
    for the 2009 first quarter. During the 2010 first quarter, a
    $38.2 million net tax benefit was recognized, primarily
    reflecting the increase in the net deferred tax asset relating
    to the assets acquired from the March 31, 2009 Franklin
    restructuring. In the 2010 fourth quarter, we entered into an
    asset monetization transaction that generated a tax benefit of
    $63.6 million. While we believe that our positions
    regarding the deferred tax asset and related income recognition
    is correct, the positions could be subject to challenge.



 




    
    



    
    4.  

    
    Failure
    to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting
    in the future could impair our ability to accurately and timely
    report our financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss
    of investor confidence and adversely affecting our business and
    stock price.





 


    Effective internal controls over financial reporting are
    necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent
    fraud. As a financial holding company, we are subject to
    regulation that focuses on effective internal controls and
    procedures. Management continually seeks to improve these
    controls and procedures.


 


    We believe that our key internal controls over financial
    reporting are currently effective; however, such controls and
    procedures will be modified, supplemented, and changed from
    time-to-time
    as necessitated by our growth and in reaction to external events
    and developments. While we will continue to assess our controls
    and procedures and take immediate action to remediate any future
    perceived gaps, there can be no guarantee of the effectiveness
    of these controls and procedures on an on-going basis. Any
    failure to maintain, in the future, an effective internal
    control environment could impact our ability to report our
    financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could
    result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confidence, and
    adversely impact our business and stock price.


 



    Compliance
    Risks:



 




    
    



    
    1.  

    
    If our
    regulators deem it appropriate, they can take regulatory actions
    that could materially adversely impact our ability to compete
    for new business, constrain our ability to fund our liquidity
    needs or pay dividends, and increase the cost of our
    services.





 


    We are subject to the supervision and regulation of various
    state and Federal regulators, including the OCC, Federal
    Reserve, FDIC, SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and
    various state regulatory agencies. As such, we are subject to a
    wide variety of laws and regulations, many of which are
    discussed in the Regulatory Matters section. As part of their
    supervisory process, which includes periodic examinations and





    
    18



Table of Contents





    continuous monitoring, the regulators have the authority to
    impose restrictions or conditions on our activities and the
    manner in which we manage the organization. These actions could
    impact the organization in a variety of ways, including
    subjecting us to monetary fines, restricting our ability to pay
    dividends, precluding mergers or acquisitions, limiting our
    ability to offer certain products or services, or imposing
    additional capital requirements.



 




    
    



    
    2.  

    
    Legislative
    and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the
    current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry
    may materially adversely affect us by increasing our costs,
    adding complexity in doing business, impeding the efficiency of
    our internal business processes, negatively impacting the
    recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, requiring us
    to increase our regulatory capital, limiting our ability to
    pursue business opportunities, and otherwise materially
    adversely impacting our financial condition, results of
    operation, liquidity, or stock price.





 


    Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial
    markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and
    political bodies placing increased focus on and scrutiny of the
    financial services industry. The U.S. Government has
    intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has
    been commonly referred to as the financial crisis. In addition
    to the previously enacted governmental assistance programs
    designed to stabilize and stimulate the U.S. economy,
    recent economic, political, and market conditions have led to
    numerous programs and proposals to reform the financial
    regulatory system and prevent future crises.


 


    On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law.
    The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the
    financial services industry within the United States,
    establishes the new federal CFPB, and requires the bureau and
    other federal agencies to implement many new and significant
    rules and regulations. At this time, it is difficult to predict
    the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules
    and regulations will impact our business. Compliance with these
    new laws and regulations may result in additional costs, which
    could be significant, and may have a material and adverse effect
    on our results of operations.


 


    In addition, international banking industry regulators have
    largely agreed upon significant changes in the regulation of
    capital required to be held by banks and their holding companies
    to support their businesses. The new international rules, known
    as Basel III, generally increase the capital required to be held
    and narrow the types of instruments which will qualify as
    providing appropriate capital and impose a new liquidity
    measurement. The Basel III requirements are complex and
    will be phased in over many years.


 


    The Basel III rules do not apply to U.S. banks or
    holding companies automatically. Among other things, the
    Dodd-Frank Act requires U.S. regulators to reform the
    system under which the safety and soundness of banks and other
    financial institutions, individually and systemically, are
    regulated. That reform effort will include the regulation of
    capital and liquidity. It is not known whether or to what extent
    the U.S. regulators will incorporate elements of
    Basel III into the reformed U.S. regulatory system,
    but it is expected that the U.S. reforms will include an
    increase in capital requirements, a narrowing of what qualifies
    as appropriate capital, and impose a new liquidity measurement.
    One likely effect of a significant tightening of
    U.S. capital requirements would be to increase our cost of
    capital, among other things. Any permanent significant increase
    in our cost of capital could have significant adverse impacts on
    the profitability of many of our products, the types of products
    we could offer profitably, our overall profitability, and our
    overall growth opportunities, among other things. Although most
    financial institutions would be affected, these business impacts
    could be felt unevenly, depending upon the business and product
    mix of each institution. Other potential effects could include
    less ability to pay cash dividends and repurchase our common
    shares, higher dilution of common shareholders, and a higher
    risk that we might fall below regulatory capital thresholds in
    an adverse economic cycle.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B