Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    This section describes circumstances or events that could have a
    negative effect on our financial results or operations or that
    could change, for the worse, existing trends in our businesses.
    The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events
    described below could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on
    the trading prices of our common stock. The risks and
    uncertainties described in this
    Form 10-K
    are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and
    uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we
    currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our
    businesses and operations.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 



    A
    significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations are
    located in higher-cost locations, placing us at a product cost
    disadvantage to our competitors who have a higher percentage of
    their manufacturing operations in lower-cost, offshore
    locations.


 


    Though there has been a general industry-wide migration of
    manufacturing operations to lower-cost locations, such as
    Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Asia, a significant
    portion of our textile manufacturing operations are still
    located in higher-cost locations, such as the United States. In
    addition, our competitors generally source or produce a greater
    portion of their textiles from regions with lower costs than us,
    placing us at a cost disadvantage. Our competitors are able to
    exert pricing pressure on us by using their manufacturing cost
    savings to reduce prices of their products, while maintaining
    higher margins than us. To remain competitive, we must, among
    other things, react to these pricing pressures by lowering our
    prices from time to time. We will continue to experience pricing
    pressure and remain at a cost disadvantage to our competitors
    unless we are able to successfully migrate a greater portion of
    our textile manufacturing operations



    
    14



Table of Contents




    to lower-cost locations. However, we cannot guarantee that our
    migration plans, as executed, will relieve these pricing
    pressures and our cost disadvantage.


 



    We are in
    the process of relocating a significant portion of our textile
    manufacturing operations to overseas locations and this process
    involves significant costs and the risk of operational
    interruption.


 


    We currently are relocating and expect to continue to relocate a
    significant portion of our textile manufacturing operations to
    locations in Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Asia. The
    process of relocating significant portions of our textile
    manufacturing and production operations has resulted in and will
    continue to result in significant costs. As further plans are
    developed and approved by management and our board of directors,
    we expect to recognize additional restructuring costs to
    eliminate duplicative functions within the organization and
    transition a significant portion of our manufacturing capacity
    to lower-cost locations. As a result of these efforts, we expect
    to incur approximately $250 million in restructuring and
    related charges over the next three years of which approximately
    half is expected to be noncash. This process also may result in
    operational interruptions, which may have an adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations and financial condition.


 



    The
    integration of our information technology systems is complex,
    and any delay or problem with this integration may cause serious
    disruption or harm to our business.


 


    As part of our efforts to consolidate our operations, we are in
    the process of integrating currently unrelated information
    technology systems across our company which has resulted in
    operational inefficiencies and in some cases increased our
    costs. This process involves the replacement of eight
    independent systems environments running on different technology
    platforms with a unified enterprise system that will integrate
    all of our departments and functions onto common software that
    runs off a single database. We are subject to the risk that we
    will not be able to absorb the level of systems change, commit
    the necessary resources or focus the management attention
    necessary for the implementation to succeed. Many key strategic
    initiatives of major business functions, such as our supply
    chain and our finance operations, depend on advanced
    capabilities enabled by the new systems and if we fail to
    properly execute or if we miss critical deadlines in the
    implementation of this initiative, we could experience serious
    disruption and harm to our business.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, and
    our market share and results of operations could be adversely
    affected if we fail to compete effectively in the
    future.


 


    The apparel essentials market is highly competitive and evolving
    rapidly. Competition is generally based upon price, brand name
    recognition, product quality, selection, service and purchasing
    convenience. Our businesses face competition today from other
    large corporations and foreign manufacturers. These competitors
    include Berskhire Hathaway Inc. through its subsidiary Fruit of
    the Loom, Inc., Warnaco Group Inc., VF Corporation (which
    in January 2007 agreed to sell its intimate apparel business to
    Fruit of the Loom, Inc.) and Maidenform Brands, Inc. in our
    innerwear business segment and Gildan Activewear, Inc. and
    Berkshire Hathaway Inc. through its subsidiaries Russell
    Corporation and Fruit of the Loom, Inc. in our outerwear
    business segment. We also compete with many small companies
    across all of our business segments. Additionally, department
    stores and other retailers, including many of our customers,
    market and sell apparel essentials products under private labels
    that compete directly with our brands. These customers may buy
    goods that are manufactured by others, which represents a lost
    business opportunity for us, or they may sell private label
    products manufactured by us, which have significantly lower
    gross margins than our branded products. We also face intense
    competition from specialty stores that sell private label
    apparel not manufactured by us, such as Victoria’s Secret,
    Old Navy and The Gap. Increased competition may result in a loss
    of or a reduction in shelf space and promotional support and
    reduced prices, in each case decreasing our cash flows,
    operating margins and profitability. Our ability to remain
    competitive in the areas of price, quality, brand recognition,
    research and product development, manufacturing and distribution
    will, in large part, determine our future success. If we fail to
    compete successfully, our market share, results of operations
    and financial condition will be materially and adversely
    affected.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 



    If we
    fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may be required to
    establish additional inventory reserves or we may not carry
    enough inventory to meet customer demands, causing us to suffer
    lower margins or losses.


 


    We are faced with the constant challenge of balancing our
    inventory with our ability to meet marketplace needs. Excess
    inventory reserves can result from the complexity of our supply
    chain, a long manufacturing process and the seasonal nature of
    certain products. As a result, we are subject to high levels of
    obsolescence and excess stock. Based on discussions with our
    customers and internally generated projections, we produce,
    purchase
    and/or store
    raw material and finished goods inventory to meet our expected
    demand for delivery. However, we sell a large number of our
    products to a small number of customers, and these customers
    generally are not required by contract to purchase our goods.
    If, after producing and storing inventory in anticipation of
    deliveries, demand is lower than expected, we may have to hold
    inventory for extended periods or sell excess inventory at
    reduced prices, in some cases below our cost. There are inherent
    uncertainties related to the recoverability of inventory, and it
    is possible that market factors and other conditions underlying
    the valuation of inventory may change in the future and result
    in further reserve requirements. Excess inventory can reduce
    gross margins or result in operating losses, lowered plant and
    equipment utilization and lowered fixed operating cost
    absorption, all of which could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations or financial condition. For
    example, while our total inventory reserves were approximately
    $99 million at December 30, 2006, $88 million at
    July 1, 2006 and $89 million at July 3, 2004, our
    total inventory reserves were approximately $116 million at
    July 2, 2005, due in part to lower demand for some of our
    products than forecasted.


 


    Conversely, we also are exposed to lost business opportunities
    if we underestimate market demand and produce too little
    inventory for any particular period. Because sales of our
    products are generally not made under contract, if we do not
    carry enough inventory to satisfy our customers’ demands
    for our products within an acceptable time frame, they may seek
    to fulfill their demands from one or several of our competitors
    and may reduce the amount of business they do with us. Any such
    action would have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Sales of
    and demand for our products may decrease if we fail to keep pace
    with evolving consumer preferences and trends, which could have
    an adverse effect on net sales and profitability.


 


    Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond
    effectively to evolving consumer preferences and trends and to
    translate these preferences and trends into marketable product
    offerings. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify
    or react to changing styles or trends or misjudge the market for
    our products, our sales may be lower than expected and we may be
    faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods
    inventory. In response, we may be forced to increase our
    marketing promotions, provide markdown allowances to our
    customers or liquidate excess merchandise, any of which could
    have a material adverse effect on our net sales and
    profitability. Our brand image may also suffer if customers
    believe that we are no longer able to offer innovative products,
    respond to consumer preferences or maintain the quality of our
    products.


 



    We rely
    on a relatively small number of customers for a significant
    portion of our sales, and the loss of or material reduction in
    sales to any of our top customers would have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    During the six months ended December 30, 2006, our top ten
    customers accounted for 62% of our net sales and our top
    customer, Wal-Mart, accounted for 28% of our net sales. We
    expect that these customers will continue to represent a
    significant portion of our net sales in the future. In addition,
    our top ten customers are the largest market participants in our
    primary distribution channels across all of our product lines.
    Any loss of or material reduction in sales to any of our top ten
    customers, especially Wal-Mart, would be difficult to recapture,
    and would have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 



    We
    generally do not sell our products under contracts, and, as a
    result, our customers are generally not contractually obligated
    to purchase our products, which causes some uncertainty as to
    future sales and inventory levels.


 


    We generally do not enter into purchase agreements that obligate
    our customers to purchase our products, and as a result, most of
    our sales are made on a purchase order basis. For example, we
    have no agreements with Wal-Mart that obligate Wal-Mart to
    purchase our products. If any of our customers experiences a
    significant downturn in its business, or fails to remain
    committed to our products or brands, the customer is generally
    under no contractual obligation to purchase our products and,
    consequently, may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. In
    the past, such actions have resulted in a decrease in sales and
    an increase in our inventory and have had an adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations and financial condition. If
    such actions occur again in the future, our business, results of
    operations and financial condition will likely be similarly
    affected.


 



    Further
    consolidation among our customer base and continued growth of
    our existing customers could result in increased pricing
    pressure, reduced floor space for our products and other changes
    that could be harmful to our business.


 


    In recent years there has been a growing trend toward retailer
    consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, the number of
    retailers to which we sell our products continues to decline
    and, as such, larger retailers now are able to exercise greater
    negotiating power when purchasing our products. Continued
    consolidation in the retail industry could result in further
    price and other competition that may damage our business.
    Additionally, as our customers grow larger, they increasingly
    may require us to provide them with some of our products on an
    exclusive basis, which could cause an increase in the number of
    stock keeping units, or “SKUs,” we must carry and,
    consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital
    requirements.


 


    Moreover, as our customers consolidate and grow larger they may
    increasingly seek markdown allowances, incentives and other
    forms of economic support which reduce our gross margins and
    affect our profitability. Our financial performance is
    negatively affected by these pricing pressures when we are
    forced to reduce our prices without being able to
    correspondingly reduce our production costs.


 



    Our
    customers generally purchase our products on credit, and as a
    result, our results of operations and financial condition may be
    adversely affected if our customers experience financial
    difficulties.


 


    During the past several years, various retailers, including some
    of our largest customers, have experienced significant
    difficulties, including restructurings, bankruptcies and
    liquidations. This could adversely affect us because our
    customers generally pay us after goods are delivered. Adverse
    changes in our customers’ financial position could cause us
    to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us
    to assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s
    future purchases or limit our ability to collect accounts
    receivable relating to previous purchases by that customer, all
    of which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    International
    trade regulations may increase our costs or limit the amount of
    products that we can import from suppliers in a particular
    country, which could have an adverse effect on our
    business.


 


    Because a significant amount of our manufacturing and production
    operations are in, or our products are sourced from, overseas
    locations, we are subject to international trade regulations.
    The international trade regulations to which we are subject or
    may become subject include tariffs, safeguards or quotas. These
    regulations could limit the countries from which we produce or
    source our products or significantly increase the cost of
    operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain
    countries. Restrictions imposed by international trade
    regulations can have a particular impact on our business when,
    after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new
    unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable
    regulations



    
    17



Table of Contents




    currently in effect are changed. The countries in which our
    products are manufactured or into which they are imported may
    from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify
    existing regulations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    additional duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports,
    including retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions, which may
    or may not be based on WTO rules, and which would increase the
    cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries;



 


     
        •  

    
    quantitative limits that may limit the quantity of goods which
    may be imported into the United States from a particular
    country, including the imposition of further
    “safeguard” mechanisms by the U.S. government or
    governments in other jurisdictions, limiting our ability to
    import goods from particular countries, such as China;



 


     
        •  

    
    changes in the classification of products that could result in
    higher duty rates than we have historically paid;



 


     
        •  

    
    modification of the trading status of certain countries;



 


     
        •  

    
    requirements as to where products are manufactured;



 


     
        •  

    
    creation of export licensing requirements, imposition of
    restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum
    export pricing; or



 


     
        •  

    
    creation of other restrictions on imports.





 


    Adverse international trade regulations, including those listed
    above, would have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Significant
    fluctuations and volatility in the price of cotton and other raw
    materials we purchase may have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    Cotton is the primary raw material used in the manufacture of
    many of our products. Our costs for cotton yarn and cotton-based
    textiles vary based upon the fluctuating and often volatile cost
    of cotton, which is affected by weather, consumer demand,
    speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations
    and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer
    countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and
    beyond our control. In addition, fluctuations in crude oil or
    petroleum prices may also influence the prices of related items
    used in our business, such as chemicals, dyestuffs, polyester
    yarn and foam.


 


    We are not always successful in our efforts to protect our
    business from the volatility of the market price of cotton
    through short-term supply agreements and hedges, and our
    business can be adversely affected by dramatic movements in
    cotton prices. For example, we estimate that, excluding the
    impact of futures contracts, a change of $0.01 per pound in
    cotton prices would affect our annual raw material costs by
    $3.7 million, at current levels of production. The ultimate
    effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as
    the effect of movements in cotton prices on industry selling
    prices are uncertain, but any dramatic increase in the price of
    cotton would have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    We
    incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the spin
    off, which subjects us to various restrictions and could
    decrease our profitability and otherwise adversely affect our
    business.


 


    We incurred substantial indebtedness of $2.6 billion in
    connection with our spin off from Sara Lee as described in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital
    Resources.” In December 2006, we repaid $500 million
    of that indebtedness with the proceeds of an offering of
    $500 million of our Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014
    (the “Floating Rate Senior Notes”). We are subject to
    significant financial and operating restrictions contained in
    the senior secured credit facility we entered into on
    September 5, 2006 (the “Senior Secured Credit
    Facility”) and the senior secured second lien credit
    facility we entered into on September 5, 2006 (the
    “Second Lien Credit Facility” and, together with the
    Senior Secured



    
    18



Table of Contents




    Credit Facility, the “Credit Facilities”) and the
    indenture governing the Floating Rate Senior Notes. These
    restrictions affect, and in some cases significantly limit or
    prohibit, among other things, our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    borrow funds;



 


     
        •  

    
    pay dividends or make other distributions;



 


     
        •  

    
    make investments;



 


     
        •  

    
    engage in transactions with affiliates; or



 


     
        •  

    
    create liens on our assets.





 


    In addition, the Credit Facilities require us to maintain
    financial ratios. If we fail to comply with the covenant
    restrictions contained in the Credit Facilities, that failure
    could result in a default that accelerates the maturity of the
    indebtedness under such facilities.


 


    Our substantial leverage also could put us at a significant
    competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors which are
    less leveraged. These competitors could have greater financial
    flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional
    financing for their operations by incurring additional debt,
    expend capital to expand their manufacturing and production
    operations to lower-cost areas and apply pricing pressure on us.
    In addition, because many of our customers rely on us to fulfill
    a substantial portion of their apparel essentials demand, any
    concern these customers may have regarding our financial
    condition may cause them to reduce the amount of products they
    purchase from us. Our substantial leverage could also impede our
    ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy in
    general.


 



    As a
    result of our substantial indebtedness, we may not have
    sufficient funding for our operations and capital
    requirements.


 


    We paid $2.4 billion of the proceeds of the borrowings we
    incurred in connection with the spin off to Sara Lee and, as a
    result, those proceeds are not available for our business needs,
    such as funding working capital or the expansion of our
    operations. In addition, the restrictions contained in the
    Credit Facilities and in the indenture governing the Floating
    Rate Senior Notes restrict our ability to obtain additional
    capital in the future to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    fund capital expenditures or acquisitions;



 


     
        •  

    
    meet our debt payment obligations and capital commitments;



 


     
        •  

    
    fund any operating losses or future development of our business
    affiliates;



 


     
        •  

    
    obtain lower borrowing costs that are available from secured
    lenders or engage in advantageous transactions that monetize our
    assets; or



 


     
        •  

    
    conduct other necessary or prudent corporate activities.





 


    We may need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to
    fund working capital and capital expenditures or to make
    acquisitions and other investments. We cannot assure you that
    debt or equity financing will be available to us on acceptable
    terms or at all. If we are not able to obtain sufficient
    financing, we may be unable to maintain or expand our business.
    It may be more expensive for us to raise funds through the
    issuance of additional debt than it was while we were part of
    Sara Lee.


 


    If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any
    debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights,
    preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our
    common stock in the event of a liquidation, and the terms of the
    debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. If we
    raise funds through the issuance of equity, the issuance would
    dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders.



    
    19



Table of Contents



 



    To
    service our substantial debt obligations, we may need to
    increase the portion of the income of our foreign subsidiaries
    that is expected to be remitted to the United States, which
    could significantly increase our income tax expense.


 


    We pay U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of the
    income of our foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be
    remitted to the United States and be taxable. The amount of the
    income of our foreign subsidiaries we remit to the United States
    may significantly impact our U.S. federal income tax rate.
    In order to service our substantial debt obligations, we may
    need to increase the portion of the income of our foreign
    subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the United States, which
    may significantly increase our income tax expense. Consequently,
    we believe that our tax rate in future periods is likely to be
    higher, on average, than our historical income tax rates in
    periods prior to the spin off on September 5, 2006.


 



    If we
    fail to meet our payment or other obligations under some of the
    Credit Facilities, the lenders could foreclose on, and acquire
    control of, substantially all of our assets.


 


    In connection with our incurrence of indebtedness under the
    Credit Facilities, the lenders under those facilities have
    received a pledge of substantially all of our existing and
    future direct and indirect subsidiaries, with certain customary
    or
    agreed-upon
    exceptions for foreign subsidiaries and certain other
    subsidiaries. Additionally, these lenders generally have a lien
    on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our
    subsidiaries, with certain exceptions. As a result of these
    pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other
    obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facility or the
    Second Lien Credit Facility, the lenders under those facilities
    will be entitled to foreclose on substantially all of our assets
    and, at their option, liquidate these assets.


 



    Our
    supply chain relies on an extensive network of foreign
    operations and any disruption to or adverse impact on such
    operations may adversely affect our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    We have an extensive global supply chain in which a significant
    portion of our products are manufactured in or sourced from
    locations in Central America, the Caribbean Basin, Mexico and
    Asia. Potential events that may disrupt our foreign operations
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    political instability and acts of war or terrorism;



 


     
        •  

    
    disruptions in shipping and freight forwarding services;



 


     
        •  

    
    increases in oil prices, which would increase the cost of
    shipping;



 


     
        •  

    
    interruptions in the availability of basic services and
    infrastructure, including power shortages;



 


     
        •  

    
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates resulting in
    uncertainty as to future asset and liability values, cost of
    goods and results of operations that are denominated in foreign
    currencies;



 


     
        •  

    
    extraordinary weather conditions or natural disasters, such as
    hurricanes, earthquakes or tsunamis; and



 


     
        •  

    
    the occurrence of an epidemic, the spread of which may impact
    our ability to obtain products on a timely basis.





 


    Disruptions to our foreign operations have an adverse impact on
    our supply chain that can result in production and sourcing
    interruptions, increases in our cost of sales and delayed
    deliveries of our products to our customers, all of which can
    have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    The loss
    of one or more of our suppliers of finished goods or raw
    materials may interrupt our supplies and materially harm our
    business.


 


    We purchase all of the raw materials used in our products and
    approximately 23% of the apparel designed by us from a limited
    number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Our ability
    to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to
    maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and finished
    products from



    
    20



Table of Contents




    our third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Our business,
    financial condition or results of operations could be adversely
    affected if any of our principal third-party suppliers or
    manufacturers experience production problems, lack of capacity
    or transportation disruptions. The magnitude of this risk
    depends upon the timing of the changes, the materials or
    products that the third-party manufacturers provide and the
    volume of production.


 


    Our dependence on third parties for raw materials and finished
    products subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and
    customer dissatisfaction with the quality of our products.
    Quality failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in
    their financial or business condition that affect their
    production could disrupt our ability to supply quality products
    to our customers and thereby materially harm our business.


 



    We may
    suffer negative publicity if we or our third-party manufacturers
    violate labor laws or engage in practices that are viewed as
    unethical or illegal, which could cause a loss of
    business.


 


    We cannot fully control the business and labor practices of our
    third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in
    Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Asia. If one of our own
    manufacturing operations or one of our third-party manufacturers
    violates or is accused of violating local or international labor
    laws or other applicable regulations, or engages in labor or
    other practices that would be viewed in any market in which our
    products are sold as unethical, we could suffer negative
    publicity which could tarnish our brands’ image or result
    in a loss of sales. In addition, if such negative publicity
    affected one of our customers, it could result in a loss of
    business for us.


 



    We have
    approximately 49,000 employees worldwide, and our business
    operations and financial performance could be adversely affected
    by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to
    U.S. or foreign employment regulations.


 


    We have approximately 49,000 employees worldwide. This means we
    have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign
    laws governing our relationships with our employees, including
    wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards,
    minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates,
    workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and
    payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our
    operating costs. We have approximately 35,700 employees outside
    of the United States. A significant increase in minimum wage or
    overtime rates in countries where we have employees could have a
    significant impact on our operating costs and may require that
    we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate
    such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional
    costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower
    our margins.


 


    In addition, some of our employees are members of labor
    organizations or are covered by collective bargaining
    agreements. If there were a significant increase in the number
    of our employees who are members of labor organizations or
    become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we would
    become vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor
    action by these employees that could have an adverse effect on
    our business.


 



    Due to
    the extensive nature of our foreign operations, fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our
    results of operations.


 


    We sell a majority of our products in transactions denominated
    in U.S. dollars; however, we purchase many of our products,
    pay a portion of our wages and make other payments in our supply
    chain in foreign currencies. As a result, if the
    U.S. dollar were to weaken against any of these currencies,
    our cost of sales could increase substantially. We are also
    exposed to gains and losses resulting from the effect that
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have on the
    reported results in our Combined and Consolidated Financial
    Statements due to the translation of operating results and
    financial position of our foreign subsidiaries. We use foreign
    exchange forward and option contracts to hedge material exposure
    to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. In addition,
    currency fluctuations can impact the price of cotton, the
    primary raw material we use in our business.



    
    21



Table of Contents



 



    We have
    significant unfunded employee benefit liabilities; if
    assumptions underlying our calculation of these liabilities
    prove incorrect, the amount of these liabilities could increase
    or we could be required to make contributions to these plans in
    excess of our current expectations, both of which could have a
    negative impact on our cash flows, liquidity and results of
    operations.


 


    We assumed significant unfunded employee benefit liabilities of
    $299 million as of September 5, 2006 for pension,
    postretirement and other retirement benefit qualified and
    nonqualified plans from Sara Lee in connection with the spin
    off. Included in these unfunded liabilities are pension
    obligations that have not been reflected in our historical
    financial statements for periods prior to the six months ended
    December 30, 2006 because these obligations have
    historically been obligations of Sara Lee. The pension
    obligations we assumed were $225 million more than the
    corresponding pension assets we acquired, and as a result our
    pension plans are underfunded. As a result of provisions of the
    Pension Protection Act of 2006, we may be required, commencing
    with plan years beginning after 2007, to make larger
    contributions to our pension plans than Sara Lee made with
    respect to these plans in past years. In addition, we could be
    required to make contributions to the pension plans in excess of
    our current expectations if financial conditions change or if
    the assumptions we have used to calculate our pension costs and
    obligations prove to be inaccurate. A significant increase in
    our funding obligations could have a negative impact on our cash
    flows, liquidity and results of operations.


 



    We are
    prohibited from selling our Wonderbra and Playtex intimate
    apparel products in the EU, as well as certain other countries
    in Europe and South Africa, and therefore are unable to take
    advantage of business opportunities that may arise in such
    countries.


 


    In February 2006, Sara Lee sold its European branded apparel
    business to Sun Capital. In connection with the sale, Sun
    Capital received an exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free license
    to sell and distribute apparel products under the Wonderbra
    and Playtex trademarks in the member states of the
    EU, as well as Russia, South Africa, Switzerland and certain
    other nations in Europe. Due to the exclusive license, we are
    not permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex
    branded products in these nations and Sun Capital is not
    permitted to sell Wonderbra and Playtex branded
    products outside of these nations. We also are not permitted to
    distribute or sell certain apparel products, not including
    Hanes products, in these nations until February 2007.
    Consequently, we will not be able to take advantage of business
    opportunities that may arise relating to the sale of
    Wonderbra and Playtex products in these nations.
    For more information on these sales restrictions see
    “Business—Intellectual Property.”


 



    The
    success of our business is tied to the strength and reputation
    of our brands, including brands that we license to other
    parties. If other parties take actions that weaken, harm the
    reputation of or cause confusion with our brands, our business,
    and consequently our sales and results of operations, may be
    adversely affected.


 


    We license some of our important trademarks to third parties.
    For example, we license Champion to third parties
    for athletic-oriented accessories. Although we make concerted
    efforts to protect our brands through quality control mechanisms
    and contractual obligations imposed on our licensees, there is a
    risk that some licensees may not be in full compliance with
    those mechanisms and obligations. In that event, or if a
    licensee engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks
    that would cause us reputational harm, we could experience a
    significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely
    affecting our sales and results of operations. Similarly, any
    misuse of the Wonderbra and Playtex brands by Sun
    Capital could result in negative publicity and a loss of sales
    for our products under these brands, any of which may have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    or financial condition.


 



    We
    design, manufacture, source and sell products under trademarks
    that are licensed from third parties. If any licensor takes
    actions related to their trademarks that would cause their
    brands or our company reputational harm, our business may be
    adversely affected.


 


    We design, manufacture, source and sell a number of our products
    under trademarks that are licensed from third parties such as
    our Polo Ralph Lauren men’s underwear. Because we do
    not control the brands licensed to us, our licensors could make
    changes to their brands or business models that could result in
    a



    
    22



Table of Contents




    significant downturn in a brand’s business, adversely
    affecting our sales and results of operations. If any licensor
    engages in behavior with respect to the licensed marks that
    would cause us reputational harm, or if any of the brands
    licensed to us violates the trademark rights of another or are
    deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, we could experience a
    significant downturn in that brand’s business, adversely
    affecting our sales and results of operations, and we may be
    required to expend significant amounts on public relations,
    advertising and, possibly, legal fees.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Spin Off from Sara Lee


 



    If the
    IRS determines that the spin off does not qualify as a
    “tax-free” distribution or a “tax-free”
    reorganization, we may be subject to substantial
    liability.


 


    Sara Lee has received a private letter ruling from the Internal
    Revenue Service, or the “IRS,” to the effect that,
    among other things, the spin off qualifies as a tax-free
    distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes under
    Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
    amended, or the “Internal Revenue Code,” and as part
    of a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)(D) of
    the Internal Revenue Code, and the transfer to us of assets and
    the assumption by us of liabilities in connection with the spin
    off will not result in the recognition of any gain or loss for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes to Sara Lee.


 


    Although the private letter ruling relating to the qualification
    of the spin off under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the
    Internal Revenue Code generally is binding on the IRS, the
    continuing validity of the ruling is subject to the accuracy of
    factual representations and assumptions made in connection with
    obtaining such private letter ruling. Also, as part of the
    IRS’s general policy with respect to rulings on spin off
    transactions under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue
    Code, the private letter ruling obtained by Sara Lee is based
    upon representations by Sara Lee that certain conditions which
    are necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under
    Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal
    Revenue Code have been satisfied, rather than a determination by
    the IRS that these conditions have been satisfied. Any
    inaccuracy in these representations could invalidate the ruling.


 


    If the spin off does not qualify for tax-free treatment for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, Sara
    Lee would be subject to tax as if it has sold the common stock
    of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Sara
    Lee’s stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had
    received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value
    of our common stock that was distributed to them, taxed as a
    dividend (without reduction for any portion of a Sara Lee’s
    stockholder’s basis in its shares of Sara Lee common stock)
    for U.S. federal income tax purposes and possibly for
    purposes of state and local tax law, to the extent of a Sara
    Lee’s stockholder’s pro rata share of Sara Lee’s
    current and accumulated earnings and profits (including any
    arising from the taxable gain to Sara Lee with respect to the
    spin off). It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to
    Sara Lee’s stockholders and to Sara Lee would be
    substantial.


 


    Pursuant to a tax sharing agreement we entered into with Sara
    Lee in connection with the spin off, we agreed to indemnify Sara
    Lee and its affiliates for any liability for taxes of Sara Lee
    resulting from: (1) any action or failure to act by us or
    any of our affiliates following the completion of the spin off
    that would be inconsistent with or prohibit the spin off from
    qualifying as a tax-free transaction to Sara Lee and to Sara
    Lee’s stockholders under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D)
    of the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) any action or failure
    to act by us or any of our affiliates following the completion
    of the spin off that would be inconsistent with or cause to be
    untrue any material, information, covenant or representation
    made in connection with the private letter ruling obtained by
    Sara Lee from the IRS relating to, among other things, the
    qualification of the spin off as a tax-free transaction
    described under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the
    Internal Revenue Code. Our indemnification obligations to Sara
    Lee and its affiliates are not limited in amount or subject to
    any cap. We expect that the amount of any such taxes to Sara Lee
    would be substantial. For more information about the tax sharing
    agreement, see “Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions, and Director Independence” below.



    
    23



Table of Contents



 



    We have
    virtually no operating history as an independent company upon
    which our performance can be evaluated and, accordingly, our
    prospects must be considered in light of the risks that any
    newly independent company encounters.


 


    Prior to the consummation of the spin off, we operated as part
    of Sara Lee. Accordingly, we have virtually no experience
    operating as an independent company and performing various
    corporate functions, including human resources, tax
    administration, legal (including compliance with the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and with the periodic reporting
    obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the
    “Exchange Act”), treasury administration, investor
    relations, internal audit, insurance, information technology and
    telecommunications services, as well as the accounting for many
    items such as equity compensation, income taxes, derivatives,
    intangible assets and pensions. Our prospects must be considered
    in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by
    companies in the early stages of independent business
    operations, particularly companies such as ours in highly
    competitive markets with complex supply chain operations.


 



    Our
    historical financial information is not necessarily indicative
    of our results as a separate company and therefore may not be
    reliable as an indicator of our future financial
    results.


 


    Much of our historical financial statements have been created
    from Sara Lee’s financial statements using our historical
    results of operations and historical bases of assets and
    liabilities as part of Sara Lee. For example, we operated as
    part of Sara Lee for all periods discussed in this
    Form 10-K,
    other than the last four months of the six months ended
    December 30, 2006. Accordingly, the historical financial
    information we have included in this
    Form 10-K
    is not necessarily indicative of what our financial position,
    results of operations and cash flows would have been if we had
    been a separate, stand-alone entity during all of the periods
    presented.


 


    Much of the historical financial information is not necessarily
    indicative of what our results of operations, financial position
    and cash flows will be in the future and, for periods prior to
    the six months ended December 30, 2006, does not reflect
    many significant changes in our capital structure, funding and
    operations resulting from the spin off. While our historical
    results of operations include all costs of Sara Lee’s
    branded apparel business, our historical costs and expenses do
    not include all of the costs that would have been or will be
    incurred by us as an independent company. In addition, we have
    not made adjustments to our historical financial information to
    reflect changes, many of which are significant, that occurred in
    our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of the
    spin off, including the substantial debt we incurred and pension
    liabilities we assumed in connection with the spin off. These
    changes include potentially increased costs associated with
    reduced economies of scale and purchasing power.


 


    Our effective income tax rate as reflected in our historical
    financial information for periods prior to the six months ended
    December 30, 2006 also may not be indicative of our future
    effective income tax rate. Among other things, the rate may be
    materially impacted by:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    changes in the mix of our earnings from the various
    jurisdictions in which we operate;



 


     
        •  

    
    the tax characteristics of our earnings;



 


     
        •  

    
    the timing and amount of earnings of foreign subsidiaries that
    we repatriate to the United States, which may increase our tax
    expense and taxes paid;



 


     
        •  

    
    the timing and results of any reviews of our income tax filing
    positions in the jurisdictions in which we transact
    business; and



 


     
        •  

    
    the expiration of the tax incentives for manufacturing
    operations in Puerto Rico, which are no longer in effect.






    
    24



Table of Contents



 



    We and
    Sara Lee provide a number of services to each other pursuant to
    a master transition services agreement. When this agreement
    terminates, we will be required to replace Sara Lee’s
    services internally or through third parties on terms that may
    be less favorable to us.


 


    Under the terms of a master transition services agreement that
    we entered into with Sara Lee in connection with the spin off,
    we and Sara Lee are providing to each other, for a fee,
    specified support services related to human resources and
    payroll functions, financial and accounting functions and
    information technology for periods of up to 12 months
    following the spin off (with some renewal terms available). When
    the master transition services agreement terminates, Sara Lee
    will no longer be obligated to provide any of these services to
    us or pay us for the services we are providing Sara Lee, and we
    will be required to either enter into a new agreement with Sara
    Lee or another services provider or assume the responsibility
    for these functions ourselves. At such time, the economic terms
    of the new arrangement may be less favorable than the
    arrangement with Sara Lee under the master transition services
    agreement, which may have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. For
    more information about the master transition services agreement,
    see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and
    Director Independence” below.


 



    We agreed
    with Sara Lee to certain restrictions in order to comply with
    U.S. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free spin
    off and we may not be able to engage in acquisitions and other
    strategic transactions that may otherwise be in our best
    interests.


 


    Current U.S. federal tax law that applies to spin offs
    generally creates a presumption that the spin off would be
    taxable to Sara Lee but not to its stockholders if we engage in,
    or enter into an agreement to engage in, a plan or series of
    related transactions that would result in the acquisition of a
    50% or greater interest (by vote or by value) in our stock
    ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that
    begins two years before the spin off, unless it is established
    that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan related to the
    spin off. U.S. Treasury Regulations generally provide that
    whether an acquisition of our stock and a spin off are part of a
    plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances,
    including specific factors listed in the regulations. In
    addition, the regulations provide certain “safe
    harbors” for acquisitions of our stock that are not
    considered to be part of a plan related to the spin off.


 


    There are other restrictions imposed on us under current
    U.S. federal tax law for spin offs and with which we will
    need to comply in order to preserve the favorable tax treatment
    of the distribution, such as continuing to own and manage our
    apparel business and limitations on sales or redemptions of our
    common stock for cash or other property following the
    distribution.


 


    In our tax sharing agreement with Sara Lee, we agreed that,
    among other things, we will not take any actions that would
    result in any tax being imposed on Sara Lee as a result of the
    spin off. Further, for the two-year period following the spin
    off, we agreed, among other things, not to: (1) sell or
    otherwise issue equity securities or repurchase any of our stock
    except in certain circumstances permitted by the IRS guidelines;
    (2) voluntarily dissolve or liquidate or engage in any
    merger (except certain cash acquisition mergers), consolidation,
    or other reorganizations except for certain mergers of our
    wholly-owned subsidiaries to the extent not inconsistent with
    the tax-free status of the spin off; (3) sell, transfer or
    otherwise dispose of more than 50% of our assets, excluding any
    sales conducted in the ordinary course of business; or
    (4) cease, transfer or dispose of all or any portion of our
    socks business.


 


    We are, however, permitted to take certain actions otherwise
    prohibited by the tax sharing agreement if we provide Sara Lee
    with an unqualified opinion of tax counsel or private letter
    ruling from the IRS, acceptable to Sara Lee, to the effect that
    these actions will not affect the tax-free nature of the spin
    off. These restrictions could substantially limit our strategic
    and operational flexibility, including our ability to finance
    our operations by issuing equity securities, make acquisitions
    using equity securities, repurchase our equity securities, raise
    money by selling assets or enter into business combination
    transactions. For more information about the tax sharing
    agreement, see “Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions, and Director Independence” below.



    
    25



Table of Contents



 



    The terms
    of our spin off from Sara Lee, anti-takeover provisions of our
    charter and bylaws, as well as Maryland law and our stockholder
    rights agreement, may reduce the likelihood of any potential
    change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you
    might consider favorable.


 


    The terms of our spin off from Sara Lee could delay or prevent a
    change of control that our stockholders may favor. An
    acquisition or issuance of our common stock could trigger the
    application of Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
    Under the tax sharing agreement that we entered into with Sara
    Lee, we are required to indemnify Sara Lee for the resulting tax
    in connection with such an acquisition or issuance and this
    indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change
    of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. Our
    charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that
    could make it harder for a third-party to acquire us without the
    consent of our board of directors. Our charter permits our board
    of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter
    to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock
    or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we
    have the authority to issue. In addition, our board of directors
    may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock
    or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or
    other rights, voting powers and other terms of the classified or
    reclassified shares. Our board of directors could establish a
    series of preferred stock that could have the effect of
    delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in
    control that might involve a premium price for our common stock
    or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our
    board of directors also is permitted, without stockholder
    approval, to implement a classified board structure at any time.


 


    Our bylaws, which only can be amended by our board of directors,
    provide that nominations of persons for election to our board of
    directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a
    stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the
    meeting, by our board of directors or by a stockholder who is
    entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the
    advance notice procedures of our bylaws. Also, under Maryland
    law, business combinations between us and an interested
    stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder,
    including mergers, consolidations, share exchanges or, in
    circumstances specified in the statute, asset transfers or
    issuances or reclassifications of equity securities, are
    prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which
    the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. An
    interested stockholder includes any person who beneficially owns
    10% or more of the voting power of our shares or any affiliate
    or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period
    prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10%
    or more of the voting power of our stock. A person is not an
    interested stockholder under the statute if our board of
    directors approved in advance the transaction by which he
    otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However,
    in approving a transaction, our board of directors may provide
    that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time
    of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by our
    board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination
    between us and an interested stockholder generally must be
    recommended by our board of directors and approved by two
    supermajority votes or our common stockholders must receive a
    minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares.
    The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions,
    including business combinations that are exempted by our board
    of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder
    becomes an interested stockholder.


 


    In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights agreement
    which provides that in the event of an acquisition of or tender
    offer for 15% of our outstanding common stock, our stockholders
    shall be granted rights to purchase our common stock at a
    certain price. The stockholder rights agreement could make it
    more difficult for a third-party to acquire our common stock
    without the approval of our board of directors.


 


    These and other provisions of Maryland law or our charter and
    bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or
    preventing a transaction or a change in control that might
    involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be
    considered favorably by our stockholders.



    
    26



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1B