Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    If any of the events discussed in the following risk factors
    were to occur, our business, financial position, results of
    operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially,
    adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also
    constrain our business and operations.


 



    Our
    substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise
    additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to
    react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to
    interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and
    prevent us from meeting our obligations.


 


    We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2010, our total
    indebtedness was $28.225 billion. As of December 31,
    2010, we had availability of $1.189 billion under our
    senior secured revolving credit facility and $125 million
    under our asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving
    effect to letters of credit and borrowing base limitations. Our
    high degree of leverage could have important consequences,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in
    general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse
    changes in government regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to
    be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our
    indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash
    flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future
    business opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain
    of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing
    us to make nonstrategic divestitures;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, product or service line
    development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general
    corporate or other purposes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors who are less highly leveraged.





 


    We and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional
    indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions
    contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the
    indentures governing our outstanding notes. If new indebtedness
    is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we
    now face could intensify.


 



    We may
    not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our
    indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our indebtedness
    on favorable terms. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced
    to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our
    indebtedness, which may not be successful.


 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our
    debt obligations depends on our financial condition and
    operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic
    and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business
    and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you we
    will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities
    sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any,
    and interest on our indebtedness.


 


    In addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries.
    Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the
    generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to
    make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or
    otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be
    permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments
    in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct
    legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and
    contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash
    from our subsidiaries.


 


    We may find it necessary or prudent to refinance our outstanding
    indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest
    rate. In February, April and August of 2009 and in March of
    2010, for example, we issued $310 million in aggregate
    principal amount of
    97/8%
    second lien notes due 2017, $1.500 billion in aggregate
    principal amount of
    81/2%
    first lien notes due 2019, $1.250 billion in aggregate
    principal amount of
    77/8%
    first lien notes due 2020 and $1.400 billion in aggregate
    principal amount of
    71/4%
    first lien notes due 2020, respectively. The net proceeds of
    those offerings were used to prepay term loans under our cash
    flow credit facility, which currently bears interest at a lower
    floating rate. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness on
    favorable terms, or at all, is





    
    37



Table of Contents





    directly affected by the current global economic and financial
    conditions. In addition, our ability to incur secured
    indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better
    pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends
    in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on
    the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on
    economic and market conditions and other factors.


 


    If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund
    our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our
    indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments
    and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional
    capital or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative
    measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our
    scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and
    available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service
    obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and
    might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to
    meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able
    to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the
    dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service
    obligations then due.


 



    Our debt
    agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in
    operating our business.


 


    Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures
    governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that
    limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions.
    These covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’
    ability to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of
    our capital stock or make other restricted payments;




 



     
        • 

    
    make certain investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    sell or transfer assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    create liens;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or
    substantially all of our assets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.





 


    Under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for
    as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based
    revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving
    credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain
    period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default
    has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our
    depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a
    blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to
    prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and
    to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder.


 


    Under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to
    satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to
    meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our
    control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet
    those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in
    a default under both the cash flow credit facility and the
    asset-based revolving credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an
    event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the
    lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts
    outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be
    immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to
    extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts,
    the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could
    proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such
    indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our
    assets under our senior secured credit facilities and that
    collateral (other than certain European collateral securing our
    senior secured European term loan facility) is also pledged as
    collateral under our first lien notes. If any of the lenders
    under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the
    repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance there will be
    sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities,
    the first lien notes and our other indebtedness.


 



    Our
    hospitals face competition for patients from other hospitals and
    health care providers.


 


    The health care business is highly competitive, and competition
    among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has
    intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the
    local communities we serve provide services similar to those
    offered by our hospitals. In addition, CMS publicizes on its
    Hospital Compare website performance data related to quality
    measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys hospitals
    submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. Federal
    law provides for the future expansion of the number of





    
    38



Table of Contents





    quality measures that must be reported. Additional quality
    measures and future trends toward clinical transparency may have
    an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient
    volumes. Further, the Health Reform Law requires all hospitals
    to annually establish, update and make public a list of the
    hospital’s standard charges for items and services. If any
    of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower
    than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient
    satisfaction surveys or if our standard charges are higher than
    our competitors, our patient volumes could decline.


 


    In addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals,
    surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the
    geographic areas in which we operate has increased
    significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in a
    highly competitive environment. Some of the facilities that
    compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or
    not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable
    contributions
    and/or tax
    revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on
    a tax-exempt basis. Our hospitals face increasing competition
    from specialty hospitals, some of which are physician-owned, and
    from both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers
    for market share in high margin services and for quality
    physicians and personnel. If ambulatory surgery centers are
    better able to compete in this environment than our hospitals,
    our hospitals may experience a decline in patient volume, and we
    may experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use
    our ambulatory surgery centers. In states that do not require a
    CON for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care
    facilities or services, competition in the form of new services,
    facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. Further, if
    our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit
    physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care
    contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory
    surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient
    volume. See Item 1, “Business —
    Competition.”


 



    The
    growth of uninsured and patient due accounts and a deterioration
    in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect
    our results of operations.


 


    The primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate
    to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which
    the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by
    the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts
    (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. The provision
    for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly
    from patients.


 


    The amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon
    management’s assessment of historical write-offs and
    expected net collections, business and economic conditions,
    trends in federal and state governmental and private employer
    health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient
    admissions and other collection indicators. At December 31,
    2010, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented
    approximately 93% of the $4.249 billion patient due
    accounts receivable balance. The sum of the provision for
    doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care
    increased from $7.009 billion for 2008 to
    $8.362 billion for 2009 and to $9.626 billion for 2010.


 


    A continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing
    proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured
    accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these
    accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts
    receivable, cash flows and results of operations. Prior to the
    Health Reform Law being fully implemented, our facilities may
    experience growth in bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity
    care as a result of a number of factors, including the economic
    downturn and increase in unemployment. The Health Reform Law
    seeks to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured
    individuals. As enacted, the Health Reform Law will, effective
    January 1, 2014, expand Medicaid and incentivize employers
    to offer, and require individuals to carry, health insurance or
    be subject to penalties. More than 20 challenges to the Health
    Reform Law have been filed in federal courts. Some federal
    courts have upheld the constitutionality of the Health Reform
    Law or dismissed cases on procedural grounds. Others have held
    unconstitutional the requirement that individuals maintain
    health insurance or pay a penalty and have either found the
    Health Reform Law void in its entirety or left the remainder of
    the law intact. These lawsuits are subject to appeal, and
    several are currently on appeal, including those that hold the
    law unconstitutional. It is difficult to predict the full impact
    of the Health Reform Law due to the law’s complexity, lack
    of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, gradual
    and potentially delayed implementation, pending court challenges
    and possible amendment or repeal, as well as our inability to
    foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the
    choices afforded them by the law. In addition, even after
    implementation of the Health Reform Law, we may continue to
    experience bad debts and have to provide uninsured discounts and
    charity care for





    
    39



Table of Contents





    undocumented aliens who are not permitted to enroll in a health
    insurance exchange or government health care programs and
    certain others who may not have insurance coverage.


 



    Changes
    in government health care programs may reduce our
    revenues.


 


    A significant portion of our patient volume is derived from
    government health care programs, principally Medicare and
    Medicaid. Specifically, we derived approximately 41% of our
    revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs in 2010.
    Changes in government health care programs may reduce the
    reimbursement we receive and could adversely affect our business
    and results of operations.


 


    In recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have
    resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in
    levels of payments to health care providers for certain services
    under the Medicare program. For example, CMS completed a
    two-year transition to full implementation of the MS-DRG system,
    which represents a refinement to the existing diagnosis-related
    group system. Future realignments in the MS-DRG system could
    impact the margins we receive for certain services. Further, the
    Health Reform Law provides for material reductions in the growth
    of Medicare program spending, including reductions in Medicare
    market basket updates and Medicare DSH funding. Medicare
    payments in federal fiscal year 2011 for inpatient hospital
    services are expected to be slightly lower than payments for the
    same services in federal fiscal year 2010, because of reductions
    resulting from the Health Reform Law and the MS-DRG
    implementation.


 


    Since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since
    the Medicaid program is often a state’s largest program,
    some states can be expected to enact or consider enacting
    legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. The
    current economic downturn has increased the budgetary pressures
    on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and
    likely will continue to result, in decreased spending, or
    decreased spending growth, for Medicaid programs and the CHIP in
    many states. The Health Reform Law provides for material
    reductions to Medicaid DSH funding. Further, many states have
    also adopted, or are considering, legislation designed to reduce
    coverage, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs
    and/or
    impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
    the states’ Medicaid systems. Effective March 23,
    2010, the Health Reform Law requires states to at least maintain
    Medicaid eligibility standards established prior to the
    enactment of the law for adults until January 1, 2014 and
    for children until October 1, 2019. However, states with
    budget deficits may seek a waiver from this requirement to
    address eligibility standards that apply to adults making more
    than 133% of the federal poverty level. The Health Reform Law
    also provides for significant expansions to the Medicaid
    program, but these changes are not required until 2014. In
    addition, the Health Reform Law will result in increased state
    legislative and regulatory changes in order for states to comply
    with new federal mandates, such as the requirement to establish
    Exchanges, and to participate in grants and other incentive
    opportunities.


 


    In some cases, commercial third-party payers rely on all or
    portions of the MS-DRG system to determine payment rates, which
    may result in decreased reimbursement from some commercial
    third-party payers. Other changes to government health care
    programs may negatively impact payments from commercial
    third-party payers.


 


    Current or future health care reform efforts, changes in laws or
    regulations regarding government health care programs, other
    changes in the administration of government health care programs
    and changes to commercial third-party payers in response to
    health care reform and other changes to government health care
    programs could have a material, adverse effect on our financial
    position and results of operations.


 



    We are
    unable to predict the impact of the Health Reform Law, which
    represents a significant change to the health care
    industry.


 


    As enacted, the Health Reform Law will change how health care
    services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed through expanded
    coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in Medicare
    program spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH
    payments and the establishment of programs where reimbursement
    is tied to quality and integration. In addition, the law reforms
    certain aspects of health insurance, expands existing efforts to
    tie Medicare and Medicaid payments to performance and quality,
    and contains provisions intended to strengthen fraud and abuse
    enforcement. The expansion of health insurance coverage under
    the Health Reform Law may result in a material increase in the
    number of patients using our facilities who have either private
    or public program coverage. In addition, a disproportionately
    large percentage of the new Medicaid coverage is likely to be in





    
    40



Table of Contents





    states that currently have relatively low income eligibility
    requirements. Two such states are Texas and Florida, where about
    one-half of the Company’s licensed beds are located. The
    Company also has a significant presence in other relatively low
    income eligibility states, including Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana,
    Missouri, Oklahoma and Virginia. Further, the Health Reform Law
    provides for a value-based purchasing program, the establishment
    of ACOs and bundled payment pilot programs, which will create
    possible sources of additional revenue.


 


    However, it is difficult to predict the size of the potential
    revenue gains to the Company as a result of these elements of
    the Health Reform Law, because of uncertainty surrounding a
    number of material factors, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    how many previously uninsured individuals will obtain coverage
    as a result of the Health Reform Law (while the CBO estimates
    32 million, CMS estimates almost 34 million; both
    agencies made a number of assumptions to derive that figure,
    including how many individuals will ignore substantial subsidies
    and decide to pay the penalty rather than obtain health
    insurance and what percentage of people in the future will meet
    the new Medicaid income eligibility requirements);




 



     
        • 

    
    what percentage of the newly insured patients will be covered
    under the Medicaid program and what percentage will be covered
    by private health insurers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the extent to which states will enroll new Medicaid participants
    in managed care programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    the pace at which insurance coverage expands, including the pace
    of different types of coverage expansion;




 



     
        • 

    
    the change, if any, in the volume of inpatient and outpatient
    hospital services that are sought by and provided to previously
    uninsured individuals;




 



     
        • 

    
    the rate paid to hospitals by private payers for newly covered
    individuals, including those covered through the newly created
    Exchanges and those who might be covered under the Medicaid
    program under contracts with the state;




 



     
        • 

    
    the rate paid by state governments under the Medicaid program
    for newly covered individuals;




 



     
        • 

    
    how the value-based purchasing and other quality programs will
    be implemented;




 



     
        • 

    
    the percentage of individuals in the Exchanges who select the
    high deductible plans, since health insurers offering those
    kinds of products have traditionally sought to pay lower rates
    to hospitals;




 



     
        • 

    
    whether the net effect of the Health Reform Law, including the
    prohibition on excluding individuals based on pre-existing
    conditions, the requirement to keep medical costs at or above a
    specified minimum percentage of premium revenue, other health
    insurance reforms and the annual fee applied to all health
    insurers, will be to put pressure on the bottom line of health
    insurers, which in turn might cause them to seek to reduce
    payments to hospitals with respect to both newly insured
    individuals and their existing business; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the possibility that implementation of the provisions expanding
    health insurance coverage or the entire Health Reform Law will
    be delayed due to court challenges or revised or eliminated as a
    result of court challenges and efforts to repeal or amend the
    law. More than 20 challenges to the Health Reform Law have been
    filed in federal courts. Some federal district courts have
    upheld the constitutionality of the Health Reform Law or
    dismissed cases on procedural grounds. Others have held
    unconstitutional the requirement that individuals maintain
    health insurance or pay a penalty and have either found the
    Health Reform Law void in its entirety or left the remainder of
    the law intact. These lawsuits are subject to appeal, and
    several are currently on appeal, including those that hold the
    law unconstitutional.





 


    On the other hand, the Health Reform Law provides for
    significant reductions in the growth of Medicare spending,
    reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH payments and the
    establishment of programs where reimbursement is tied to quality
    and integration. Since 40.7% of our revenues in 2010 were from
    Medicare and Medicaid, reductions to these programs may
    significantly impact the Company and could offset any positive
    effects of the Health Reform Law. It is difficult to predict the
    size of the revenue reductions to Medicare and Medicaid
    spending, because of uncertainty regarding a number of material
    factors, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the amount of overall revenues the Company will generate from
    Medicare and Medicaid business when the reductions are
    implemented;







    
    41



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    whether reductions required by the Health Reform Law will be
    changed by statute or by judicial decision prior to becoming
    effective;




 



     
        • 

    
    the size of the Health Reform Law’s annual productivity
    adjustment to the market basket beginning in 2012 payment years;




 



     
        • 

    
    the amount of the Medicare DSH reductions that will be made,
    commencing in federal fiscal year 2014;




 



     
        • 

    
    the allocation to our hospitals of the Medicaid DSH reductions,
    commencing in federal fiscal year 2014;




 



     
        • 

    
    what the losses in revenues will be, if any, from the Health
    Reform Law’s quality initiatives;




 



     
        • 

    
    how successful ACOs, in which we anticipate participating, will
    be at coordinating care and reducing costs or whether they will
    decrease reimbursement;




 



     
        • 

    
    the scope and nature of potential changes to Medicare
    reimbursement methods, such as an emphasis on bundling payments
    or coordination of care programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    whether the Company’s revenues from UPL programs will be
    adversely affected, because there may be fewer indigent,
    non-Medicaid patients for whom the Company provides services
    pursuant to UPL programs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    reductions to Medicare payments CMS may impose for
    “excessive readmissions.”





 


    Because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict
    the net effect on the Company of the expected increases in
    insured individuals using our facilities, the reductions in
    Medicare spending, reductions in Medicare and Medicaid DSH
    funding, and numerous other provisions in the Health Reform Law
    that may affect the Company. Further, it is unclear how efforts
    to repeal or revise the Health Reform Law and federal lawsuits
    challenging its constitutionality will be resolved or what the
    impact would be of any resulting changes to the law.


 



    If we are
    unable to retain and negotiate favorable contracts with
    nongovernment payers, including managed care plans, our revenues
    may be reduced.


 


    Our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment
    payers, including health maintenance organizations, preferred
    provider organizations and other managed care plans
    significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our
    facilities. Revenues derived from these entities and other
    insurers accounted for 53.7% and 53.4% of our revenues for 2010
    and 2009, respectively. Nongovernment payers, including managed
    care payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and
    the trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends
    to increase their bargaining power over fee structures. As
    various provisions of the Health Reform Law are implemented,
    including the establishment of the Exchanges, nongovernment
    payers increasingly may demand reduced fees. Our future success
    will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our
    managed care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts
    on terms favorable to us. Other health care providers may impact
    our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate
    increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and
    conditions. For example, some of our competitors may negotiate
    exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise
    restrict the ability of managed care companies to contract with
    us. It is not clear what impact, if any, the increased
    obligations on managed care payers and other payers imposed by
    the Health Reform Law will have on our ability to negotiate
    reimbursement increases. If we are unable to retain and
    negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans or
    experience reductions in payment increases or amounts received
    from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced.


 



    Our
    performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality
    physicians.


 


    The success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and
    quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our
    hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and
    maintaining good relations with those physicians. Although we
    employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of
    the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets
    we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other
    hospitals in addition to our hospitals. Such physicians may
    terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. If
    we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or
    technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that
    meet the needs of





    
    42



Table of Contents





    those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged
    from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may
    decrease and our operating performance may decline.


 



    Our
    hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase
    labor costs and reduce profitability.


 


    Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and
    experience of our management and medical support personnel, such
    as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our
    physicians. We compete with other health care providers in
    recruiting and retaining qualified management and support
    personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our
    hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care
    professionals. In some markets, the availability of nurses and
    other medical support personnel has been a significant operating
    issue to health care providers. We may be required to continue
    to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and
    other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive
    temporary or contract personnel. As a result, our labor costs
    could increase. We also depend on the available labor pool of
    semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in
    which we operate. Certain proposed changes in federal labor
    laws, including the Employee Free Choice Act, could increase the
    likelihood of employee unionization attempts. To the extent a
    significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is
    possible our labor costs could increase materially. When
    negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions,
    whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there
    is the possibility that strikes could occur during the
    negotiation process, and our continued operation during any
    strikes could increase our labor costs. In addition, the states
    in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios
    or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in
    place. State-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly
    affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we
    are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required
    ratios. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise
    rates to offset these increased costs. Because a significant
    percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective
    payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is
    constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified
    management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to
    control labor costs, could have a material, adverse effect on
    our results of operations.


 



    If we
    fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations,
    we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant
    changes to our operations.


 


    The health care industry is required to comply with extensive
    and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local
    government levels relating to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    billing and coding for services and properly handling
    overpayments;




 



     
        • 

    
    relationships with physicians and other referral sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    necessity and adequacy of medical care;




 



     
        • 

    
    quality of medical equipment and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    qualifications of medical and support personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and
    security issues associated with health-related and personal
    information and medical records;




 



     
        • 

    
    screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have
    emergency medical conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    licensure and certification;




 



     
        • 

    
    hospital rate or budget review;




 



     
        • 

    
    preparing and filing of cost reports;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating policies and procedures;




 



     
        • 

    
    activities regarding competitors; and




 



     
        • 

    
    addition of facilities and services.







    
    43



Table of Contents




 


    Among these laws are the federal Anti-kickback Statute, the
    federal physician self-referral law (commonly called the Stark
    Law), the federal FCA and similar state laws. We have a variety
    of financial relationships with physicians and others who either
    refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and
    other health care facilities, and these laws govern those
    relationships. The OIG has enacted safe harbor regulations that
    outline practices deemed protected from prosecution under the
    Anti-kickback Statute. While we endeavor to comply with the
    applicable safe harbors, certain of our current arrangements,
    including joint ventures and financial relationships with
    physicians and other referral sources and persons and entities
    to which we refer patients, do not qualify for safe harbor
    protection. Failure to qualify for a safe harbor does not mean
    the arrangement necessarily violates the Anti-kickback Statute
    but may subject the arrangement to greater scrutiny. However, we
    cannot offer assurance that practices outside of a safe harbor
    will not be found to violate the Anti-kickback Statute.
    Allegations of violations of the Anti-kickback Statute may be
    brought under the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Law, which
    requires a lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse
    laws, including the Anti-kickback Statute.


 


    Our financial relationships with referring physicians and their
    immediate family members must comply with the Stark Law by
    meeting an exception. We attempt to structure our relationships
    to meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations
    implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we
    cannot provide assurance that every relationship complies fully
    with the Stark Law. Unlike the Anti-kickback Statute, failure to
    meet an exception under the Stark Law results in a violation of
    the Stark Law, even if such violation is technical in nature.


 


    Additionally, if we violate the Anti-kickback Statute or Stark
    Law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found
    to violate the FCA, either under a suit brought by the
    government or by a private person under a qui tam, or
    “whistleblower,” suit. See Item 1,
    “Business — Regulation and Other Factors.”


 


    If we fail to comply with the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark
    Law, the FCA or other applicable laws and regulations, we could
    be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties
    (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more
    facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from
    participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and
    state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws
    and regulations, criminal penalties.


 


    We do not always have the benefit of significant regulatory or
    judicial interpretation of these laws and regulations. In the
    future, different interpretations or enforcement of, or
    amendment to, these laws and regulations could subject our
    current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or
    illegality or could require us to make changes in our
    facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure
    programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have
    violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are
    being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could
    have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business
    reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, other
    legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be
    adopted that adversely affect our business.


 



    We have
    been and could become the subject of governmental
    investigations, claims and litigation.


 


    Health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by
    various governmental agencies. Further, under the FCA, private
    parties have the right to bring qui tam, or
    “whistleblower,” suits against companies that submit
    false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments
    from, the government. Some states have adopted similar state
    whistleblower and false claims provisions. Certain of our
    individual facilities have received, and other facilities may
    receive, government inquiries from, and may be subject to
    investigation by, federal and state agencies. Depending on
    whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or
    investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution
    could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position,
    results of operations and liquidity.


 


    Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare
    Administrative Contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers,
    as well as the OIG, CMS and state Medicaid programs, conduct
    audits of our health care operations. Private payers may conduct
    similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits
    and monitoring. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in
    such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be
    considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a
    material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations and liquidity.




    
    44



Table of Contents





    As required by statute, CMS has implemented the RAC program on a
    nationwide basis. Under the program, CMS contracts with RACs on
    a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to
    detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service
    Medicare program. The Health Reform Law expands the RAC
    program’s scope to include managed Medicare plans and to
    include Medicaid claims. In addition, CMS employs MICs to
    perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims and identify
    overpayments. The Health Reform Law increases federal funding
    for the MIC program for federal fiscal year 2011 and later
    years. In addition to RACs and MICs, the state Medicaid agencies
    and other contractors have increased their review activities.


 


    Should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws,
    regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the
    findings, our business, our financial position and our results
    of operations could be negatively impacted.


 



    Controls
    designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our
    revenues.


 


    Controls imposed by Medicare, managed Medicare, Medicaid,
    managed Medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to
    reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as
    “utilization review,” have affected and are expected
    to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails
    the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient
    by health plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay
    and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by
    payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review
    and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative
    health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients.
    Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to
    continue. For example, the Health Reform Law potentially expands
    the use of prepayment review by Medicare contractors by
    eliminating statutory restrictions on their use. Although we are
    unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our
    operations, significant limits on the scope of services
    reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a
    material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and
    results of operations.


 



    Our
    overall business results may suffer from the economic
    downturn.


 


    During periods of high unemployment, governmental entities often
    experience budget deficits as a result of increased costs and
    lower than expected tax collections. These budget deficits at
    federal, state and local government entities have decreased, and
    may continue to decrease, spending for health and human service
    programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and similar programs,
    which represent significant payer sources for our hospitals.
    Other risks we face during periods of high unemployment include
    potential declines in the population covered under managed care
    agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and
    non-emergency health care procedures, potential increases in the
    uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties
    in our collecting patient co-payment and deductible receivables.


 



    The
    industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively
    impact our revenues.


 


    There is a trend in the health care industry towards value-based
    purchasing of health care services. These value-based purchasing
    programs include both public reporting of quality data and
    preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of
    care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including
    Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report
    certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In
    addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to
    certain preventable adverse events (also called “never
    events”). Many large commercial payers currently require
    hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers
    do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse
    events. Further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which
    we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or
    expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events.


 


    Effective July 1, 2011, the Health Reform Law will prohibit
    the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse
    providers for medical assistance provided to treat HACs.
    Beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, the 25% of hospitals with
    the worst national risk-adjusted HAC rates in the previous year
    will receive a 1% reduction in their total inpatient operating
    Medicare payments. Hospitals with excessive readmissions for





    
    45



Table of Contents





    conditions designated by HHS will receive reduced payments for
    all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the
    conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard.


 


    The Health Reform Law also requires HHS to implement a
    value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services.
    The Health Reform Law requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital
    payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in
    federal fiscal year 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal
    year up to 2% in federal fiscal year 2017 and subsequent years.
    HHS will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund
    payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality
    performance standards established by HHS. HHS will determine the
    amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality
    performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars
    created by these payment reductions. As proposed by CMS, the
    value-based purchasing program will initially calculate
    incentive payments based on hospitals’ achievement of 17
    clinical process of care measures and eight dimensions of a
    patient’s experience of care using the HCAHPS survey and
    their improvement in meeting these standards compared to prior
    periods. For federal fiscal year 2013, CMS estimates the
    value-based purchasing program will redistribute
    $850 million among the nation’s hospitals.


 


    We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs
    that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to
    become more common and to involve a higher percentage of
    reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how
    this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could
    negatively impact our revenues.


 



    Our
    operations could be impaired by a failure of our information
    systems.


 


    Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or
    availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or
    delay the collection of revenues. Even though we have
    implemented network security measures, our servers are
    vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar
    disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any
    of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss
    or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems
    or liability under privacy and security laws, all of which could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial position and
    results of operations and harm our business reputation.


 


    The performance of our information technology and systems is
    critical to our business operations. In addition to our shared
    services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a
    number of critical areas of our operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    accounting and financial reporting;




 



     
        • 

    
    billing and collecting accounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    coding and compliance;




 



     
        • 

    
    clinical systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    medical records and document storage;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory management;




 



     
        • 

    
    negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts
    and supply contracts; and




 



     
        • 

    
    monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality
    measures necessary for full Medicare payment updates.





 



    If we
    fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health
    record systems, our operations could be adversely
    affected.


 


    As required by the ARRA, the Secretary of HHS is in the process
    of developing and implementing an incentive payment program for
    eligible hospitals and health care professionals that adopt and
    meaningfully use certified EHR technology. HHS intends to use
    the Provider Enrollment, Chain and Ownership System
    (“PECOS”) to verify Medicare enrollment prior to
    making EHR incentive program payments. During 2011, we
    anticipate receiving Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments
    for being a meaningful user of certified EHR technology. We
    anticipate a majority of 2011 incentive payments will be
    received and recognized as revenues during the fourth quarter of
    2011. Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments for our eligible
    hospitals and professionals are estimated to range from
    $275 million to $325 million for 2011. Actual
    incentive payments could vary from these estimates due to
    certain





    
    46



Table of Contents





    factors such as availability of federal funding for both
    Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments, timing of the approval
    of state Medicaid incentive payment plans by CMS and our ability
    to implement and demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR
    technology.


 


    We have incurred and will continue to incur both capital costs
    and operating expenses in order to implement our certified EHR
    technology and meet meaningful use requirements. These expenses
    are ongoing and are projected to continue over all stages of
    implementation of meaningful use. The timing of expenses will
    not correlate with the receipt of the incentive payments and the
    recognition of revenues. We estimate that operating expenses to
    implement our certified EHR technology and meet meaningful use
    will range from $125 million to $150 million for 2011.
    Actual operating expenses could vary from these estimates. If
    our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the
    requirements for participation in the incentive payment program,
    including having an enrollment record in PECOS, we will not be
    eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of
    the costs of implementing EHR systems. Further, eligible
    providers that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified
    EHR technology will be subject to reduced payments from
    Medicare, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015 for eligible
    hospitals and calendar year 2015 for eligible professionals.
    Failure to implement certified EHR systems effectively and in a
    timely manner could have a material, adverse effect on our
    financial position and results of operations.


 



    State
    efforts to regulate the construction or expansion of health care
    facilities could impair our ability to operate and expand our
    operations.


 


    Some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country,
    require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as
    a CON, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health
    care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make
    changes in services or bed capacity. In giving approval, these
    states consider the need for additional or expanded health care
    facilities or services. We currently operate health care
    facilities in a number of states with CON laws. The failure to
    obtain any requested CON could impair our ability to operate or
    expand operations. Any such failure could, in turn, adversely
    affect our ability to attract patients to our facilities and
    grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.


 



    Our
    facilities are heavily concentrated in Florida and Texas, which
    makes us sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and
    competitive conditions and changes in those states.


 


    We operated 164 hospitals at December 31, 2010, and 74 of
    those hospitals are located in Florida and Texas. Our Florida
    and Texas facilities’ combined revenues represented
    approximately 52% of our consolidated revenues for the year
    ended December 31, 2010. This concentration makes us
    particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental
    and competitive conditions and changes in those states. Any
    material change in the current payment programs or regulatory,
    economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those
    states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall
    business results.


 


    In addition, our hospitals in Florida, Texas and other areas
    across the Gulf Coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. In
    the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the
    operations of our hospitals in Florida, Texas and other coastal
    states, and the patient populations in those states. Our
    business activities could be harmed by a particularly active
    hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property
    insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from
    future hurricanes or other natural disasters.


 



    We may be
    subject to liabilities from claims by the Internal Revenue
    Service.


 


    We are currently contesting, before the IRS Appeals Division,
    certain claimed deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the IRS
    Examination Division in connection with its audit of HCA
    Inc.’s 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns. The
    disputed items include the timing of recognition of certain
    patient service revenues, the deductibility of certain debt
    retirement costs and our method for calculating the tax
    allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, eight taxable
    periods of HCA Inc. and its predecessors ended in 1997 through
    2004, for which the primary remaining issue is the computation
    of the tax allowance for doubtful accounts, are currently
    pending before the IRS Examination Division. The IRS Examination
    Division began an audit of HCA Inc.’s 2007, 2008 and 2009
    federal income tax returns in December 2010.


 


    Management believes HCA Holdings, Inc., its predecessors,
    subsidiaries and affiliates properly reported taxable income and
    paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws and agreements
    established with the IRS and final resolution of these disputes
    will not have a material, adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial position.





    
    47



Table of Contents





    However, if payments due upon final resolution of these issues
    exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions could have a
    material, adverse effect on our results of operations or
    financial position.


 



    We may be
    subject to liabilities from claims brought against our
    facilities.


 


    We are subject to litigation relating to our business practices,
    including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the
    ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product
    liability or other legal theories. Many of these actions involve
    large claims and significant defense costs. We insure a portion
    of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned
    subsidiary. Management believes our reserves for self-insured
    retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover
    insured claims arising out of the operation of our facilities.
    Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered into certain
    reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered by the
    reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for
    professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable
    to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations
    under the reinsurance contracts. If payments for claims exceed
    actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance,
    or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our
    results of operations and financial position could be adversely
    affected.


 



    We are
    exposed to market risks related to changes in the market values
    of securities and interest rate changes.


 


    We are exposed to market risk related to changes in market
    values of securities. The investments in debt and equity
    securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were
    $734 million and $8 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2010. These investments are carried at fair
    value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being
    recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. At
    December 31, 2010, we had a net unrealized gain of
    $10 million on the insurance subsidiary’s investment
    securities.


 


    We are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity.
    Liquidity of the investments in debt and equity securities of
    our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary could be impaired by the
    inability to access the capital markets. Should the wholly-owned
    insurance subsidiary require significant amounts of cash in
    excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other
    expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these
    investments in a timely manner or be forced to sell them at a
    price less than what we might otherwise have been able to in a
    normal market environment. At December 31, 2010, our
    wholly-owned insurance subsidiary had invested $250 million
    ($251 million par value) in tax-exempt student loan auction
    rate securities that continue to experience market illiquidity.
    It is uncertain if auction-related market liquidity will resume
    for these securities. We may be required to recognize
    other-than-temporary impairments on these long-term investments
    in future periods should issuers default on interest payments or
    should the fair market valuations of the securities deteriorate
    due to ratings downgrades or other issue specific factors.


 


    We are also exposed to market risk related to changes in
    interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate
    swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations.
    Our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed
    and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based
    on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. The
    notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used
    to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets
    or liabilities.


 



    Since the
    Recapitalization, the Investors control us and may have
    conflicts of interest with us in the future.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, the Investors indirectly owned
    approximately 96.8% of our capital stock due to the
    Recapitalization. As a result, the Investors have control over
    our decisions to enter into any significant corporate
    transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that
    requires the approval of stockholders. For example, the
    Investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the
    amount of our indebtedness or sell assets.


 


    Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making
    investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in
    businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or
    more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities
    that may be complementary to our business and, as a result,
    those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So
    long as investment funds associated with or designated by the
    Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the
    outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is
    less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly
    influence or effectively control our decisions.




    
    48



Table of Contents




 





    
    



    
    Item 1B