Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Risk
    Factors


 


    If any of the events discussed in the following risk factors
    were to occur, our business, financial position, results of
    operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially,
    adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also
    constrain our business and operations.


 


    Our Substantial Leverage Could Adversely Affect Our Ability
    To Raise Additional Capital To Fund Our Operations, Limit
    Our Ability To React To Changes In The Economy Or Our Industry,
    Expose Us To Interest Rate Risk To The Extent Of Our Variable
    Rate Debt And Prevent Us From Meeting Our Obligations.


 


    Since completing the Recapitalization, we are highly leveraged.
    As of December 31, 2007, our total indebtedness was
    $27.308 billion. Our high degree of leverage could have
    important consequences, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry
    conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to
    be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our
    indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash
    flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future
    business opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain
    of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing
    us to make nonstrategic divestitures;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, product or service line
    development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general
    corporate or other purposes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors who are less highly leveraged.





 


    We and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional
    indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions
    contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the
    indentures governing our outstanding notes. If new indebtedness
    is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we
    now face could intensify.


 



    Our Debt
    Agreements Contain Restrictions That Limit Our Flexibility In
    Operating Our Business.


 


    Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures
    governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that
    limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions.
    These covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’
    ability to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of
    our capital stock or make other restricted payments;




 



     
        • 

    
    make certain investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    sell or transfer assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    create liens;






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or
    substantially all of our assets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.





 


    Under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for
    as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based
    revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving
    credit facility is less than a specified amount, for a certain
    period of time, or if a payment or bankruptcy event of default
    has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our
    depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a
    blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to
    prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and
    to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder.


 


    Under our senior secured credit facilities we are required to
    satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to
    meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our
    control, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to
    meet those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could
    result in a default under both of our senior secured credit
    facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our
    senior secured credit facilities, our lenders could elect to
    declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit
    facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all
    commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay
    those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit
    facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them
    to secure each such indebtedness. We have pledged a significant
    portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured
    credit facilities and our existing senior secured notes. If any
    of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities
    accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no
    assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our
    senior secured credit facilities and our outstanding notes.


 



    Our
    Hospitals Face Competition For Patients From Other Hospitals And
    Health Care Providers.


 


    The health care business is highly competitive, and competition
    among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has
    intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the
    local communities served by most of our hospitals provide
    services similar to those offered by our hospitals. In 2005, CMS
    began making public performance data related to 10 quality
    measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare
    reimbursement. On February 8, 2006, the federal DRA 2005
    was enacted by Congress to expand and provide for the future
    expansion of the number of quality measures that must be
    reported. For federal fiscal year 2008, CMS requires hospitals
    to report 27 measures of inpatient quality of care to avoid a 2%
    point reduction in their market basket update. For the federal
    fiscal year 2009 payment update, CMS will require hospitals to
    report 30 inpatient quality measures to avoid a 2% point
    reduction in their market basket update. CMS is requiring that
    seven measures of outpatient quality of care be reported during
    federal fiscal year 2008 to receive the full market basket
    update for outpatient services in federal fiscal year 2009. The
    additional quality measures and future trends toward clinical
    transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive
    position and patient volumes. If any of our hospitals achieve
    poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on
    these quality measures, patient volumes could decline.


 


    In addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals,
    surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the
    geographic areas in which we operate has increased
    significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in a
    highly competitive environment. Some of the hospitals that
    compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or
    not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable
    contributions
    and/or tax
    revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on
    a tax-exempt basis. Our hospitals are facing increasing
    competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and from
    both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for
    market share in high margin services and for quality physicians
    and personnel. Also, we anticipate that the number of
    physician-owned specialty hospitals may increase as HHS has
    ended a moratorium on the Medicare enrollment of such hospitals.
    If ambulatory surgery centers are better able to compete in this
    environment than our hospitals, our hospitals may experience a
    decline in patient volume, and we may experience a decrease in
    margin, even if those patients use our ambulatory surgery
    centers. Further, if our competitors are better able to attract
    patients, recruit physicians, expand services or obtain
    favorable managed care contracts at their facilities than our
    hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an
    overall decline in patient volume. See Item 1,
    “Business — Competition.”



    
    21



Table of Contents





    The
    Growth Of Uninsured And Patient Due Accounts And A Deterioration
    In The Collectibility Of These Accounts Could Adversely Affect
    Our Results Of Operations.


 


    The primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate
    to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which
    the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by
    the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts
    (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. The provision
    for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly
    from patients.


 


    The amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon
    management’s assessment of historical writeoffs and
    expected net collections, business and economic conditions,
    trends in federal and state governmental and private employer
    health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient
    admissions and other collection indicators. At December 31,
    2007, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented
    approximately 89% of the $4.825 billion patient due
    accounts receivable balance. For the year ended
    December 31, 2007, the provision for doubtful accounts
    increased to 11.7% of revenues compared to 10.4% of revenues in
    2006.


 


    A continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing
    proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured
    accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these
    accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts
    receivable, cash flows and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    In Governmental And Judicial Interpretations May Negatively
    Impact Our Ability To Obtain Reimbursement Of Medicare Bad
    Debts


 


    The Medicare program will reimburse 70% of bad debts related to
    deductibles and coinsurance for patients with Medicare coverage,
    after the provider has made a reasonable effort to collect these
    amounts. On March 30, 2006, the United States District
    Court for the Western District of Michigan entered a final order
    in Battle Creek Health System v. Thompson, which
    provided that reasonable collection efforts have not been
    satisfied as long as the Medicare accounts remained with an
    external collection agency. On appeal, the United States Court
    of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit upheld the lower court’s
    decision. We incur substantial amounts of Medicare bad debts
    every year that could be subjected to the Battle Creek
    decision. We utilize extensive in-house and external collection
    efforts for our accounts receivable, including deductible and
    coinsurance amounts owed by patients with Medicare coverage. We
    utilize a secondary collection agency after in-house and primary
    collection agency efforts have been unsuccessful. As of
    August 1, 2007, we modified our accounts receivable
    collection processes to provide us with reasonable collection
    results and comply with CMS’s interpretation of reasonable
    collection efforts. Possible future changes in judicial and
    administrative interpretations of law and regulations governing
    Medicare could disrupt our collections processes, increase our
    costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.


 



    Changes
    In Governmental Programs May Reduce Our Revenues.


 


    A significant portion of our patient volumes is derived from
    government health care programs, principally Medicare and
    Medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and
    substantial changes. We derived approximately 57% of our
    admissions from the Medicare and Medicaid programs in 2007. In
    recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted
    in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of
    payments to health care providers for certain services under
    these government programs. Possible future changes in the
    Medicare, Medicaid, and other state programs, including Medicaid
    supplemental payments pursuant to upper payment limit programs,
    may impact reimbursements to health care providers and insurers.
    Such changes may also increase our operating costs, which could
    reduce our profitability.


 


    Effective January 1, 2007, as a result of the federal DRA
    2005, reimbursements for ASC overhead costs were limited to no
    more than the overhead costs paid to hospital outpatient
    departments under the Medicare hospital outpatient PPS for the
    same procedure. On August 2, 2007, CMS issued final
    regulations that changed payments for procedures performed in an
    ASC. Effective January 1, 2008, ASC payment groups
    increased from nine clinically disparate payment groups to an
    extensive list of covered surgical procedures among the APCs
    used under the outpatient PPS for these surgical services. CMS
    estimates that the payment rates for procedures performed in an
    ASC setting equal 65% of the corresponding rates paid for the
    same procedures performed in an outpatient hospital setting.
    Moreover, if CMS determines that a procedure is commonly
    performed in a physician’s office, the ASC reimbursement
    for that procedure is limited to the reimbursement allowable
    under the Medicare Part B Physician



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Fee Schedule, with limited exceptions. In addition, all surgical
    procedures, other than those that pose a significant safety risk
    or generally require an overnight stay, are payable as ASC
    procedures. This has expanded the number of procedures that
    Medicare pays for if performed in an ASC. Because the new
    payment system has a significant impact on payments for certain
    procedures, the final rule establishes a four-year transition
    period for implementing the revised payment rates. More Medicare
    procedures that are now performed in hospitals, such as ours,
    may be moved to ASCs, reducing surgical volume in our hospitals.
    Also, more Medicare procedures that are now performed in ASCs,
    such as ours, may be moved to physicians’ offices.
    Commercial third-party payers may adopt similar policies.


 


    On August 22, 2007, CMS issued a final rule for federal
    fiscal year 2008 for hospital inpatient PPS. This rule adopts a
    two-year implementation of MS-DRGs, a severity-adjusted DRG
    system. This change represents a refinement to the existing DRG
    system, and its impact on our revenues has not been significant.
    Realignments in the DRG system could impact the margins we
    receive for certain services. This rule provides for a 3.3%
    market basket update for hospitals that submit certain quality
    patient care indicators and a 1.3% update for hospitals that do
    not submit this data. While we will endeavor to comply with all
    quality data submission requirements, our submissions may not be
    deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market
    basket adjustment for all our hospitals. Medicare payments to
    hospitals in federal fiscal year 2008 will be reduced by 0.6% to
    eliminate what CMS estimates will be the effect of coding or
    classification changes as a result of hospitals implementing the
    MS-DRG system. This “documentation and coding
    adjustment” will increase to 0.9% for federal fiscal year
    2009. However, Congress has given CMS the ability to
    retrospectively determine if the documentation and coding
    adjustment levels for federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009 were
    adequate to account for changes in payments not related to
    changes in case mix. If the levels are found to have been
    inadequate, CMS can impose an adjustment to payments for federal
    fiscal years 2010, 2011 and 2012. This evaluation of changes in
    case-mix based on actual claims data may yield a higher
    documentation and coding adjustment thereby potentially reducing
    our revenues and impacting our results of operations in ways
    that cannot be quantified at this time. Additionally, Medicare
    payments to hospitals are subject to a number of other
    adjustments, and the actual impact on payments to specific
    hospitals may vary. In some cases, commercial third-party payers
    and other payers such as some state Medicaid programs rely on
    all or portions of the Medicare DRG system to determine payment
    rates. The change from traditional Medicare DRGs to MS-DRGs
    could adversely impact those payment rates if any other payers
    adopt MS-DRGs.


 


    Since states must operate with balanced budgets and since the
    Medicaid program is often the state’s largest program,
    states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation
    designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. DRA 2005
    includes Medicaid cuts of approximately $4.8 billion over
    five years. On May 29, 2007, CMS published a final rule
    entitled “Medicaid Program; Cost Limit for Providers
    Operated by Units of Government and Provisions to Ensure the
    Integrity of Federal-State Financial Partnership.” A
    moratorium was placed on this rule, delaying its implementation
    until 2008. However, when the moratorium expires, this final
    rule could significantly impact state Medicaid programs. In its
    proposed form, this rule was expected to reduce federal Medicaid
    funding by $12.2 billion over five years. As a result of
    the moratorium on implementing the final rule, the impact of the
    final rule has not been quantified. States have also adopted, or
    are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and
    program eligibility, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care
    programs
    and/or
    impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
    the states’ Medicaid systems. Future legislation or other
    changes in the administration or interpretation of government
    health programs could have a material, adverse effect on our
    financial position and results of operations.


 



    Demands
    Of Nongovernment Payers May Adversely Affect Our Growth In
    Revenues.


 


    Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment
    payers, including managed care plans, significantly affects the
    revenues and operating results of most of our hospitals.
    Admissions derived from managed care and other insurers
    accounted for approximately 37% of our admissions in 2007.
    Nongovernment payers, including managed care payers,
    increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures, and the
    trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to
    increase their bargaining power over fee structures. Reductions
    in price increases or the amounts received from managed care,
    commercial insurance or other payers could have a material,
    adverse effect on our financial position and results of
    operations.



    
    23



Table of Contents





    If We Are
    Unable To Retain And Negotiate Favorable Contracts With Managed
    Care Plans, Our Revenues May Be Reduced. 


 


    Our ability to obtain favorable contracts with health
    maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and
    other managed care plans significantly affects the revenues and
    operating results of our facilities. Revenues derived from these
    entities and other insurers accounted for 53% of our patient
    revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
    Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to
    retain and renew our managed care contracts and enter into new
    managed care contracts on terms favorable to us. Other health
    care providers may impact our ability to enter into managed care
    contracts or negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other
    favorable terms and conditions. For example, some of our
    competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed
    care plans or otherwise restrict the ability of managed care
    companies to contract with us. If we are unable to retain and
    negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans, our
    revenues may be reduced.


 



    Our
    Performance Depends On Our Ability To Recruit And Retain Quality
    Physicians.


 


    Physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions,
    and the success of our hospitals depends, therefore, in part on
    the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs
    of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians
    and maintaining good relations with those physicians. Physicians
    are generally not employees of the hospitals at which they
    practice and, in many of the markets that we serve, most
    physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in
    addition to our hospitals. Such physicians may terminate their
    affiliation with our hospitals at any time. If we are unable to
    provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced
    equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those
    physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to
    our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating
    performance may decline.


 



    Our
    Hospitals Face Competition For Staffing, Which May Increase
    Labor Costs And Reduce Profitability.


 


    Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and
    experience of our management and medical support personnel, such
    as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our
    physicians. We compete with other health care providers in
    recruiting and retaining qualified management and support
    personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our
    hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care
    professionals. In some markets, the availability of nurses and
    other medical support personnel has become a significant
    operating issue to health care providers. We may be required to
    continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain
    nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more
    expensive temporary or contract personnel. We also depend on the
    available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in
    each of the markets in which we operate. As the competition
    increases to hire more people from labor pools that are not
    growing at a rate sufficient to meet demand, our labor costs
    could increase. Additionally, to the extent that a significant
    portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize,
    our costs could increase. If our costs increase, we may not be
    able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a
    significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed,
    prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor
    costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain
    qualified management, nurses and other medical support
    personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material,
    adverse effect on our results of operations.


 



    If We
    Fail To Comply With Extensive Laws And Government Regulations,
    We Could Suffer Penalties Or Be Required To Make Significant
    Changes To Our Operations.


 


    The health care industry is required to comply with extensive
    and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local
    government levels relating to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    billing for services;




 



     
        • 

    
    relationships with physicians and other referral sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    adequacy of medical care;




 



     
        • 

    
    quality of medical equipment and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    qualifications of medical and support personnel;






    
    24



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with
    health-related information and medical records;




 



     
        • 

    
    the screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who
    have emergency medical conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    licensure and certification;




 



     
        • 

    
    hospital rate or budget review;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating policies and procedures; and




 



     
        • 

    
    addition of facilities and services.





 


    Among these laws are the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark Law
    and the False Claims Act and similar state laws. These laws
    impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and
    other referral sources. We have a variety of financial
    relationships with physicians and others who either refer or
    influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other
    health care facilities, including employment contracts, leases
    and professional service agreements. We also have similar
    relationships with physicians and facilities to which patients
    are referred from our facilities. We also provide financial
    incentives, including minimum revenue guarantees, to recruit
    physicians into the communities served by our hospitals. The OIG
    has enacted safe harbor regulations that outline practices that
    are deemed protected from prosecution under the Anti-kickback
    Statute. While we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe
    harbors, certain of our current arrangements, including joint
    ventures and financial relationships with physicians and other
    referral sources and persons and entities to which we refer
    patients, do not qualify for safe harbor protection. Failure to
    qualify for a safe harbor does not mean that the arrangement
    necessarily violates the Anti-kickback Statute, but may subject
    the arrangement to greater scrutiny; however, we cannot assure
    you that practices that are outside of a safe harbor will not be
    found to violate the Anti-kickback Statute. Allegations of
    violations of the Anti-kickback Statute may also be brought
    under the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Law, which requires a
    lower burden of proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including
    the Anti-kickback Statute.


 


    Our financial relationships with referring physicians and their
    immediate family members must comply with the Stark Law by
    meeting an exception. We attempt to structure our relationships
    to meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations
    implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we
    cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the
    Stark Law. Unlike the Anti-kickback Statute, failure to meet an
    exception under the Stark Law results in a violation of the
    Stark Law, even if such violation is technical in nature.


 


    Additionally, if we violate the Anti-kickback Statute or Stark
    Law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found
    to violate the False Claims Act, either under a suit brought by
    the government or by a private person under a qui tam, or
    “whistleblower,” suit.


 


    If we fail to comply with the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark
    Law, the False Claims Act or other applicable laws and
    regulations, or if we fail to maintain an effective corporate
    compliance program, we could be subjected to liabilities,
    including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to
    operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more
    facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and
    other federal and state health care programs and, for violations
    of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. See
    Item 1, “Business — Regulation and Other
    Factors.”


 


    Because many of these laws and their implementation regulations
    are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of
    significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws
    and regulations. In the future, different interpretations or
    enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our
    current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or
    illegality or could require us to make changes in our
    facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure
    programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have
    violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are
    being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could
    have a material, adverse effect our business, financial
    condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business
    reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, other
    legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be
    adopted that adversely affect our business.


 


    CMS has announced its intent to require 500 hospitals to respond
    to the DFRR and thereby disclose certain financial relationships
    between such hospitals and physicians. The timing and format of
    the DFRR are not yet



    
    25



Table of Contents




    known. HHS has indicated it intends to use the DFRR to monitor
    compliance with the Stark Law, and HHS may share the information
    with other government agencies. CMS has indicated that
    responding hospitals will have a limited amount of time to
    compile a significant amount of information relating to their
    financial relationships with physicians. Depending on the final
    format of the DFRR, responding hospitals may be subject to
    substantial penalties as a result of enforcement actions brought
    by government agencies and whistleblowers acting pursuant to the
    False Claims Act and similar state laws, based on such
    allegations as failure to respond within required deadlines,
    that the response is inaccurate or contains incomplete
    information, or that the response indicates a potential
    violation of the Stark Law or other requirements. Any such
    investigation, enforcement action, or whistleblower allegation
    could materially adversely affect the results of our operations.


 



    We Have
    Been The Subject Of Governmental Investigations, Claims And
    Litigation


 


    Commencing in 1997, we became aware that we were the subject of
    governmental investigations and litigation relating to our
    business practices. The investigations were concluded through a
    series of agreements executed in 2000 and 2003. In January 2001,
    we entered into an eight-year Corporate Integrity Agreement
    (“CIA”) with the OIG. Under the CIA, we have numerous
    affirmative obligations, including the requirement that we
    report potential violations of applicable federal health care
    laws and regulations and have, pursuant to this obligation,
    reported a number of potential violations of the Stark Law, the
    Anti-kickback Statute, the Emergency Medical Treatment and
    Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”) and other laws, most of
    which we consider to be nonviolations or technical violations.
    The government could determine that our reporting
    and/or our
    resolution of reported issues have been inadequate. If we are
    found to be in violation of the CIA or any applicable health
    care laws or regulations, we could be subject to repayment
    requirements, substantial monetary fines, civil penalties,
    exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid and
    other federal and state health care programs, and, for
    violations of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties.
    Any such sanctions or expenses could have a material, adverse
    effect on our financial position, results of operations or
    liquidity.


 


    Health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by
    various governmental agencies. Further, under the federal False
    Claims Act, private parties have the right to bring qui
    tam, or “whistleblower,” suits against companies
    that submit false claims for payments to the government. Some
    states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims
    provisions. Companies doing business under federal health care
    programs may be contacted by various governmental agencies in
    connection with a government investigation either brought by the
    government or by a private person under a qui tam action.
    Because of the confidential nature of some government
    investigations or a confidential seal under the federal False
    Claims Act, we do not always know the particulars of the
    allegations or concerns at the time the government notifies us
    that an investigation is proceeding. Certain of our individual
    facilities have received, and other facilities may receive,
    government inquiries from federal and state agencies. Depending
    on whether the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries
    or investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution
    could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position,
    results of operations and liquidity.


 


    Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare
    Administrative Contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers,
    as well as the OIG, conduct audits of our health care
    operations. Private payers may conduct similar post-payment
    audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring.
    Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and
    whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the
    resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect
    on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.


 



    Controls
    Designed To Reduce Inpatient Services May Reduce Our
    Revenues.


 


    Controls imposed by Medicare, managed Medicare, Medicaid,
    managed Medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to
    reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as
    “utilization review,” have affected and are expected
    to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails
    the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient
    by health plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay
    and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by
    payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review
    and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative
    health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients.
    Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to
    continue. Although we are unable to predict the effect these
    changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the
    scope of services reimbursed and on



    
    26



Table of Contents




    reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse
    effect on our business, financial position and results of
    operations.


 



    Our
    Operations Could Be Impaired By A Failure Of Our Information
    Systems.


 


    Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or
    availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or
    delay the collection of revenue. Even though we have implemented
    network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to
    computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from
    unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of these events
    could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of
    data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which
    could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position
    and results of operations and harm our business reputation.


 


    The performance of our sophisticated information technology and
    systems is critical to our business operations. In addition to
    our shared services initiatives, our information systems are
    essential to a number of critical areas of our operations,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    accounting and financial reporting;




 



     
        • 

    
    billing and collecting accounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    coding and compliance;




 



     
        • 

    
    clinical systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    medical records and document storage;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory management; and




 



     
        • 

    
    negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts
    and supply contracts.





 



    State
    Efforts To Regulate The Construction Or Expansion Of Health Care
    Facilities Could Impair Our Ability To Operate And Expand Our
    Operations.


 


    Some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country,
    require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as
    a certificate of need, for the purchase, construction or
    expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital
    expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. In
    giving approval, these states consider the need for additional
    or expanded health care facilities or services. We currently
    operate health care facilities in a number of states with
    certificate of need laws. The failure to obtain any requested
    certificate of need could impair our ability to operate or
    expand operations. Any such failure could, in turn, adversely
    affect our ability to attract patients to our facilities and
    grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.


 



    Our
    Facilities Are Heavily Concentrated In Florida And Texas, Which
    Makes Us Sensitive To Regulatory, Economic, Environmental And
    Competitive Conditions And Changes In Those States.


 


    We operated 169 hospitals at December 31, 2007, and 72 of
    those hospitals are located in Florida and Texas. Our Florida
    and Texas facilities’ combined revenues represented
    approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues for the year
    ended December 31, 2007. This concentration makes us
    particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental
    and competitive conditions and changes in those states. Any
    material change in the current payment programs or regulatory,
    economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those
    states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall
    business results.


 


    In addition, our hospitals in Florida and Texas and other areas
    across the Gulf Coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. In
    the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the
    operations of our hospitals in Florida, Texas and other coastal
    states, and the patient populations in those states. Our
    business activities could be harmed by a particularly active
    hurricane season or even a single storm. In addition, the
    premiums to renew our property insurance policy for 2006 and
    2007 increased significantly over premiums incurred in 2005. Our
    current policy also includes an increase in the stated
    deductible and we were not able to obtain coverage in the
    amounts we have had under our policies prior to 2006. As a
    result of such increases in deductibles, we expect that our cash
    flows and



    
    27



Table of Contents




    profitability may be adversely affected. In addition, the
    property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses
    from future hurricanes or other natural disasters.


 



    We May Be
    Subject To Liabilities From Claims By The IRS.


 


    We are currently contesting before the Appeals Division of the
    Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) certain claimed
    deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the IRS in connection
    with its examination of the 2001 and 2002 federal income tax
    returns for HCA and 15 affiliates that are treated as
    partnerships for federal income tax purposes (“affiliated
    partnerships”). We expect the IRS will complete its
    examination of the 2003 and 2004 federal income tax returns for
    HCA and 19 affiliated partnerships during the first quarter of
    2008 and intend to contest certain claimed deficiencies and
    adjustments proposed by the IRS in connection with these audits
    before the IRS Appeals Division.


 


    The disputed items pending before the IRS Appeals Division for
    2001 and 2002, or proposed by the IRS Examination Division for
    2003 and 2004, include the deductibility of a portion of the
    2001 and 2003 government settlement payments, the timing of
    recognition of certain patient service revenues in 2001 through
    2004, the method for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful
    accounts in 2002 through 2004, and the amount of insurance
    expense deducted in 2001 and 2002.


 


    The IRS began an audit of the 2005 and 2006 federal income tax
    returns for HCA during the first quarter of 2008. We expect the
    IRS will open examinations of the 2005 and 2006 federal income
    tax for returns for one or more affiliated partnerships during
    2008.


 



    We May Be
    Subject To Liabilities From Claims Brought Against Our
    Facilities.


 


    We are subject to litigation relating to our business practices,
    including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the
    ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product
    liability or other legal theories. See Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings.” Many of these actions involve large claims
    and significant defense costs. We insure a substantial portion
    of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned
    subsidiary. Management believes our reserves for self-insured
    retentions and insurance coverage are sufficient to cover claims
    arising out of the operation of our facilities. Our wholly-owned
    insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance
    contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance
    contracts are included in its reserves for professional
    liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent
    that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the
    reinsurance contracts. If payments for claims exceed actuarially
    determined estimates, are not covered by insurance or
    reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results
    of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.


 



    We Are
    Exposed To Market Risks Related To Changes In The Market Values
    Of Securities And Interest Rate Changes.


 


    We are exposed to market risk related to changes in market
    values of securities. The investments in debt and equity
    securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were
    $1.870 billion and $29 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2007. These investments are carried at fair
    value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being
    recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. The fair
    value of investments is generally based on quoted market prices.
    At December 31, 2007, we had a net unrealized gain of
    $21 million on the insurance subsidiary’s investment
    securities.


 


    We are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity.
    Liquidity of the investments in debt and equity securities of
    our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary could be affected by the
    inability to access capital markets. At December 31, 2007,
    our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, had invested
    $725 million in municipal, tax-exempt student loan auction
    rate securities and $20 million in preferred stock auction
    rate securities which were classified as long-term investments.
    The auction rate securities (“ARS”) are publicly
    issued securities with long-term stated maturities for which the
    interest rates are reset through a Dutch auction every 35 to
    92 days. The auctions have historically provided a liquid
    market for these securities, as investors could readily sell
    their investments at auction. With the liquidity issues
    experienced in global credit and capital markets, the ARS held
    by our wholly-owned subsidiary have experienced multiple failed
    auctions, beginning on February 11, 2008, as the amount of
    securities



    
    28



Table of Contents




    submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. There
    is a very limited market for the ARS at this time. We do not
    currently intend to attempt sell the ARS as the liquidity needs
    of our insurance subsidiary are expected to be met by other
    investments in its investment portfolio. If uncertainties in the
    credit and capital markets continue or there are ratings
    downgrades on the ARS held by our insurance subsidiary, we may
    be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments on
    these long-term investments in future periods.


 


    We are also exposed to market risk related to changes in
    interest rates and periodically enter into interest rate swap
    agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. Our
    interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and
    variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on
    common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. The net
    interest payments based on the notional amounts in these
    agreements generally match the timing of the cash flows of the
    related liabilities. The notional amounts of the swap agreements
    represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows
    and are not assets or liabilities of HCA. Any market risk or
    opportunity associated with these swap agreements is offset by
    the opposite market impact on the related debt. See Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 



    Since The
    Recapitalization, The Investors Control Us And May Have
    Conflicts Of Interest With Us In The Future.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, the Investors indirectly own 97.5%
    of our capital stock due to the Recapitalization. As a result,
    the Investors have control over our decisions to enter into any
    significant corporate transaction and have the ability to
    prevent any transaction that requires the approval of
    shareholders. For example, the Investors could cause us to make
    acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or
    sell assets.


 


    Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making
    investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in
    businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or
    more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities
    that may be complementary to our business and, as a result,
    those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So
    long as investment funds associated with or designated by the
    Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the
    outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is
    less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly
    influence or effectively control our decisions.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B