Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    If any of the events discussed in the following risk factors
    were to occur, our business, financial position, results of
    operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially,
    adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also
    constrain our business and operations.


 



    Our
    Substantial Leverage Could Adversely Affect Our Ability To Raise
    Additional Capital To Fund Our Operations, Limit Our
    Ability To React To Changes In The Economy Or Our Industry,
    Expose Us To Interest Rate Risk To The Extent Of Our Variable
    Rate Debt And Prevent Us From Meeting Our Obligations.


 


    We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2009, our total
    indebtedness was $25.670 billion. Our high degree of
    leverage could have important consequences, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in
    general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse
    changes in government regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to
    be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our
    indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash
    flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future
    business opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain
    of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest;







    
    24



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing
    us to make nonstrategic divestitures;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, product or service line
    development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general
    corporate or other purposes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors who are less highly leveraged.





 


    We and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional
    indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions
    contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the
    indentures governing our outstanding notes. If new indebtedness
    is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we
    now face could intensify.


 



    We May
    Not Be Able To Generate Sufficient Cash To Service All Of Our
    Indebtedness And May Not Be Able To Refinance Our Indebtedness
    On Favorable Terms. If We Are Unable To Do So, We May Be Forced
    To Take Other Actions To Satisfy Our Obligations Under Our
    Indebtedness, Which May Not Be Successful.


 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our
    debt obligations depends on our financial condition and
    operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic
    and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business
    and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you we
    will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities
    sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any,
    and interest on our indebtedness.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, our substantial indebtedness
    included $9.702 billion of indebtedness under our senior
    secured credit facilities maturing in 2012 and 2013,
    $2.750 billion aggregate principal amount of first lien
    notes maturing in 2019 and 2020, $6.088 billion aggregate
    principal amount of second lien notes maturing in 2014, 2016 and
    2017 and $6.856 billion aggregate principal amount of
    unsecured senior notes and debentures that mature on various
    dates from 2010 to 2095 (including $5.454 billion maturing
    through 2016). Because a significant portion of our indebtedness
    matures in the next few years, we may find it necessary or
    prudent to refinance that indebtedness with longer-maturity debt
    at a higher interest rate. In February, April and August of
    2009, for example, we issued $310 million in aggregate
    principal amount of
    97/8%
    second lien notes due 2017, $1.500 billion in aggregate
    principal amount of
    81/2%
    first lien notes due 2019 and $1.250 billion in aggregate
    principal amount of
    77/8%
    first lien notes due 2020, respectively. We used the net
    proceeds of those offerings to prepay term loans under our cash
    flow credit facility, which currently bears interest at a lower
    floating rate. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness on
    favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the current
    global economic and financial conditions. In addition, our
    ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally
    enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of
    unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our
    assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash
    flows and results of operations, and on economic and market
    conditions and other factors.


 


    If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund
    our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our
    indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments
    and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional
    capital or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative
    measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our
    scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and
    available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service
    obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and
    might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to
    meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able
    to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the
    dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service
    obligations then due.


 



    Our Debt
    Agreements Contain Restrictions That Limit Our Flexibility In
    Operating Our Business.


 


    Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures
    governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that
    limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions.
    These covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’
    ability to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;







    
    25



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of
    our capital stock or make other restricted payments;




 



     
        • 

    
    make certain investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    sell or transfer assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    create liens;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or
    substantially all of our assets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.





 


    Under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for
    as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based
    revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving
    credit facility is less than a specified amount for a certain
    period of time or, if a payment or bankruptcy event of default
    has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our
    depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a
    blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to
    prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and
    to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder.


 


    Under our senior secured credit facilities, we are required to
    satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to
    meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our
    control, and there can be no assurance we will continue to meet
    those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in
    a default under both our cash flow credit facility and our
    asset-based revolving credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an
    event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, our
    lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our
    senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and
    payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.
    If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our
    senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the
    collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have
    pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under
    our senior secured credit facilities, and that collateral (other
    than certain European collateral securing our senior secured
    European term loan facility) is also pledged as collateral under
    our outstanding notes. If any of the lenders under our senior
    secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of
    borrowings, there can be no assurance we will have sufficient
    assets to repay our senior secured credit facilities or our
    outstanding notes.


 



    Our
    Hospitals Face Competition For Patients From Other Hospitals And
    Health Care Providers.


 


    The health care business is highly competitive, and competition
    among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has
    intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the
    local communities we serve provide services similar to those
    offered by our hospitals. In addition, CMS publicizes on a
    website performance data related to quality measures and data on
    patient satisfaction surveys hospitals submit in connection with
    their Medicare reimbursement. Federal law provides for the
    future expansion of the number of quality measures that must be
    reported. Additional quality measures and future trends toward
    clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our
    competitive position and patient volumes. If any of our
    hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than
    our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient
    satisfaction surveys, patient volumes could decline.


 


    In addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals,
    surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the
    geographic areas in which we operate has increased
    significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in a
    highly competitive environment. Some of the facilities that
    compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or
    not-for-profit
    corporations supported by endowments, charitable contributions
    and/or tax
    revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on
    a tax-exempt basis. Our hospitals are facing increasing
    competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and from
    both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for
    market share in high margin services and for quality physicians
    and personnel. If ambulatory surgery centers are better able to
    compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals
    may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may
    experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our
    ambulatory surgery centers. In states that do not require a CON
    for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care
    facilities or services, competition in the form of new services,
    facilities and capital spending is more prevalent.





    
    26



Table of Contents





    Further, if our competitors are better able to attract patients,
    recruit physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed
    care contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and
    ambulatory surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline
    in patient volume. See Item 1, “Business —
    Competition.”


 



    The
    Growth Of Uninsured And Patient Due Accounts And A Deterioration
    In The Collectibility Of These Accounts Could Adversely Affect
    Our Results Of Operations.


 


    The primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate
    to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which
    the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by
    the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts
    (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. The provision
    for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly
    from patients.


 


    The amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon
    management’s assessment of historical writeoffs and
    expected net collections, business and economic conditions,
    trends in federal and state governmental and private employer
    health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient
    admissions and other collection indicators. Due to a number of
    factors, including the recent economic downturn and increase in
    unemployment, we believe our facilities may experience growth in
    bad debts, uninsured discounts and charity care. At
    December 31, 2009, our allowance for doubtful accounts
    represented approximately 94% of the $5.176 billion patient
    due accounts receivable balance. The sum of the provision for
    doubtful accounts, uninsured discounts and charity care
    increased from $6.134 billion for 2007, to
    $7.009 billion for 2008 and to $8.362 billion for 2009.


 


    A continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing
    proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured
    accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these
    accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts
    receivable, cash flows and results of operations.


 



    Health
    Care Reform And Changes In Governmental Programs May Reduce Our
    Revenues.


 


    National health care reform remains a focus at the federal
    level. In the final months of 2009, both houses of the
    U.S. Congress passed separate bills intended to reform the
    health care system through, among other things, decreasing the
    number of uninsured individuals and reducing health care costs.
    While neither of these bills has yet become law, such laws or
    similar proposals have been, and we anticipate will continue to
    be, a focus at the federal level. Several states are also
    considering health care reform measures. Federal or state health
    care reform could adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.


 


    The focus on health care reform may also increase the likelihood
    of significant changes affecting existing government health care
    programs. A significant portion of our patient volumes is
    derived from government health care programs, principally
    Medicare and Medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to
    frequent and substantial changes. We derived approximately 60%
    of our admissions from the Medicare and Medicaid programs in
    2009. In recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have
    resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in
    levels of payments to health care providers for certain services
    under these government programs. Possible future changes in the
    Medicare, Medicaid, and other state programs may reduce
    reimbursements to health care providers and insurers and may
    also increase our operating costs, which could reduce our
    profitability.


 


    Effective January 1, 2008, CMS increased ASC payment groups
    from nine clinically disparate payment groups to an extensive
    list of covered surgical procedures among the APCs used under
    the outpatient PPS for these surgical services. CMS established
    a four-year transition period for implementing the revised
    payment rates and significantly expanded the number of
    procedures that Medicare reimburses if performed in an ASC. CMS
    also limited ASC reimbursement for procedures commonly performed
    in physicians’ offices. More Medicare procedures now
    performed in hospitals, such as ours, may be moved to ASCs,
    reducing surgical volume in our hospitals. Also, more Medicare
    procedures now performed in ASCs, such as ours, may be moved to
    physicians’ offices. Commercial third-party payers may
    adopt similar policies.


 


    CMS has recently completed a two-year transition to full
    implementation of the MS-DRGs system, which represents a
    refinement to the existing MS-DRG system. Realignments in the
    DRG system could impact the margins we receive for certain
    services. For federal fiscal year 2010, CMS has provided a 2.1%
    market basket update for hospitals that submit certain quality
    patient care indicators and a 0.1% update for hospitals that do
    not





    
    27



Table of Contents





    submit this data. While we will endeavor to comply with all
    quality data submission requirements, our submissions may not be
    deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market
    basket adjustment for all of our hospitals. Medicare payments to
    hospitals in federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009 were reduced to
    eliminate what CMS estimated to be the effect of coding or
    classifications changes as a result of hospitals implementing
    the MS-DRG system. If CMS retrospectively determines the
    adjustment levels for federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009 were
    inadequate, CMS may impose additional adjustments in future
    years. Although CMS has not imposed an adjustment for federal
    fiscal year 2010, CMS has announced its intent to impose payment
    adjustments in federal fiscal years 2011 and 2012 because of
    what CMS has determined to be an inadequate adjustment in
    federal fiscal year 2008. Additionally, Medicare payments to
    hospitals are subject to a number of other adjustments, and the
    actual impact on payments to specific hospitals may vary. In
    some cases, commercial third-party payers and other payers such
    as some state Medicaid programs rely on all or portions of the
    Medicare MS-DRG system to determine payment rates, and
    adjustments that negatively impact Medicare payments may also
    negatively impact payments from those payers.


 


    Since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since
    the Medicaid program is often the state’s largest program,
    states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation
    designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. The current
    economic downturn has increased the budgetary pressures on most
    states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely
    will continue to result, in decreased spending for Medicaid
    programs in many states. Further, many states have also adopted,
    or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and
    program eligibility, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care
    programs
    and/or
    impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
    the states’ Medicaid systems.


 


    On May 1, 2009, the Department of Defense implemented a
    prospective payment system for hospital outpatient services
    furnished to TRICARE beneficiaries similar to that utilized for
    services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries. Because the
    Medicare outpatient prospective payment system APC rates have
    historically been below TRICARE rates, the adoption of this
    payment methodology for TRICARE beneficiaries reduces our
    reimbursement; however, TRICARE outpatient services do not
    represent a significant portion of our patient volumes.


 


    Changes in laws or regulations regarding government health
    programs or other changes in the administration of government
    health programs could have a material, adverse effect on our
    financial position and results of operations.


 



    If We Are
    Unable To Retain And Negotiate Favorable Contracts With
    Nongovernment Payers, Including Managed Care Plans, Our Revenues
    May Be Reduced.


 


    Our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment
    payers, including health maintenance organizations, preferred
    provider organizations and other managed care plans
    significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our
    facilities. Revenues derived from these entities and other
    insurers accounted for 52% and 53% of our patient revenues for
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31,
    2008, respectively. Nongovernment payers, including managed care
    payers, continue to demand discounted fee structures, and the
    trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to
    increase their bargaining power over fee structures. Our future
    success will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew
    our managed care contracts and enter into new managed care
    contracts on terms favorable to us. Other health care providers
    may impact our ability to enter into managed care contracts or
    negotiate increases in our reimbursement and other favorable
    terms and conditions. For example, some of our competitors may
    negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or
    otherwise restrict the ability of managed care companies to
    contract with us. If we are unable to retain and negotiate
    favorable contracts with managed care plans or experience
    reductions in payment increases or amounts received from
    nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced.


 



    Our
    Performance Depends On Our Ability To Recruit And Retain Quality
    Physicians.


 


    The success of our hospitals depends in part on the number and
    quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our
    hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and
    maintaining good relations with those physicians. Although we
    employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of
    the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets
    we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other
    hospitals in addition to our hospitals. Such physicians may
    terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. If
    we are unable to provide





    
    28



Table of Contents





    adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment
    and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians,
    they may be discouraged from referring patients to our
    facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating
    performance may decline.


 



    Our
    Hospitals Face Competition For Staffing, Which May Increase
    Labor Costs And Reduce Profitability.


 


    Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and
    experience of our management and medical support personnel, such
    as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our
    physicians. We compete with other health care providers in
    recruiting and retaining qualified management and support
    personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our
    hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care
    professionals. In some markets, the availability of nurses and
    other medical support personnel has been a significant operating
    issue to health care providers. We may be required to continue
    to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and
    other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive
    temporary or contract personnel. As a result, our labor costs
    could increase. We also depend on the available labor pool of
    semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in
    which we operate. Certain proposed changes in federal labor
    laws, including the Employee Free Choice Act, could increase the
    likelihood of employee unionization attempts. To the extent a
    significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is
    possible our labor costs could increase materially. In addition,
    the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory
    nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing
    ratios already in place. State-mandated nurse-staffing ratios
    could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse
    impact on revenue if we are required to limit admissions in
    order to meet the required ratios. If our labor costs increase,
    we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased
    costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenues consists
    of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along
    increased labor costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and
    retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support
    personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material,
    adverse effect on our results of operations.


 



    If We
    Fail To Comply With Extensive Laws And Government Regulations,
    We Could Suffer Penalties Or Be Required To Make Significant
    Changes To Our Operations.


 


    The health care industry is required to comply with extensive
    and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local
    government levels relating to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    billing and coding for services;




 



     
        • 

    
    relationships with physicians and other referral sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    adequacy of medical care;




 



     
        • 

    
    quality of medical equipment and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    qualifications of medical and support personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    confidentiality, maintenance, data breach, identity theft and
    security issues associated with health-related and personal
    information and medical records;




 



     
        • 

    
    the screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who
    have emergency medical conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    licensure and certification;




 



     
        • 

    
    hospital rate or budget review;




 



     
        • 

    
    preparing and filing of cost reports;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating policies and procedures; and




 



     
        • 

    
    addition of facilities and services.





 


    Among these laws are the federal Anti-kickback Statute, the
    federal physician self-referral law (commonly called the Stark
    Law), the FCA and similar state laws. We have a variety of
    financial relationships with physicians and others who either
    refer or influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and
    other health care facilities, and these laws govern those
    relationships. The OIG has enacted safe harbor regulations that
    outline practices deemed





    
    29



Table of Contents





    protected from prosecution under the Anti-kickback Statute.
    While we endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors,
    certain of our current arrangements, including joint ventures
    and financial relationships with physicians and other referral
    sources and persons and entities to which we refer patients, do
    not qualify for safe harbor protection. Failure to qualify for a
    safe harbor does not mean the arrangement necessarily violates
    the Anti-kickback Statute, but may subject the arrangement to
    greater scrutiny. However, we cannot offer assurance that
    practices outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate
    the Anti-kickback Statute. Allegations of violations of the
    Anti-kickback Statute may be brought under the federal Civil
    Monetary Penalty Law, which requires a lower burden of proof
    than other fraud and abuse laws, including the Anti-kickback
    Statute.


 


    Our financial relationships with referring physicians and their
    immediate family members must comply with the Stark Law by
    meeting an exception. We attempt to structure our relationships
    to meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations
    implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we
    cannot provide assurance every relationship complies fully with
    the Stark Law. Unlike the Anti-kickback Statute, failure to meet
    an exception under the Stark Law results in a violation of the
    Stark Law, even if such violation is technical in nature.


 


    Additionally, if we violate the Anti-kickback Statute or Stark
    Law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found
    to violate the FCA, either under a suit brought by the
    government or by a private person under a qui tam, or
    “whistleblower,” suit.


 


    If we fail to comply with the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark
    Law, the FCA or other applicable laws and regulations, we could
    be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties
    (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more
    facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from
    participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and
    state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws
    and regulations, criminal penalties. See “Regulation.”


 


    CMS published a proposal to collect information from 400
    hospitals regarding their ownership, investment and compensation
    arrangements with physicians. Called the Disclosure of Financial
    Relationships Report (or “DFRR”), CMS intends to use
    this data to monitor compliance with the Stark Law, and CMS may
    share this information with other government agencies. Many of
    these agencies have not previously analyzed this information and
    have the authority to bring enforcement actions against
    hospitals filing such reports. The DFRR and its supporting
    documentation are currently under review by the Office of
    Management and Budget, and it is unclear when, or if, it will be
    finalized.


 


    Because many of these laws and their implementing regulations
    are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of
    significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws
    and regulations. In the future, different interpretations or
    enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our
    current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or
    illegality or could require us to make changes in our
    facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure
    programs and operating expenses. A determination we have
    violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are
    being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could
    have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business
    reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, other
    legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be
    adopted that adversely affect our business.


 



    We Have
    Been And Could Be The Subject Of Governmental Investigations,
    Claims And Litigation.


 


    Health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by
    various governmental agencies. Further, under the federal FCA,
    private parties have the right to bring qui tam, or
    “whistleblower,” suits against companies that submit
    false claims for payments to, or improperly retain overpayments
    from, the government. Some states have adopted similar state
    whistleblower and false claims provisions. Certain of our
    individual facilities have received, and other facilities may
    receive, government inquiries from federal and state agencies.
    Depending on whether the underlying conduct in these or future
    inquiries or investigations could be considered systemic, their
    resolution could have a material, adverse effect on our
    financial position, results of operations and liquidity.


 


    Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare
    Administrative Contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers,
    as well as the OIG, CMS and state Medicaid programs, conduct
    audits of our health care operations. Private payers may conduct
    similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits
    and





    
    30



Table of Contents





    monitoring. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such
    audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered
    systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material,
    adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations
    and liquidity.


 


    The MMA established the RAC three-year demonstration program to
    conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper
    payments in the
    fee-for-service
    Medicare program. The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006
    made the RAC program permanent and mandated its nationwide
    expansion by 2010. CMS has awarded contracts to four RACs that
    are implementing the permanent RAC program on a nationwide
    basis. In addition, CMS employs MICs to perform post-payment
    audits of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. Throughout
    2010, MIC audits will continue to expand. In addition to MICs,
    several other contractors, including the state Medicaid
    agencies, have increased their review activities.


 


    Should we be found out of compliance with any of these laws,
    regulations or programs, depending on the nature of the
    findings, our business, our financial position and our results
    of operations could be negatively impacted.


 



    Controls
    Designed To Reduce Inpatient Services May Reduce Our
    Revenues.


 


    Controls imposed by Medicare, managed Medicare, Medicaid,
    managed Medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to
    reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as
    “utilization review,” have affected and are expected
    to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails
    the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient
    by health plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay
    and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by
    payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review
    and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative
    health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients.
    Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to
    continue. Although we are unable to predict the effect these
    changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the
    scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees
    could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial
    position and results of operations.


 



    Our
    Overall Business Results May Suffer From The Recent Economic
    Downturn.


 


    The United States economy has weakened significantly. Depressed
    consumer spending and higher unemployment rates continue to
    pressure many industries. During economic downturns,
    governmental entities often experience budget deficits as a
    result of increased costs and lower than expected tax
    collections. These budget deficits may force federal, state and
    local government entities to decrease spending for health and
    human service programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and similar
    programs, which represent significant payer sources for our
    hospitals. Other risks we face from general economic weakness
    include potential declines in the population covered under
    managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel
    elective and non-emergency health care procedures, potential
    increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and
    further difficulties in our collecting patient co-payment and
    deductible receivables.


 



    The
    Industry Trend Towards Value-Based Purchasing May Negatively
    Impact Our Revenues.


 


    There is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based
    purchasing of health care services. These value-based purchasing
    programs include both public reporting of quality data and
    preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of
    care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including
    Medicare and Medicaid require hospitals to report certain
    quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition,
    Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain
    preventable adverse events (also called “never
    events”). Many large commercial payers currently require
    hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers
    do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse
    events. Further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which
    we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or
    expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. We
    expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that
    condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become
    more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement
    amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend
    will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively
    impact our revenues.




    
    31



Table of Contents






    Our
    Operations Could Be Impaired By A Failure Of Our Information
    Systems.


 


    Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or
    availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or
    delay the collection of revenues. Even though we have
    implemented network security measures, our servers are
    vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar
    disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any
    of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss
    or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of
    systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on
    our financial position and results of operations and harm our
    business reputation.


 


    The performance of our information technology and systems is
    critical to our business operations. In addition to our shared
    services initiatives, our information systems are essential to a
    number of critical areas of our operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    accounting and financial reporting;




 



     
        • 

    
    billing and collecting accounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    coding and compliance;




 



     
        • 

    
    clinical systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    medical records and document storage;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory management;




 



     
        • 

    
    negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts
    and supply contracts; and




 



     
        • 

    
    monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality
    measures necessary for full Medicare payment updates.





 



    If We
    Fail To Effectively And Timely Implement Electronic Health
    Record Systems, Our Operations Could Be Adversely
    Affected.


 


    As required by ARRA, HHS is in the process of developing and
    implementing an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals
    and health care professionals that adopt and meaningfully use
    certified electronic health record (“EHR”) technology.
    If our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet
    the requirements for participation in the incentive payment
    program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments
    that could offset some of the costs of implementing EHR systems.
    Further, beginning in 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals
    that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR
    technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare.
    Failure to implement EHR systems effectively and in a timely
    manner could have a material, adverse effect on our financial
    position and results of operations.


 



    State
    Efforts To Regulate The Construction Or Expansion Of Health Care
    Facilities Could Impair Our Ability To Operate And Expand Our
    Operations.


 


    Some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country,
    require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as
    a CON, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health
    care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make
    changes in services or bed capacity. In giving approval, these
    states consider the need for additional or expanded health care
    facilities or services. We currently operate health care
    facilities in a number of states with CON laws. The failure to
    obtain any requested CON could impair our ability to operate or
    expand operations. Any such failure could, in turn, adversely
    affect our ability to attract patients to our facilities and
    grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.


 



    Our
    Facilities Are Heavily Concentrated In Florida And Texas, Which
    Makes Us Sensitive To Regulatory, Economic, Environmental And
    Competitive Conditions And Changes In Those States.


 


    We operated 163 hospitals at December 31, 2009, and 73 of
    those hospitals are located in Florida and Texas. Our Florida
    and Texas facilities’ combined revenues represented
    approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues for the year
    ended December 31, 2009. This concentration makes us
    particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic,





    
    32



Table of Contents





    environmental and competitive conditions and changes in those
    states. Any material change in the current payment programs or
    regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in
    those states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall
    business results.


 


    In addition, our hospitals in Florida and Texas and other areas
    across the Gulf Coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. In
    the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the
    operations of our hospitals in Florida, Texas and other coastal
    states, and the patient populations in those states. Our
    business activities could be harmed by a particularly active
    hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property
    insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from
    future hurricanes or other natural disasters.


 



    We May Be
    Subject To Liabilities From Claims By The Internal Revenue
    Service.


 


    At December 31, 2009, we were contesting before the Appeals
    Division of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”)
    certain claimed deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the IRS
    in connection with its examination of the 2003 and 2004 federal
    income tax returns for HCA and eight affiliates that are treated
    as partnerships for federal income tax purposes
    (“affiliated partnerships”). The disputed items
    include the timing of recognition of certain patient service
    revenues and our method for calculating the tax allowance for
    doubtful accounts.


 


    Six taxable periods of HCA and its predecessors ended in 1997
    through 2002 and the 2002 taxable year of four affiliated
    partnerships, for which the primary remaining issue is the
    computation of the tax allowance for doubtful accounts, are
    pending before the IRS Examination Division as of
    December 31, 2009.


 


    The IRS began an audit of the 2005 and 2006 federal income tax
    returns for HCA and seven affiliated partnerships during 2008.
    We anticipate the IRS Examination Division will conclude its
    audit in 2010. During 2009, the seven affiliated partnership
    audits were resolved with no material impact on our operations
    or financial position. We anticipate the IRS will begin an audit
    of the 2007 and 2008 federal income tax returns for HCA during
    2010.


 


    Management believes HCA, its predecessors and affiliates
    properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in accordance
    with applicable laws and agreements established with the IRS and
    final resolution of these disputes will not have a material,
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    position. However, if payments due upon final resolution of
    these issues exceed our recorded estimates, such resolutions
    could have a material, adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial position.


 



    We May Be
    Subject To Liabilities From Claims Brought Against Our
    Facilities.


 


    We are subject to litigation relating to our business practices,
    including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the
    ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product
    liability or other legal theories. See Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings.” Many of these actions involve large claims
    and significant defense costs. We insure a portion of our
    professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary.
    Management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and
    insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims
    arising out of the operation of our facilities. Our wholly-owned
    insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance
    contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance
    contracts are included in its reserves for professional
    liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent
    that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the
    reinsurance contracts. If payments for claims exceed actuarially
    determined estimates, are not covered by insurance, or
    reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results
    of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.


 



    We Are
    Exposed To Market Risks Related To Changes In The Market Values
    Of Securities And Interest Rate Changes.


 


    We are exposed to market risk related to changes in market
    values of securities. The investments in debt and equity
    securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were
    $1.309 billion and $7 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2009. These investments are carried at fair
    value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being
    recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. At
    December 31, 2009, we had a net unrealized gain of
    $20 million on the insurance subsidiary’s investment
    securities.


 


    We are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity.
    Liquidity of the investments in debt and equity securities of
    our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary could be impaired by the
    inability to access the capital markets.





    
    33



Table of Contents





    Should the wholly-owned insurance subsidiary require significant
    amounts of cash in excess of normal cash requirements to pay
    claims and other expenses on short notice, we may have
    difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or be
    forced to sell them at a price less than what we might otherwise
    have been able to in a normal market environment. At
    December 31, 2009, our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary
    had invested $396 million ($401 million par value) in
    municipal, tax-exempt student loan auction rate securities
    (“ARS”) that continued to experience market
    illiquidity since February 2008 when multiple failed auctions
    occurred due to a severe credit and liquidity crisis in the
    capital markets. It is uncertain if auction-related market
    liquidity will resume for these securities. We may be required
    to recognize
    other-than-temporary
    impairments on these investments in future periods should
    issuers default on interest payments or should the fair market
    valuations of the securities deteriorate due to ratings
    downgrades or other issue specific factors.


 


    We are also exposed to market risk related to changes in
    interest rates, and we periodically enter into interest rate
    swap agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations.
    Our interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed
    and variable rate interest payments between two parties, based
    on common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. The net
    notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used
    to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets
    or liabilities. See Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Market Risk.”


 



    Since The
    Recapitalization, The Investors Control Us And May Have
    Conflicts Of Interest With Us In The Future.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, the Investors indirectly owned
    approximately 97.1% of our capital stock due to the
    Recapitalization. As a result, the Investors have control over
    our decisions to enter into any significant corporate
    transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that
    requires the approval of shareholders. For example, the
    Investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the
    amount of our indebtedness or sell assets.


 


    Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making
    investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in
    businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or
    more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities
    that may be complementary to our business and, as a result,
    those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So
    long as investment funds associated with or designated by the
    Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the
    outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is
    less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly
    influence or effectively control our decisions.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B