Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Risk
    Factors


 


    If any of the events discussed in the following risk factors
    were to occur, our business, financial position, results of
    operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially,
    adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also
    constrain our business and operations.


 


    Our Substantial Leverage Could Adversely Affect Our Ability
    To Raise Additional Capital To Fund Our Operations, Limit
    Our Ability To React To Changes In The Economy Or Our Industry,
    Expose Us To Interest Rate Risk To The Extent Of Our Variable
    Rate Debt And Prevent Us From Meeting Our Obligations.


 


    Since completing the Recapitalization, we are highly leveraged.
    As of December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was
    $26.989 billion. Our high degree of leverage could have
    important consequences, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in
    general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse
    changes in government regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to
    be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our
    indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash
    flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future
    business opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain
    of our unhedged borrowings are at variable rates of interest;




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions or causing
    us to make nonstrategic divestitures;






    
    22



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working
    capital, capital expenditures, product or service line
    development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general
    corporate or other purposes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and
    placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our
    competitors who are less highly leveraged.





 


    We and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional
    indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions
    contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the
    indentures governing our outstanding notes. If new indebtedness
    is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we
    now face could intensify.


 



    We May
    Not Be Able To Generate Sufficient Cash To Service All Of Our
    Indebtedness And May Not Be Able To Refinance Our Indebtedness
    On Favorable Terms. If We Are Unable To Do So, We May Be Forced
    To Take Other Actions To Satisfy Our Obligations Under Our
    Indebtedness, Which May Not Be Successful.


 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our
    debt obligations depends on our financial condition and
    operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic
    and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business
    and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that
    we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities
    sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any,
    and interest on our indebtedness.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, our substantial indebtedness
    included $14.052 billion of indebtedness under our senior
    secured credit facilities that matures in 2012 and 2013,
    $5.700 billion of second lien notes maturing in 2014 and
    2016 and $6.831 billion of unsecured senior notes and
    debentures that mature on various dates from 2009 to 2095
    (including $5.442 billion maturing through 2016). Because a
    significant portion of our indebtedness matures in the next few
    years, we may find it necessary or prudent to refinance that
    indebtedness with longer-maturity debt at a higher interest
    rate. In February 2009, for example, we issued $310 million
    of
    97/8% Senior
    Secured Notes due in 2017. We used the net proceeds of that
    offering to prepay term loans under our senior secured credit
    facilities, which currently bear interest at a lower floating
    rate. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable
    terms, or at all, is directly affected by the current global
    economic and financial crisis. In addition, our ability to incur
    secured indebtedness (which may enable us to achieve better
    pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends
    in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on
    the strength of our cash flows and results of operations and on
    economic and market conditions and other factors.


 


    If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund
    our debt service obligations or we are unable to refinance our
    indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments
    and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional
    capital or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative
    measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our
    scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and
    available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service
    obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and
    might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to
    meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able
    to consummate those dispositions, or the proceeds from the
    dispositions may not be adequate to meet any debt service
    obligations then due.


 



    Our Debt
    Agreements Contain Restrictions That Limit Our Flexibility In
    Operating Our Business.


 


    Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures
    governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that
    limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions.
    These covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’
    ability to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares;




 



     
        • 

    
    pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of
    our capital stock or make other restricted payments;




 



     
        • 

    
    make certain investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    sell or transfer assets;






    
    23



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    create liens;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or
    substantially all of our assets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.





 


    Under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for
    as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based
    revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving
    credit facility is less than a specified amount, for a certain
    period of time, or if a payment or bankruptcy event of default
    has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our
    depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a
    blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to
    prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and
    to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder.


 


    Under our senior secured credit facilities we are required to
    satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to
    meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our
    control, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to
    meet those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could
    result in a default under both of our senior secured credit
    facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our
    senior secured credit facilities, our lenders could elect to
    declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit
    facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all
    commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay
    those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit
    facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them
    to secure each such indebtedness. We have pledged a significant
    portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured
    credit facilities and our existing senior secured notes. If any
    of the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities
    accelerate the repayment of borrowings, there can be no
    assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our
    senior secured credit facilities and our outstanding notes.


 



    Our
    Hospitals Face Competition For Patients From Other Hospitals And
    Health Care Providers.


 


    The health care business is highly competitive, and competition
    among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has
    intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the
    local communities served by most of our hospitals provide
    services similar to those offered by our hospitals. In addition,
    CMS publicizes on a website performance data related to quality
    measures and data on patient satisfaction surveys that hospitals
    submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. Federal
    law provides for the future expansion of the number of quality
    measures that must be reported. Additional quality measures and
    future trends toward clinical transparency may have an
    unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient
    volumes. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or
    results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality
    measures or on patient satisfaction surveys, patient volumes
    could decline.


 


    In addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals,
    surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the
    geographic areas in which we operate has increased
    significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in a
    highly competitive environment. Some of the facilities that
    compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or
    not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable
    contributions
    and/or tax
    revenues and can finance capital expenditures and operations on
    a tax-exempt basis. Our hospitals are facing increasing
    competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and from
    both our own and unaffiliated freestanding surgery centers for
    market share in high margin services and for quality physicians
    and personnel. If ambulatory surgery centers are better able to
    compete in this environment than our hospitals, our hospitals
    may experience a decline in patient volume, and we may
    experience a decrease in margin, even if those patients use our
    ambulatory surgery centers. In states that do not require prior
    regulatory approval, known as a certificate of need
    (“CON”), for the purchase, construction or expansion
    of health care facilities or services, competing health care
    providers face low barriers to entry and expansion. Further, if
    our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit
    physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care
    contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory
    surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient
    volume. See Item 1, “Business —
    Competition.”



    
    24



Table of Contents





    The
    Growth Of Uninsured And Patient Due Accounts And A Deterioration
    In The Collectibility Of These Accounts Could Adversely Affect
    Our Results Of Operations.


 


    The primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate
    to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which
    the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by
    the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts
    (deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. The provision
    for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly
    from patients.


 


    The amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon
    management’s assessment of historical writeoffs and
    expected net collections, business and economic conditions,
    trends in federal and state governmental and private employer
    health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient
    admissions and other collection indicators. Due to a number of
    factors, including the recent economic downturn and increase in
    unemployment, we believe that our facilities may experience
    growth in bad debts and charity care. At December 31, 2008,
    our allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately
    93% of the $5.838 billion patient due accounts receivable
    balance. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the
    provision for doubtful accounts increased to 12.0% of revenues
    compared to 11.7% of revenues in 2007.


 


    A continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing
    proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured
    accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these
    accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts
    receivable, cash flows and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    In Governmental And Judicial Interpretations May Negatively
    Impact Our Ability To Obtain Reimbursement Of Medicare Bad
    Debts


 


    The Medicare program reimburses 70% of bad debts related to
    deductibles and coinsurance for patients with Medicare coverage,
    after the provider has made a reasonable effort to collect those
    amounts. We utilize extensive in-house and external collection
    efforts for our accounts receivable, including deductible and
    coinsurance amounts owed by patients with Medicare coverage. We
    use a secondary collection agency after in-house and primary
    collection agency efforts have been unsuccessful. A recent court
    case upheld CMS’s interpretation that reasonable collection
    efforts have not been satisfied as long as the Medicare accounts
    remain with an external collection agency. We incur substantial
    amounts of Medicare bad debts every year that could be subject
    to this decision. During 2007, we modified our accounts
    receivable collection processes to provide reasonable collection
    results and comply with CMS’s interpretation of reasonable
    collection efforts. Possible future changes in judicial and
    administrative interpretations of law and regulations governing
    Medicare could disrupt our collections processes, increase our
    costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.


 



    Changes
    In Governmental Programs May Reduce Our Revenues.


 


    A significant portion of our patient volumes is derived from
    government health care programs, principally Medicare and
    Medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and
    substantial changes. We derived approximately 59% of our
    admissions from the Medicare and Medicaid programs in 2008. In
    recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted
    in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of
    payments to health care providers for certain services under
    these government programs. National health care reform is a
    focus at the federal level, and we anticipate that it will
    remain a focus in the near term. Several states are also
    considering health care reform measures. This focus on health
    care reform may increase the likelihood of significant changes
    affecting government health care programs. Possible future
    changes in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other state programs, may
    reduce reimbursements to health care providers and insurers and
    may also increase our operating costs, which could reduce our
    profitability.


 


    CMS issued final regulations effective January 1, 2008 that
    increased ASC payment groups from nine clinically disparate
    payment groups to an extensive list of covered surgical
    procedures among the APCs used under the outpatient PPS for
    these surgical services. CMS estimates that the payment rates
    for procedures performed in an ASC setting equal 65% of the
    corresponding rates paid for the same procedures performed in an
    outpatient hospital setting. The final regulation establishes a
    four-year transition period for implementing the revised payment
    rates. This regulation significantly expands the number of
    procedures that Medicare reimburses if performed in an ASC and
    limits ASC reimbursement for procedures commonly performed in
    physicians’ offices. More Medicare



    
    25



Table of Contents




    procedures that are now performed in hospitals, such as ours,
    may be moved to ASCs, reducing surgical volume in our hospitals.
    Also, more Medicare procedures that are now performed in ASCs,
    such as ours, may be moved to physicians’ offices.
    Commercial third-party payers may adopt similar policies.


 


    On August 22, 2007, CMS issued a final rule for federal
    fiscal year 2008 for hospital inpatient PPS. This rule adopts a
    two-year implementation of MS-DRGs, a Medicare severity-adjusted
    diagnosis related group system. This change represents a
    refinement to the existing Medicare DRG system. Realignments in
    the DRG system could impact the margins we receive for certain
    services. For federal fiscal year 2009, CMS has provided a 3.6%
    market basket update for hospitals that submit certain quality
    patient care indicators and a 1.6% update for hospitals that do
    not submit this data. While we will endeavor to comply with all
    quality data submission requirements, our submissions may not be
    deemed timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market
    basket adjustment for all of our hospitals. Medicare payments to
    hospitals in fiscal years 2009 and 2008 have been reduced to
    eliminate what CMS estimates will be the effect of coding or
    classifications changes as a result of hospitals implementing
    the MS-DRG system. CMS may retrospectively determine if the
    adjustment levels for federal fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were
    adequate and may impose an adjustment in future years if CMS
    finds that the adjustment was inadequate. Additionally, Medicare
    payments to hospitals are subject to a number of other
    adjustments, and the actual impact on payments to specific
    hospitals may vary. In some cases, commercial third-party payers
    and other payers such as some state Medicaid programs rely on
    all or portions of the Medicare DRG system to determine payment
    rates. The change from traditional Medicare DRGs to MS-DRGs
    could adversely impact those payment rates if any other payers
    adopt MS-DRGs.


 


    Since most states must operate with balanced budgets and since
    the Medicaid program is often the state’s largest program,
    states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation
    designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. The current
    economic downturn has increased the budgetary pressures on most
    states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted and likely
    will continue to result in decreased spending for Medicaid
    programs in many states. Further, many states have also adopted,
    or are considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and
    program eligibility, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care
    programs
    and/or
    impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
    the states’ Medicaid systems.


 


    Recently, the Department of Defense implemented a prospective
    payment system for hospital outpatient services furnished to
    TRICARE beneficiaries similar to that utilized for services
    furnished to Medicare beneficiaries. Because the Medicare
    outpatient prospective payment system APC rates have
    historically been below TRICARE rates, the adoption of this
    payment methodology for TRICARE beneficiaries will reduce our
    reimbursement. This change in TRICARE will have a material
    impact on our revenues from this program; however, TRICARE
    outpatient services do not represent a significant portion of
    our patient volumes. The TRICARE outpatient payment rule has
    been reopened for comment and the effective date delayed until
    May 1, 2009. Further modification to the new outpatient
    payment system may be made.


 


    Changes in laws or regulations regarding government health
    programs or other changes in the administration of government
    health programs could have a material, adverse effect on our
    financial position and results of operations.


 



    If We Are
    Unable To Retain And Negotiate Favorable Contracts With
    Nongovernment Payers, Including Managed Care Plans, Our Revenues
    May Be Reduced.


 


    Our ability to obtain favorable contracts with nongovernment
    payers, including health maintenance organizations, preferred
    provider organizations and other managed care plans
    significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our
    facilities. Revenues derived from these entities and other
    insurers accounted for 53% and 54% of our patient revenues for
    the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Nongovernment payers, including managed care payers, continue to
    demand discounted fee structures, and the trend toward
    consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to increase their
    bargaining power over fee structures. Our future success will
    depend, in part, on our ability to retain and renew our managed
    care contracts and enter into new managed care contracts on
    terms favorable to us. Other health care providers may impact
    our ability to enter into managed care contracts or negotiate
    increases in our reimbursement and other favorable terms and
    conditions. For example, some of our competitors may negotiate
    exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise
    restrict the ability of



    
    26



Table of Contents




    managed care companies to contract with us. If we are unable to
    retain and negotiate favorable contracts with managed care plans
    or experience reductions in payment increases or amounts
    received from nongovernment payers, our revenues may be reduced.


 



    Our
    Performance Depends On Our Ability To Recruit And Retain Quality
    Physicians.


 


    Physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions,
    and the success of our hospitals depends, therefore, in part on
    the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs
    of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians
    and maintaining good relations with those physicians. Physicians
    are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice
    and, in many of the markets that we serve, most physicians have
    admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our
    hospitals. Such physicians may terminate their affiliation with
    our hospitals at any time. If we are unable to provide adequate
    support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and
    hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians,
    they may be discouraged from referring patients to our
    facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating
    performance may decline.


 



    Our
    Hospitals Face Competition For Staffing, Which May Increase
    Labor Costs And Reduce Profitability.


 


    Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and
    experience of our management and medical support personnel, such
    as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our
    physicians. We compete with other health care providers in
    recruiting and retaining qualified management and support
    personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our
    hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care
    professionals. In some markets, the availability of nurses and
    other medical support personnel has become a significant
    operating issue to health care providers. We may be required to
    continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain
    nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more
    expensive temporary or contract personnel. We also depend on the
    available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in
    each of the markets in which we operate. As the competition
    increases to hire more people from labor pools that are not
    growing at a rate sufficient to meet demand, our labor costs
    could increase. Certain proposed changes in federal labor laws,
    including the Employee Free Choice Act, may increase the
    likelihood of employee unionization attempts. To the extent that
    a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, our costs
    could increase materially. In addition, union-mandated or
    state-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect
    labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenue if we are
    unable to meet the required ratios and are required to limit
    admissions as a result. If our labor costs increase, we may not
    be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because
    a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed,
    prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor
    costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain
    qualified management, nurses and other medical support
    personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material,
    adverse effect on our results of operations.


 



    If We
    Fail To Comply With Extensive Laws And Government Regulations,
    We Could Suffer Penalties Or Be Required To Make Significant
    Changes To Our Operations.


 


    The health care industry is required to comply with extensive
    and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local
    government levels relating to, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    billing for services;




 



     
        • 

    
    relationships with physicians and other referral sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    adequacy of medical care;




 



     
        • 

    
    quality of medical equipment and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    qualifications of medical and support personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with
    health-related information and medical records;




 



     
        • 

    
    the screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who
    have emergency medical conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    licensure and certification;






    
    27



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    hospital rate or budget review;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating policies and procedures; and




 



     
        • 

    
    addition of facilities and services.





 


    Among these laws are the federal Anti-kickback Statute, the
    federal physician self-referral law (commonly called the Stark
    Law) and the federal FCA and similar state laws. We have a
    variety of financial relationships with physicians and others
    who either refer or influence the referral of patients to our
    hospitals and other health care facilities, and these laws
    govern those relationships. The OIG has enacted safe harbor
    regulations that outline practices that are deemed protected
    from prosecution under the Anti-kickback Statute. While we
    endeavor to comply with the applicable safe harbors, certain of
    our current arrangements, including joint ventures and financial
    relationships with physicians and other referral sources and
    persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify
    for safe harbor protection. Failure to qualify for a safe harbor
    does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the
    Anti-kickback Statute but may subject the arrangement to greater
    scrutiny; however, we cannot offer assurance that practices
    outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the
    Anti-kickback Statute. Allegations of violations of the
    Anti-kickback Statute may be brought under the federal Civil
    Monetary Penalty Law, which requires a lower burden of proof
    than other fraud and abuse laws, including the Anti-kickback
    Statute.


 


    Our financial relationships with referring physicians and their
    immediate family members must comply with the Stark Law by
    meeting an exception. We attempt to structure our relationships
    to meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations
    implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we
    cannot assure that every relationship complies fully with the
    Stark Law. Unlike the Anti-kickback Statute, failure to meet an
    exception under the Stark Law results in a violation of the
    Stark Law, even if such violation is technical in nature.


 


    Additionally, if we violate the Anti-kickback Statute or Stark
    Law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found
    to violate the FCA, either under a suit brought by the
    government or by a private person under a qui tam,
    or “whistleblower,” suit.


 


    If we fail to comply with the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark
    Law, the FCA or other applicable laws and regulations, we could
    be subjected to liabilities, including civil penalties
    (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more
    facilities), exclusion of one or more facilities from
    participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and
    state health care programs and, for violations of certain laws
    and regulations, criminal penalties. See “Regulation.”


 


    CMS is proceeding with a proposal to collect information from
    400 hospitals regarding their ownership, investment and
    compensation arrangements with physicians. Called the Disclosure
    of Financial Relationships Report or “DFRR,” CMS
    intends to use this data to monitor compliance with the Stark
    Law, and CMS may share this information with other government
    agencies. Many of these agencies have not previously analyzed
    this information and have the authority to bring enforcement
    actions against hospitals filing such reports.


 


    Because many of these laws and their implementing regulations
    are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of
    significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws
    and regulations. In the future, different interpretations or
    enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our
    current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or
    illegality or could require us to make changes in our
    facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure
    programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have
    violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are
    being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could
    have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business
    reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, other
    legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be
    adopted that adversely affect our business.


 



         We
    Have Been The Subject Of Governmental Investigations, Claims And
    Litigation, And We Could Be The Subject Of Additional
    Investigations In The Future.


 


    Commencing in 1997, we became aware that we were the subject of
    governmental investigations and litigation relating to our
    business practices. The investigations were concluded through a
    series of agreements executed in 2000 and 2003. In January 2001,
    we entered into an eight-year CIA with the OIG, which expired
    January 24, 2009.



    
    28



Table of Contents




    Under the CIA, we had numerous affirmative obligations,
    including the requirement to report potential violations of
    applicable federal health care laws and regulations. Pursuant to
    these obligations, we reported a number of potential violations
    of the Stark Law, the Anti-kickback Statute, the EMTALA and
    other laws, most of which we consider to be nonviolations or
    technical violations. We will submit our final report pursuant
    to the CIA by April 30, 2009. The government could
    determine that our reporting
    and/or our
    resolution of reported issues was inadequate. If we are found to
    have violated the CIA or any applicable health care laws or
    regulations, we could be subject to repayment requirements,
    substantial monetary fines, civil penalties, exclusion from
    participation in the Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and
    state health care programs, and, for violations of certain laws
    and regulations, criminal penalties. Any such sanctions or
    expenses could have a material, adverse effect on our financial
    position, results of operations or liquidity.


 


    Health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by
    various governmental agencies. Further, under the federal FCA,
    private parties have the right to bring qui tam, or
    “whistleblower,” suits against companies that submit
    false claims for payments to the government. Some states have
    adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions.
    Certain of our individual facilities have received, and other
    facilities may receive, government inquiries from federal and
    state agencies. Depending on whether the underlying conduct in
    these or future inquiries or investigations could be considered
    systemic, their resolution could have a material, adverse effect
    on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.


 


    Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare
    Administrative Contractors, fiscal intermediaries and carriers,
    as well as the OIG, conduct audits of our health care
    operations. Private payers may conduct similar post-payment
    audits, and we also perform internal audits and monitoring.
    Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and
    whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the
    resolution of these audits could have a material, adverse effect
    on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.


 


    The MMA established the RAC three-year demonstration program to
    conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper
    payments in the fee-for-service Medicare program. Beginning in
    2005, CMS contracted with three different RACs to conduct these
    reviews in California, Florida and New York. The program was
    expanded in August 2007 to include Arizona, Massachusetts and
    South Carolina. We had 46 hospitals located in the demonstration
    areas and 44 of these hospitals actually had a review performed.
    The Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 made the RAC program
    permanent and mandated its nationwide expansion by 2010. Should
    we be found out of compliance, depending on the nature of the
    findings, our business, our financial position and our results
    of operations could be negatively impacted.


 



    Controls
    Designed To Reduce Inpatient Services May Reduce Our
    Revenues.


 


    Controls imposed by Medicare, managed Medicare, Medicaid,
    managed Medicaid and commercial third-party payers designed to
    reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as
    “utilization review,” have affected and are expected
    to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization review entails
    the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient
    by health plans. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay
    and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by
    payer-required preadmission authorization and utilization review
    and by payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative
    health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients.
    Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to
    continue. Although we are unable to predict the effect these
    changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the
    scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees
    could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial
    position and results of operations.


 



    Our
    Overall Business Results May Suffer From The Recent Economic
    Downturn.


 


    Recently, the United States economy has weakened
    significantly. Tightening credit markets, depressed consumer
    spending and higher unemployment rates continue to pressure many
    industries. During economic downturns, governmental entities
    often experience budgetary constraints as a result of increased
    costs and lower than expected tax collections. These budgetary
    constraints may result in decreased spending for health and
    human service programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and similar
    programs, which represent significant payer sources for our
    hospitals. Other risks we face from general economic weakness
    include potential declines in the population



    
    29



Table of Contents




    covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to
    postpone or cancel elective and non-emergent healthcare
    procedures, potential increases in the uninsured and
    underinsured populations and further difficulties in our
    collecting patient copayment and deductible receivables.


 



    The
    Industry Trend Towards Value-Based Purchasing May Negatively
    Impact Our Revenues.


 


    There is a trend in the health care industry toward value-based
    purchasing of health care services. These value-based purchasing
    programs include both public reporting of quality data and
    preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of
    care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including
    Medicare and Medicaid require hospitals to report certain
    quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition
    Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain
    preventable adverse events (also called “never
    events”). Many large commercial payers currently require
    hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers
    do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse
    events. Further, we have implemented a policy pursuant to which
    we do not bill patients or third-party payers for fees or
    expenses incurred due to certain preventable adverse events. We
    expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that
    condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become
    more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement
    amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend
    will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively
    impact our revenues.


 



    Our
    Operations Could Be Impaired By A Failure Of Our Information
    Systems.


 


    Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or
    availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or
    delay the collection of revenues. Even though we have
    implemented network security measures, our servers are
    vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar
    disruptions from unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any
    of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss
    or corruption of data, or cessations in the availability of
    systems, all of which could have a material, adverse effect on
    our financial position and results of operations and harm our
    business reputation.


 


    The performance of our sophisticated information technology and
    systems is critical to our business operations. In addition to
    our shared services initiatives, our information systems are
    essential to a number of critical areas of our operations,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    accounting and financial reporting;




 



     
        • 

    
    billing and collecting accounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    coding and compliance;




 



     
        • 

    
    clinical systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    medical records and document storage;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory management;




 



     
        • 

    
    negotiating, pricing and administering managed care contracts
    and supply contracts; and




 



     
        • 

    
    monitoring quality of care and collecting data on quality
    measures necessary for full Medicare payment updates.





 



    State
    Efforts To Regulate The Construction Or Expansion Of Health Care
    Facilities Could Impair Our Ability To Operate And Expand Our
    Operations.


 


    Some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country,
    require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as
    a CON, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health
    care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make
    changes in services or bed capacity. In giving approval, these
    states consider the need for additional or expanded health care
    facilities or services. We currently operate health care
    facilities in a number of states with CON laws. The failure to
    obtain any requested CON could impair our ability to operate or
    expand operations. Any such failure could, in turn, adversely
    affect our ability to attract patients to our facilities and
    grow our revenues, which would have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.



    
    30



Table of Contents





    Our
    Facilities Are Heavily Concentrated In Florida And Texas, Which
    Makes Us Sensitive To Regulatory, Economic, Environmental And
    Competitive Conditions And Changes In Those States.


 


    We operated 166 hospitals at December 31, 2008, and 72 of
    those hospitals are located in Florida and Texas. Our Florida
    and Texas facilities’ combined revenues represented
    approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues for the year
    ended December 31, 2008. This concentration makes us
    particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental
    and competitive conditions and changes in those states. Any
    material change in the current payment programs or regulatory,
    economic, environmental or competitive conditions in those
    states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall
    business results.


 


    In addition, our hospitals in Florida and Texas and other areas
    across the Gulf Coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. In
    the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the
    operations of our hospitals in Florida, Texas and other coastal
    states, and the patient populations in those states. Our
    business activities could be harmed by a particularly active
    hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property
    insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from
    future hurricanes or other natural disasters.


 



    We May Be
    Subject To Liabilities From Claims By The IRS.


 


    We are currently contesting before the Appeals Division of the
    Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) certain claimed
    deficiencies and adjustments proposed by the IRS in connection
    with its examination of the 2003 and 2004 federal income tax
    returns for HCA and 17 affiliates that are treated as
    partnerships for federal income tax purposes (“affiliated
    partnerships”). The disputed items include the timing of
    recognition of certain patient service revenues and our method
    for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful accounts.


 


    Eight taxable periods of HCA and its predecessors ended in 1995
    through 2002 and the 2002 taxable year of 13 affiliated
    partnerships, for which the primary remaining issue is the
    computation of the tax allowance for doubtful accounts, are
    pending before the IRS Examination Division or the United States
    Tax Court as of December 31, 2008. The IRS began an audit
    of the 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns for HCA and
    seven affiliated partnerships during 2008.


 



    We May Be
    Subject To Liabilities From Claims Brought Against Our
    Facilities.


 


    We are subject to litigation relating to our business practices,
    including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the
    ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product
    liability or other legal theories. See Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings.” Many of these actions involve large claims
    and significant defense costs. We insure a portion of our
    professional liability risks through a wholly-owned subsidiary.
    Management believes our reserves for self-insured retentions and
    insurance coverage are sufficient to cover insured claims
    arising out of the operation of our facilities. Our wholly-owned
    insurance subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance
    contracts, and the obligations covered by the reinsurance
    contracts are included in its reserves for professional
    liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable to the extent
    that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the
    reinsurance contracts. If payments for claims exceed actuarially
    determined estimates, are not covered by insurance or
    reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our results
    of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.


 



    We Are
    Exposed To Market Risks Related To Changes In The Market Values
    Of Securities And Interest Rate Changes.


 


    We are exposed to market risk related to changes in market
    values of securities. The investments in debt and equity
    securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were
    $1.614 billion and $8 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2008. These investments are carried at fair
    value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being
    recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. At
    December 31, 2008, we had a net unrealized loss of
    $48 million on the insurance subsidiary’s investment
    securities.


 


    We are exposed to market risk related to market illiquidity.
    Liquidity of the investments in debt and equity securities of
    our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary could be impaired by the
    inability to access the capital markets. Should the wholly-owned
    insurance subsidiary require significant amounts of cash in
    excess of normal cash requirements to pay claims and other
    expenses on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these
    investments in a



    
    31



Table of Contents




    timely manner or be forced to sell them at a price less than
    what we might otherwise have been able to in a normal market
    environment. At December 31, 2008, our wholly-owned
    insurance subsidiary, had invested $536 million
    ($573 million par value) in municipal, tax-exempt student
    loan auction rate securities which were classified as long-term
    investments. The auction rate securities (“ARS”) are
    publicly issued securities with long-term stated maturities for
    which the interest rates are reset through a Dutch auction every
    seven to 35 days. With the liquidity issues experienced in
    global credit and capital markets, the ARS held by our
    wholly-owned insurance subsidiary have experienced multiple
    failed auctions, beginning on February 11, 2008, as the
    amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of
    purchase orders. There is a very limited market for the ARS at
    this time. We do not currently intend to attempt to sell the ARS
    as the liquidity needs of our insurance subsidiary are expected
    to be met by other investments in its investment portfolio. If
    uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue or
    there are ratings downgrades on the ARS held by our insurance
    subsidiary, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary
    impairments on these long-term investments in future periods.


 


    We are also exposed to market risk related to changes in
    interest rates and periodically enter into interest rate swap
    agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. Our
    interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and
    variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on
    common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. The net
    interest payments based on the notional amounts in these
    agreements generally match the timing of the cash flows of the
    related liabilities. The notional amounts of the swap agreements
    represent balances used to calculate the exchange of cash flows
    and are not assets or liabilities of HCA. See Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 



    Since The
    Recapitalization, The Investors Control Us And May Have
    Conflicts Of Interest With Us In The Future.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, the Investors and certain other
    investors indirectly own 97.3% of our capital stock due to the
    Recapitalization. As a result, the Investors have control over
    our decisions to enter into any significant corporate
    transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that
    requires the approval of shareholders. For example, the
    Investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the
    amount of our indebtedness or sell assets.


 


    Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making
    investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in
    businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or
    more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities
    that may be complementary to our business and, as a result,
    those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So
    long as investment funds associated with or designated by the
    Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the
    outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is
    less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly
    influence or effectively control our decisions.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B