Item 1A — Risk
    Factors” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we had 203 employees.


 



    Customer
    Concentrations


 


    The following table summarizes certain information about our
    customer concentrations as of December 31, 2008 (dollars in
    thousands):


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Number of
    


 


 


    Total
    


 


 


    Percent of
    


 




 


 


    Properties


 


 


    Investment


 


 


    Investment(1)


 



 





    Concentration by investment:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Senior Living Communities, LLC



 


 


    10


 


 


    $


    345,974


 


 


 


    6


    %





    Signature Healthcare LLC



 


 


    34


 


 


 


    317,284


 


 


 


    5


    %





    Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. 



 


 


    86


 


 


 


    298,143


 


 


 


    5


    %





    Life Care Centers of America, Inc. 



 


 


    25


 


 


 


    264,578


 


 


 


    5


    %





    Emeritus Corporation



 


 


    21


 


 


 


    245,741


 


 


 


    4


    %





    Remaining portfolio



 


 


    457


 


 


 


    4,389,959


 


 


 


    75


    %




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Totals



 


 


    633


 


 


    $


    5,861,679


 


 


 


    100


    %




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Number of
    


 


 


    Total
    


 


 


    Percent of
    


 




 


 


    Properties


 


 


    Revenue(2)


 


 


    Revenue(3)


 



 





    Concentration by revenue(4):



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Signature Healthcare LLC



 


 


    34


 


 


    $


    41,291


 


 


 


    7


    %





    Emeritus Corporation



 


 


    21


 


 


 


    40,553


 


 


 


    7


    %





    Brookdale Senior Living, Inc. 



 


 


    86


 


 


 


    38,065


 


 


 


    7


    %





    Life Care Centers of America, Inc. 



 


 


    25


 


 


 


    27,671


 


 


 


    5


    %





    Merrill Gardens LLC



 


 


    13


 


 


 


    19,816


 


 


 


    3


    %





    Remaining portfolio



 


 


    454


 


 


 


    394,848


 


 


 


    69


    %





    Other income



 


 


    n/a


 


 


 


    10,521


 


 


 


    2


    %




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Totals



 


 


    633


 


 


    $


    572,765


 


 


 


    100


    %




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1)
    
    
    
    Investments with our top five
    customers comprised 27% of total investments at
    December 31, 2007.
    



 


    
    (2)
    
    
    
    Revenues include gross revenues and
    revenues from discontinued operations for the year ended
    December 31, 2008.
    



 


    
    (3)
    
    
    
    Revenues from our top five
    customers were 30% and 43% for the years ended December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.
    



 


    
    (4)
    
    
    
    All of our top five customers are
    in our investment properties segment.
    




 



    Certain
    Government Regulations


 



    Health
    Law Matters — Generally


 


    We invest in assisted living, skilled nursing, independent
    living/continuing care retirement communities, medical office
    buildings and specialty care facilities, which represented
    approximately 20%, 27%, 19%, 23% and 11%, respectively, of our
    investments at December 31, 2008.


 


    Typically, operators of assisted living and independent living
    facilities do not receive significant funding from governmental
    programs and are regulated by the states, not the federal
    government. Operators of skilled nursing and specialty care
    facilities do receive significant funding from governmental
    programs and are subject to federal and state laws that regulate
    the type and quality of the medical
    and/or
    nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g., respiratory,
    occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications
    of the administrative personnel and



    
    8



Table of Contents




    nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment,
    distribution of pharmaceuticals, reimbursement and rate setting
    and operating policies. In addition, as described below, a
    number of our property operators are subject to extensive laws
    and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse,
    including kickbacks, physician self-referrals and false claims.
    Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health
    care facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive
    federal, state and local licensure, certification, and
    inspection laws and regulations. Our tenants’ failure to
    comply with any of these laws could result in loss of
    accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines,
    suspension or decertification or exclusion from federal and
    state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the
    facility.


 



    Licensing
    and Certification


 


    The primary regulations that affect assisted living facilities
    are the states’ licensing laws. In granting and renewing
    these licenses, the regulatory authorities consider numerous
    factors relating to a property’s physical plant and
    operations including, but not limited to, admission and
    discharge standards and staffing and training. A decision to
    grant or renew a license is also affected by a property’s
    record with respect to patient and consumer rights and
    medication guidelines and rules. Certain of the senior housing
    facilities mortgaged to or owned by us may require the resident
    to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a portion of which may be
    refundable. These entrance fee communities are subject to
    significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example,
    oversight of each facility’s financial condition,
    establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other
    financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their
    contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in
    favor of residents, restrictions on change of ownership and
    similar matters. Such oversight and the rights of residents
    within these entrance fee communities may have an effect on the
    revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and
    therefore may adversely affect us.


 


    Skilled nursing facilities are subject to a variety of licensure
    and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations.
    CON laws in those states that have them generally require a
    facility to demonstrate the need for constructing a new
    facility, expanding an existing facility, changing the ownership
    or control of an existing licensed facility, or terminating
    services that have been approved through the CON process. CONs,
    where applicable, generally are required before a covered
    facility can construct a new facility, add beds or expand
    services, invest in major capital equipment or add new services,
    or terminate services for which the facility has previously been
    awarded a CON and a license. The CON laws and regulations may
    restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or
    expand an existing facility’s size or services. In
    addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to
    transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a
    new operator. If we have to replace a barred property operator
    (as discussed below), our ability to replace the operator may be
    affected by CON rules and policies governing changes in control.


 


    With respect to licensure, generally our skilled nursing and
    specialty care facilities are required to be licensed and
    certified for participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs. This generally requires license renewals and
    compliance surveys on an annual or bi-annual basis. The failure
    of our operators to maintain or renew any required license or
    regulatory approval or the failure to correct serious survey
    deficiencies identified in compliance surveys could prevent them
    from continuing operations at a property. In addition, if a
    property is found out of compliance with the conditions of
    participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other health care
    programs, the property may be barred from participation in
    government reimbursement programs. Any of these occurrences may
    impair the ability of our operators to meet their obligations to
    us. If we have to replace a barred property operator, our
    ability to replace the operator may be affected by federal and
    state rules and policies governing changes in control. This may
    result in payment delays, an inability to find a replacement
    operator, a significant working capital commitment from us to a
    new operator or other difficulties.


 



    Reimbursement


 


    Assisted Living Facilities.  Approximately 22%
    of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008
    were attributable to assisted living facilities. The majority of
    the revenues received by the operators of our assisted living
    facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue
    source is primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs. As a
    part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (“OBRA”)
    of 1981, Congress established a waiver program enabling some
    states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living
    facilities as an alternative



    
    9



Table of Contents




    to institutional long-term care services. The provisions of OBRA
    and the subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990 permit states to
    seek a waiver from typical Medicaid requirements to develop
    cost-effective alternatives to long-term care, including
    Medicaid payments for assisted living and home health. At
    December 31, 2008, six of our 23 assisted living
    operators received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid
    waiver programs. For the twelve months ended September 30,
    2008, approximately 10% of the revenues at our assisted living
    facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no
    guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a
    waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status.


 


    Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and
    are largely determined by local market conditions and operating
    costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day
    for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who
    requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid
    reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues
    generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be
    adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level and changes in
    Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels. In addition, a
    state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted
    to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living
    services. Changes in revenues could in turn have a material
    adverse effect on an operator’s ability to meet its
    obligations to us.


 


    Skilled Nursing Facilities and Specialty Care
    Facilities.  Skilled nursing and specialty care
    facilities typically receive most of their revenues from
    Medicare and Medicaid, with the balance representing private
    pay, including private insurance. Consequently, changes in
    federal or state reimbursement policies may also adversely
    affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses,
    including our rent or debt service. Skilled nursing and
    specialty care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and
    post-payment reviews and other audits by federal and state
    authorities. A review or audit of claims of a property operator
    could result in recoupments, denials or delays of payments in
    the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the
    operator’s ability to meet its obligations to us. Due to
    the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor
    settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the
    adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators
    for potential adjustments to reimbursements for payor
    settlements. Due to budgetary constraints, governmental payors
    may limit or reduce payments to skilled nursing and specialty
    care facilities. As a result of government reimbursement
    programs being subject to such budgetary pressures and
    legislative and administrative actions, an operator’s
    ability to meet its obligations to us may be significantly
    impaired.


 


    Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing
    Facilities.  For the twelve months ended
    September 30, 2008, approximately 30% of the revenues at
    our skilled nursing facilities (which comprised 31% of our
    rental revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2008) were from Medicare reimbursement. Skilled nursing
    facilities are reimbursed under the skilled nursing facility
    prospective payment system. This type of reimbursement program
    puts facilities at risk to the extent that their costs exceed
    the fixed payments under the prospective payment system. In
    addition, there is a risk that payments under the prospective
    payment system may be set too low, which could result in
    immediate financial difficulties for skilled nursing facilities
    and cause operators to seek bankruptcy protection. Skilled
    nursing facilities have had these types of difficulties since
    the implementation of the prospective payment system.


 


    Skilled nursing facilities received a 3.4% inflationary market
    basket increase in Medicare payments for federal fiscal year
    2009, which represents $780 million of additional Medicare
    spending. Section 5008 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005
    directs the Secretary (as defined in that statute) to conduct a
    demonstration program beginning January 1, 2008 assessing
    the costs and outcomes of patients discharged from hospitals in
    a variety of post-acute care settings, including skilled nursing
    facilities. The outcome of that demonstration program could lead
    to changes in Medicare coverage and reimbursement for post-acute
    care. It is not known how either the demonstration program, or
    any other changes in Medicare reimbursement or regulatory
    obligations that might be proposed, might impact tenants of the
    Company’s properties.


 


    The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 mandated caps on Medicare
    reimbursement for certain therapy services. However, Congress
    imposed various moratoriums on the implementation of those caps.
    The moratoriums on the therapy caps for Part B outpatient
    rehabilitation services expired December 31, 2005. The
    annual payment cap of $1,810 per patient applies to occupational
    therapy and a separate $1,810 cap applies to speech and physical
    therapy. Congress has permitted patients exceeding the cap to
    obtain additional Medicare coverage through a waiver program if
    the therapy is deemed medically necessary. The waiver program
    was most recently extended under the Medicare Improvements for
    Patients and Providers Act of 2008 through December 31,
    2009. If the waiver is



    
    10



Table of Contents




    allowed to expire, patients will need to use private funds to
    pay for the cost of therapy above the caps. The waiver has
    historically been extended.


 


    Medicare Reimbursement and Specialty Care
    Facilities.  For the twelve months ended
    September 30, 2008, approximately 43% of the revenues at
    our specialty care facilities (which comprised 8% of our rental
    revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008) were
    from Medicare. Specialty care facilities generally are
    reimbursed by Medicare under either the diagnosis related group
    prospective payment system reimbursement methodology for
    inpatient hospitals, or the long-term acute care hospital
    prospective payment system for long-term acute care hospitals or
    the inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective payment
    system. Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient
    and outpatient services including, but not limited to, surgery,
    rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories. Long-term
    acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for patients
    with complex medical conditions that require more intensive
    care, monitoring or emergency support than that available in
    most skilled nursing facilities. Inpatient rehabilitation
    facilities provide intensive rehabilitation services in an
    inpatient setting for patients requiring at least three hours of
    rehabilitation services a day.


 


    With respect to Medicare’s diagnosis related
    group/outpatient prospective payment system methodology for
    regular hospitals, reimbursement for inpatient services is made
    on the basis of a fixed, prospective rate based on the principal
    diagnosis of the patient. Hospitals are at risk to the extent
    that their costs in treating a specific case exceed the fixed
    payment. The diagnosis related group reimbursement system was
    changed in 2008, with the expansion of diagnosis groups from 538
    to 745 diagnosis related groups to greater reflect severity. It
    is possible that this change in the DRG system will adversely
    impact reimbursement for some of our hospitals. In some cases, a
    hospital might be able to qualify for an outlier payment if the
    hospital’s losses exceed a threshold.


 


    Medicaid Reimbursement.  Medicaid is a major
    payor source for residents in our skilled nursing and specialty
    care facilities. For the twelve months ended September 30,
    2008, approximately 51% of the revenues of our skilled nursing
    facilities and 19% of the revenues of our specialty care
    facilities were attributable to Medicaid payments. The federal
    government and the states share responsibility for financing
    Medicaid. The federal matching rate, known as the Federal
    Medical Assistance Percentage, varies by state based on relative
    per capita income, but is at least 50% in all states. On
    average, Medicaid is the largest component of total state
    spending, representing approximately 21% of total state
    spending. The percentage of Medicaid dollars used for long-term
    care varies from state to state due in part to different ratios
    of elderly population and eligibility requirements. Within
    certain federal guidelines, states have a wide range of
    discretion to determine eligibility and reimbursement
    methodology. Many states reimburse long-term care facilities
    using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based
    on patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing
    patient care. Reasonable costs typically include allowances for
    staffing, administrative and general, and property and equipment
    (e.g., real estate taxes, depreciation and fair rental).


 


    In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of
    providing skilled nursing services. Certain states are
    attempting to slow the rate of growth in Medicaid expenditures
    by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits. At
    the beginning of their respective fiscal years, states in which
    we have skilled nursing property investments increased their per
    diem Medicaid rates roughly 1.7% on average for fiscal year 2009
    and seven of our states effectively froze rates, which will
    impact profitability to the extent that expenses continue to
    rise. Our skilled nursing portfolio’s average Medicaid rate
    will likely vary throughout the year as states continue to make
    interim changes to their budgets and Medicaid funding. In
    addition, Medicaid rates may decline if revenues in a particular
    state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.


 


    The Medicare Part D drug benefit became effective
    January 1, 2006. Nursing home residents dually eligible for
    Medicare (and enrolled in one of the new Part D plans) and
    Medicaid may now enroll and receive reimbursement for drugs
    through Medicare Part D rather than through Medicaid.
    Part D will result in increased administrative
    responsibilities for nursing home operators because enrollment
    in Part D is voluntary and residents have the choice of
    multiple prescription drug plans. Operators may also experience
    increased expenses to the extent that patients’ specific
    prescribed drugs may not be on the Part D drug plan
    formulary for the plan in which specific patients are enrolled.


 


    The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care
    facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities
    have considered and may seek to implement new or modified
    reimbursement methodologies that may



    
    11



Table of Contents




    negatively impact health care property operations. The impact of
    any such change, if implemented, may result in a material
    adverse effect on our skilled nursing and specialty care
    property operations. No assurance can be given that current
    revenue sources or levels will be maintained. Accordingly, there
    can be no assurance that payments under a government
    reimbursement program are currently, or will be in the future,
    sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their
    operating and capital expenses. As a result, an operator’s
    ability to meet its obligations to us could be adversely
    impacted.


 


    Recent Developments.   The American
    Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009 was passed
    February 17, 2009.  Between October 1, 2008 and
    December 31, 2010, the bill will provide nearly
    $87 billion in additional federal Medicaid funding for
    states. Each state will receive a 6.2 percentage point
    increase in their federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP),
    thus lowering the state’s share of the cost through 2010.
    The remaining 35% of the $87 billion will be allocated to
    states with higher unemployment rates. In order to receive
    funding, states must maintain eligibility levels for Medicaid
    that were previously in place. The passage of this bill and
    distribution of funds should relieve some of the budgetary
    pressures that many states currently face. This increased
    federal funding should help prevent state cuts to provider
    Medicaid rates.


 



    Other
    Related Laws


 


    Skilled nursing and specialty care facilities (and assisted
    living facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to
    federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the
    operations and financial and other arrangements that may be
    entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws
    prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose
    of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical
    products or services reimbursable by governmental programs.
    Other laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary
    services and submit to the government valid and accurate
    statements for each service. Still other laws require providers
    to comply with a variety of safety, health and other
    requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property
    and the quality of care provided. Sanctions for violations of
    these laws and regulations may include, but are not limited to,
    criminal
    and/or civil
    penalties and fines and a loss of licensure, immediate
    termination of governmental payments, and exclusion from
    eligibility for any governmental reimbursement. In certain
    circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those
    prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one
    property may subject other facilities under common control or
    ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from participation
    in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In the ordinary course of
    its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to
    inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state
    agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.


 


    Each skilled nursing and specialty care property (and any
    assisted living property that receives Medicaid payments) is
    subject to the federal anti-kickback statute that generally
    prohibits persons from offering, providing, soliciting or
    receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an
    individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which
    payment may be made under a federal health care program such as
    the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Skilled nursing and
    specialty care facilities are also subject to the federal Ethics
    in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the
    Stark Law. The Stark Law generally prohibits the submission of
    claims to Medicare for payment if the claim results from a
    physician referral for certain designated services and the
    physician has a financial relationship with the health service
    provider that does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a
    financial relationship under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions
    on physician self-referrals and submission of claims apply to
    state Medicaid programs. Further, skilled nursing and specialty
    care facilities (and assisted living facilities that receive
    Medicaid payments) are subject to substantial financial
    penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the False
    Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the False Claims
    Act’s “whistleblower” provisions. Private
    enforcement of health care fraud has increased due in large part
    to amendments to the False Claims Act that encourage private
    individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These
    whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam
    actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and
    former patients, nurses and other employees. Some cases have
    been brought under the federal False Claims Act asserting claims
    for treble damages and up to $11,000 per claim on the basis of
    the alleged failure of a nursing facility to meet applicable
    regulations relating to the operation of the nursing facility.
    Prosecutions, investigations or whistle blower actions could
    have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s
    liquidity, financial condition and results of operations which
    could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its
    obligations to us. Finally, various state false claim and anti-



    
    12



Table of Contents




    kickback laws also may apply to each property operator.
    Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in
    criminal
    and/or civil
    penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the
    ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.


 


    Other legislative developments over the past several years,
    including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
    Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), have greatly expanded the
    definition of health care fraud and related offenses and
    broadened its scope to include private health care plans in
    addition to government payors. Congress also has greatly
    increased funding for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau
    of Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General of the
    Department of Health and Human Services to audit, investigate
    and prosecute suspected health care fraud. Moreover, a
    significant portion of the billions in health care fraud
    recoveries over the past several years has also been returned to
    government agencies to further fund their fraud investigation
    and prosecution efforts.


 


    Additionally, other HIPAA provisions and regulations provide for
    communication of health information through standard electronic
    transaction formats and for the privacy and security of health
    information. In order to comply with the regulations, health
    care providers must undergo significant operational and
    technical changes. Operators also face significant financial
    exposure if they fail to maintain the confidentiality of medical
    records and personal, identifiable health information about
    individuals.


 


    In November 2002, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
    Services (CMS), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health
    and Human Services, began a national Nursing Home Quality
    Initiative (NHQI). Under this initiative, historical survey
    information, the NHQI Pilot Evaluation Report and the NHQI
    Overview is made available to the public on-line. The NHQI
    website provides consumer and provider information regarding the
    quality of care in nursing homes. The data allows consumers,
    providers, states and researchers to compare quality information
    that shows how well nursing homes are caring for their
    residents’ physical and clinical needs. The posted nursing
    home quality measures come from resident assessment data that
    nursing homes routinely collect on the residents at specified
    intervals during their stay. If the operators of nursing
    facilities are unable to achieve quality of care ratings that
    are comparable or superior to those of their competitors, they
    may lose market share to other facilities, reducing their
    revenues and adversely impacting their ability to make rental
    payments.


 


    Finally, government investigation and enforcement of health care
    laws has increased dramatically over the past several years and
    is expected to continue. Some of these enforcement actions
    represent novel legal theories and expansions in the application
    of false claims laws. The costs for an operator of a health care
    property associated with both defending such enforcement actions
    and the undertakings in settlement agreements can be substantial
    and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an
    operator to meet its obligations to us.


 



    Environmental
    Laws


 


    A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and
    occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect
    health care facility operations or special medical properties.
    Under various federal, state and local environmental laws,
    ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a
    secured lender (such as the Company) may be liable for the costs
    of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at,
    under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well
    as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic
    substances (including government fines and damages for injuries
    to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required
    remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and
    the owner’s or secured lender’s liability for such
    costs could exceed the value of the property,
    and/or the
    assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence
    of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or
    remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s
    ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such
    property as collateral which, in turn, would reduce revenues.


 



    Taxation


 



    Federal
    Income Tax Considerations


 


    The following summary of the taxation of the Company and the
    material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and
    equity securities is for general information only and is not tax
    advice. This summary does



    
    13



Table of Contents




    not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to
    certain types of holders of stock or securities (including, but
    not limited to, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities,
    financial institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares
    of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated conversion, or
    constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in
    securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting for
    their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign
    corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of
    the United States).


 


    This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of
    U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in
    light of your particular investment or other circumstances. In
    addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local
    income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax
    consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal
    income tax law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal
    income tax law, including changes in law or differing
    interpretations, which may be applied retroactively, could have
    a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax
    consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our
    securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our
    securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding
    the particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and
    other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our
    securities.


 



    General


 


    We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (a
    “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We
    intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to qualify as
    a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain
    qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification and
    taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of
    qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with
    respect to income, assets, distribution level and diversity of
    share ownership as discussed below under
    “— Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no
    assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate
    in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified.


 


    In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will
    not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT
    taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to
    stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal
    corporate rates on any taxable income or capital gain not
    distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our net
    long-term capital gain, stockholders are required to include
    their proportionate share of our undistributed long-term capital
    gain in income, but they will receive a refundable credit for
    their share of any taxes paid by us on such gain.


 


    Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to federal income
    and excise tax as follows:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital
    gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our
    “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject
    to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax
    rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be subject to the “alternative minimum tax”
    (the “AMT”) on certain tax preference items to the
    extent that the AMT exceeds our regular tax;




 



     
        • 

    
    If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of
    “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale
    to customers in the ordinary course of business or other
    non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, such income
    will be taxed at the highest corporate rate;




 



     
        • 

    
    Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in
    general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily
    for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other
    than dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of
    property due to an involuntary conversion) will be subject to a
    100% tax;




 



     
        • 

    
    If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests
    (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our qualification
    as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be
    subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross
    income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross
    income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes
    of the 75% gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95%
    of our gross income (90% of our gross income for taxable years
    beginning on or before October 22, 2004) over the
    amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross
    income test (discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction
    intended to reflect our profitability;






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of
    (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year,
    (2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year
    (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on)
    and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding
    periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of
    such required distribution over amounts actually
    distributed; and




 



     
        • 

    
    We will be subject to a 100% tax on the amount of any rents from
    real property, deductions or excess interest paid to us by any
    of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that would be
    reduced through reallocation under certain federal income tax
    principles in order to more clearly reflect income of the
    taxable REIT subsidiary. See “— Qualification as
    a REIT — Investments in Taxable REIT
    Subsidiaries.”





 


    If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is or has
    been a “C” corporation, in a carryover basis
    transaction, we could be liable for specified liabilities that
    are inherited from the “C” corporation. A
    “C” corporation is generally defined as a corporation
    that is required to pay full corporate level federal income tax.
    If we recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the
    ten-year period beginning on the date on which the assets were
    acquired by us, then, to the extent of the assets’
    “built-in gain” (i.e., the excess of the fair market
    value of the asset over the adjusted tax basis in the asset, in
    each case determined as of the beginning of the ten-year
    period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the highest
    regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this
    paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain
    assume that the built-in gain assets, at the time the built-in
    gain assets were subject to a conversion transaction (either
    where a “C” corporation elected REIT status or a REIT
    acquired the assets from a “C” corporation), were not
    treated as sold to an unrelated party and gain recognized.


 



    Qualification
    as a REIT


 


    A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:


 




    
    
    



     
        (1) 

    
    which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;




 



     
        (2) 

    
    the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable
    shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;




 



     
        (3) 

    
    which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for the
    federal income tax law relating to REITs;




 



     
        (4) 

    
    which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance
    company;




 



     
        (5) 

    
    the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons
    in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first taxable
    year;




 



     
        (6) 

    
    not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is
    owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding its
    first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or
    fewer individuals (which includes certain entities) (the
    “Five or Fewer Requirement”); and




 



     
        (7) 

    
    which meets certain income and asset tests described below.





 


    Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the
    entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at
    least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or
    during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than
    12 months. For purposes of conditions (5) and (6),
    pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated
    as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception
    in the case of condition (6).


 


    Based on publicly available information, we believe we have
    satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in
    (5) and (6) above. In addition, Article VI of our
    Amended and Restated By-Laws provides for restrictions regarding
    ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are
    intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share
    ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above.
    These restrictions, however, may not ensure that we will, in all
    cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership requirements
    described in (5) and (6) above.


 


    We have complied with, and will continue to comply with,
    regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our
    stockholders requesting information regarding the actual
    ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters,
    we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would
    not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer
    Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer
    Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules,
    we will be subject to a monetary penalty. If our failure to
    comply was due to



    
    15



Table of Contents




    intentional disregard of the requirement, the penalty would be
    increased. However, if our failure to comply were due to
    reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be
    imposed.


 


    We may own a number of properties through wholly owned
    subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified
    REIT subsidiary” if 100% of its stock is owned by a REIT,
    and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable
    REIT subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will
    not be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets,
    liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a
    “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated as assets,
    liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A
    “qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to federal
    income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified
    REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions against
    ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more
    than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or
    more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described
    below under “— Asset Tests.”


 


    If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability company or a
    trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will
    be deemed to own a proportionate share of the
    partnership’s, limited liability company’s or
    trust’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving
    our share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited
    liability company or trust, and the gross income will retain the
    same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the
    partnership, limited liability company or trust. These
    “look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income
    tests and assets tests described below.


 


    Income Tests.  There are two separate
    percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we
    must satisfy for each taxable year.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
    directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from
    “rents from real property,” other income from
    investments relating to real property or mortgages on real
    property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.




 



     
        • 

    
    At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
    directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the
    sources qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from
    dividends (including dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries)
    and interest.





 


    For taxable years beginning on or before October 22, 2004,
    (1) payments to us under an interest rate swap or cap
    agreement, option, futures contract, forward rate agreement or
    any similar financial instrument entered into by us to reduce
    interest rate risk on indebtedness incurred or to be incurred
    and (2) gain from the sale or other disposition of any such
    investment are treated as income qualifying under the 95% gross
    income test. As to transactions entered into in taxable years
    beginning after October 22, 2004, any of our income from a
    “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is
    entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or
    indirectly, to manage the risk of interest rate movements, price
    changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings or
    obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such other
    risks that are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is
    excluded from the 95% gross income test.


 


    For transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any of
    our income from a “clearly identified” hedging
    transaction that is entered into by us in the normal course of
    business, directly or indirectly, to manage the risk of interest
    rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with
    respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred
    by us is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.


 


    For transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any of
    our income from a “clearly identified” hedging
    transaction entered into by us primarily to manage risk of
    currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain
    that is included in gross income in the 95% and 75% gross income
    tests is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.


 


    In general, a hedging transaction is “clearly
    identified” if (1) the transaction is identified as a
    hedging transaction before the end of the day on which it is
    entered into and (2) the items or risks being hedged are
    identified “substantially contemporaneously” with the
    hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially
    contemporaneous if it is made more than 35 days after
    entering into the hedging transaction.


 


    As to gains and items of income recognized after July 30,
    2008, “passive foreign exchange gain” for any taxable
    year will not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95%
    gross income test and “real estate foreign



    
    16



Table of Contents




    exchange gain” for any taxable year will not constitute
    gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Real
    estate foreign exchange gain is foreign currency gain (as
    defined in Internal Revenue Code section 988(b)(1)) which
    is attributable to: (i) any qualifying item of income or
    gain for purposes of the 75% gross income test; (ii) the
    acquisition or ownership of obligations secured by mortgages on
    real property or interests in real property; or
    (iii) becoming or being the obligor under obligations
    secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real
    property. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes
    Internal Revenue Code section 987 gain attributable to a
    qualified business unit (a “QBU”) of a REIT if the QBU
    itself meets the 75% income test for the taxable year and the
    75% asset test at the close of each quarter that the REIT has
    directly or indirectly held the QBU. Real estate foreign
    exchange gain also includes any other foreign currency gain as
    determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. Passive foreign
    exchange gain includes all real estate foreign exchange gain and
    foreign currency gain which is attributable to: (i) any
    qualifying item of income or gain for purposes of the 95% gross
    income test; (ii) the acquisition or ownership of
    obligations; (iii) becoming or being the obligor under
    obligations; and (iv) any other foreign currency gain as
    determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.


 


    Generally, other than income from “clearly identified”
    hedging transactions entered into by us in the normal course of
    business, any foreign currency gain derived by us from dealing,
    or engaging in substantial and regular trading, in securities
    will constitute gross income which does not qualify under the
    95% or 75% gross income tests.


 


    Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real
    property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests
    for a REIT only if several conditions are met:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the
    income or profits of any person, although rents generally will
    not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed
    percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.




 



     
        • 

    
    Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real
    property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT,
    also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant,
    unless the tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain
    other requirements are met with respect to the real property
    being rented.




 



     
        • 

    
    If rent attributable to personal property leased in connection
    with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total
    rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent
    attributable to such personal property will not qualify as
    “rents from real property.”




 



     
        • 

    
    For rents to qualify as rents from real property, we generally
    must not furnish or render services to tenants, other than
    through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent
    contractor” from whom we derive no income, except that we
    may directly provide services that are “usually or
    customarily rendered” in the geographic area in which the
    property is located in connection with the rental of real
    property for occupancy only, or are not otherwise considered
    “rendered to the occupant for his convenience.”




 



     
        • 

    
    For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, the REIT
    may lease qualified health care property (as defined in Internal
    Revenue Code section 856(e)(6)(D)) on an arm’s-length
    basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated
    on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who is an eligible
    independent contractor (as defined in Internal Revenue Code
    section 856(d)(9)(A)). Generally, the rent that the REIT
    receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary will be treated as
    “rents from real property.”





 


    For taxable years beginning after August 5, 1997, a REIT
    has been permitted to render a de minimis amount of
    impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts
    received with respect to that property as rent from real
    property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the
    taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to a
    property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by
    the REIT directly or indirectly from the property. The amount
    received for any service or management operation for this
    purpose shall be deemed to be not less than 150% of the direct
    cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
    providing the management or operation. Furthermore,
    impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable
    REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, and we may still
    treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from
    real property.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    The term “interest” generally does not include any
    amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in
    part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount
    generally will not be excluded from the term
    “interest” solely by reason of being based on a fixed
    percentage of receipts or sales.


 


    If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income
    tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a
    REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief. For taxable
    years beginning on or before October 22, 2004, these relief
    provisions generally will be available if: (1) our failure
    to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to
    willful neglect; (2) we attach a schedule of the sources of
    our income to our return; and (3) any incorrect information
    on the schedule was not due to fraud with intent to evade tax.
    For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, these
    relief provisions generally will be available if
    (1) following our identification of the failure, we file a
    schedule for such taxable year describing each item of our gross
    income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to
    reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.


 


    It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under
    which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
    provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is
    imposed on an amount equal to (a) the gross income
    attributable to (1) 75% of our gross income over the amount
    of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% income test
    and (2) 95% of our gross income (90% of our gross income
    for taxable years beginning on or before October 22,
    2004) over the amount of qualifying gross income for
    purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a
    fraction intended to reflect our profitability.


 


    The Secretary of the Treasury is given broad authority to
    determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify or
    not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be
    excluded from the measure of gross income for such purposes.


 


    Asset Tests.  Within 30 days after the
    close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy
    several tests relating to the nature and diversification of our
    assets determined in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. At least 75% of the value of our total
    assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash
    items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of
    our operation), government securities and qualified temporary
    investments. Although the remaining 25% of our assets generally
    may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from
    owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote
    (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value
    test”) of the outstanding securities of any issuer other
    than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT
    subsidiary. Further, no more than 20% (25% for taxable years
    after 2008) of the total assets may be represented by
    securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the
    “20% asset test”) (the “25% asset test” for
    taxable years after 2008) and no more than 5% of the value
    of our total assets may be represented by securities of any
    non-governmental issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary
    (the “5% asset test”), another REIT or a taxable REIT
    subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test and
    the 20% (25% for taxable years after 2008) and 5% asset
    tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter. There are
    special rules which provide relief if the value related tests
    are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a
    REIT.


 


    For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000,
    certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including:
    (1) straight debt securities of an issuer (including
    straight debt that provides certain contingent payments);
    (2) any loan to an individual or an estate; (3) any
    rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal
    Revenue Code, other than with a “related person”;
    (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property;
    (5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision
    thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any
    political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto
    Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any
    other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the
    Treasury, is excepted from the definition of security
    (“excluded securities”). Special rules apply to
    straight debt securities issued by corporations and entities
    taxable as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If a
    REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight
    debt securities of a corporate or partnership issuer and
    (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded
    securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such
    issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt
    securities will be included in the 10% value test.


 


    For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, a
    REIT’s interest as a partner in a partnership is not
    treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value
    test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt
    instrument issued by a partnership will not be a security for
    purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent
    of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the partnership and
    (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income



    
    18



Table of Contents




    (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would
    qualify for the 75% gross income test. For taxable years
    beginning after October 22, 2004, for purposes of the 10%
    value test, a REIT’s interest in a partnership’s
    assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest
    in any securities issued by the partnership (other than the
    excluded securities described in the preceding paragraph).


 


    For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, if the
    REIT or its QBU uses a foreign currency as its functional
    currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign
    currency, but only to the extent such foreign currency is
    (i) held for use in the normal course of the activities of
    the REIT or QBU which give rise to items of income or gain that
    are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are
    directly related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under
    the 75% asset test, and (ii) not held in connection with
    dealing or engaging in substantial and regular trading in
    securities.


 


    With respect to corrections of failures for which the
    requirements for corrections are satisfied after
    October 22, 2004, regardless of whether such failures
    occurred in taxable years beginning on, before or after such
    date, as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test
    or the 5% asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a
    REIT by disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation that
    does not exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT’s assets at
    the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that
    the disposition occurs within six months following the last day
    of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets.
    For violations of any of the REIT asset tests due to reasonable
    cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds
    described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
    disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter
    by taking certain steps, including disposition of sufficient
    assets within the six month period described above to meet the
    applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of
    $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net
    income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period
    of time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and
    filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that
    describes the non-qualifying assets.


 


    Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.  For
    taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, REITs may
    own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in
    taxable REIT subsidiaries. We and any taxable corporate entity
    in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to
    treat such entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”


 


    Certain of our subsidiaries have elected to be treated as a
    taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject
    to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but
    are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that
    cannot be performed directly by REITs without jeopardizing their
    REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will attempt to
    minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can be no
    assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to
    minimize taxes will be successful. To the extent our taxable
    REIT subsidiaries are required to pay federal, state or local
    taxes, the cash available for distribution as dividends to us
    from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.


 


    The amount of interest on related-party debt that a taxable REIT
    subsidiary may deduct is limited. Further, a 100% tax applies to
    any interest payments by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its
    affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not
    commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted
    to deduct interest payments to unrelated parties without any of
    these restrictions.


 


    The Internal Revenue Service may reallocate costs between a REIT
    and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is a lack of
    arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible
    expenses allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would
    increase its tax liability. Further, any amount by which a REIT
    understates its deductions and overstates those of its taxable
    REIT subsidiary will, subject to certain exceptions, be subject
    to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may
    be made in the future for additional entities in which we own an
    interest.


 


    Annual Distribution Requirements.  In order to
    avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to
    make distributions (other than capital gain distributions) to
    our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction
    in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of (i) 90%
    of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard
    to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and
    (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from
    foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of certain items
    of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid in the
    taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable
    year if declared before we timely file our tax return



    
    19



Table of Contents




    for that year and if paid on or before the first regular
    distribution payment after such declaration. The amount
    distributed must not be preferential. This means that every
    stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is
    made must be treated the same as every other stockholder of that
    class, and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than in
    accordance with its dividend rights as a class. To the extent
    that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or
    distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT
    taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on
    the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates.
    Finally, as discussed above, we may be subject to an excise tax
    if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We
    intend to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these
    annual distribution requirements.


 


    It is possible that, from time to time, we may not have
    sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
    distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount
    as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to,
    among other things, (1) timing differences between
    (i) the actual receipt of income and actual payment of
    deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and
    deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or
    (2) the payment of severance benefits that may not be
    deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we
    may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if possible,
    pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to
    meet the distribution requirement.


 


    Under certain circumstances, in the event of a deficiency
    determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able to
    rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement
    for a year by paying “deficiency dividends” to
    stockholders in a later year, which may be included in our
    deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we
    may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as
    deficiency dividends; however, we will be required to pay
    applicable penalties and interest based upon the amount of any
    deduction taken for deficiency dividend distributions.


 


    The Internal Revenue Service recently issued Revenue Procedure
    2008-68,
    which provides temporary relief to publicly traded REITs seeking
    to preserve liquidity by electing cash/stock dividends. Under
    Revenue Procedure
    2008-68, a
    REIT may treat the entire dividend, including the stock portion,
    as a taxable dividend distribution, thereby qualifying for the
    dividends-paid deduction, provided certain requirements are
    satisfied. The cash portion of the dividend may be as low as
    10%. The Revenue Procedure applies to dividends declared on or
    after January 1, 2008, and with respect to a taxable year
    ending on or before December 31, 2009.


 



    Failure
    to Qualify as a REIT


 


    If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable
    year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any
    applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at
    regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any
    year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be
    deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be
    required to be made in any year. All distributions to
    stockholders will be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of
    current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these
    distributions and, subject to certain limitations, will be
    eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate
    stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory
    provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT
    for the four taxable years following the year during which
    qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in
    all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief.
    Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to
    incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay
    potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.


 


    In addition to the relief described above under
    “— Income Tests” and “— Asset
    Tests,” relief is available in the event that we violate a
    provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our
    failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due
    to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we
    pay a penalty of $50,000 for each failure to satisfy the
    provision; and (3) the violation does not include a
    violation described under ‘‘— Income
    Tests” or “— Asset Tests” above. It is
    not now possible to determine the circumstances under which we
    may be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.


 



    Federal
    Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock


 


    Treatment of Taxable
    U.S. Stockholders.  The following summary
    applies to you only if you are a
    “U.S. stockholder.” A
    “U.S. stockholder” is a holder of shares of stock
    who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a citizen or resident of the United States;






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a
    corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
    organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any
    political subdivision of the United States, including any state;




 



     
        • 

    
    an estate, the income of which is subject to United States
    federal income taxation regardless of its source; or




 



     
        • 

    
    a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise
    primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one
    or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal
    Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the
    trust’s substantial decisions.





 


    So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on
    shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated
    earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not
    designated as capital gain dividends) will be includable as
    ordinary income for federal income tax purposes. None of these
    distributions will be eligible for the dividends received
    deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.


 


    Generally, for taxable years ending after May 6, 2003
    through December 31, 2010, the maximum marginal rate of tax
    payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations
    that are subject to a corporate level of tax is 15%. Except in
    limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends
    paid to you by us on our shares, because generally we are not
    subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable
    income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The
    reduced maximum federal income tax rate will apply to that
    portion, if any, of dividends received by you with respect to
    our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received
    by us from non-REIT corporations or other taxable REIT
    subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect
    to which we were required to pay federal corporate income tax
    during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute
    100% of our REIT taxable income for the prior year); or
    (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were
    distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.


 


    Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will
    be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
    exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year),
    without regard to the period for which you held our stock.
    However, if you are a corporation, you may be required to treat
    a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.


 


    If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net long-term
    capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital
    gain, your proportionate share of this net long-term capital
    gain. You would also receive a refundable tax credit for your
    proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained
    capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis of
    your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable
    capital gains less your share of the tax deemed paid.


 


    You may not include in your federal income tax return any of our
    net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules
    may also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and
    preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution
    declared by us in October, November or December of any year on a
    specified date in any such month shall be treated as both paid
    by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided
    that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than
    January 31 of the following year.


 


    We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to
    treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required
    to be distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise
    tax discussed under “— General” and
    “— Qualification as a REIT — Annual
    Distribution Requirements” above. As a result, you may be
    required to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions
    that would otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital.
    Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as
    a dividend (an ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend, as
    the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any
    other distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings
    and profits will not be taxable to you to the extent these
    distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of your
    shares of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax
    basis of your shares of our stock by the amount of these
    distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after
    which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if
    the shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax
    basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain
    or loss, if any, realized upon sale of the shares of our stock.
    Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which
    were held for six months or less (after application of certain
    holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term
    capital loss to the extent you previously received capital gain
    distributions with respect to these shares of our stock.



    
    21



Table of Contents




    Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with
    a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of
    our stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us,
    you will generally recognize capital gain or loss equal to the
    difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange
    and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of our stock. This
    gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock
    as a capital asset.


 


    If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be
    determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
    redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as
    opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the
    amount received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax
    basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption:
    (1) results in a “complete termination” of your
    interest in all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a
    “substantially disproportionate redemption”; or
    (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend”
    with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into
    account your ownership of all classes of our equity securities
    (e.g., common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and
    warrants). You also must take into account any equity securities
    that are considered to be constructively owned by you.


 


    If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no
    longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
    securities or only own (actually and constructively) an
    insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is
    probable that the redemption of your shares would be considered
    “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and, thus,
    would result in gain or loss to you. However, whether a
    distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a
    dividend” depends on all of the facts and circumstances,
    and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption,
    you should consult your tax advisor to determine their
    application to the particular situation.


 


    Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described
    above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of
    your shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a
    dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or
    accumulated earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as
    a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will
    be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If
    you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain
    circumstances, such basis may be transferred to a related
    person, or it may be lost entirely.


 


    Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than
    one year is taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain rate,
    which is currently 15%. Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service
    guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends
    as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as
    gain taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.


 


    Treatment of Tax-Exempt
    U.S. Stockholders.  Tax-exempt entities,
    including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts
    and individual retirement accounts (“Exempt
    Organizations”), generally are exempt from federal income
    taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their
    unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The
    Internal Revenue Service has issued a published revenue ruling
    that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee
    pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares
    of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or
    business of the exempt employee pension trust. Based on this
    ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations
    generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt
    Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock
    with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI
    pursuant to the “debt financed property” rules.
    Likewise, a portion of the Exempt Organization’s income
    from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in
    a real estate mortgage investment conduit.


 


    In addition, in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns
    more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of
    our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust
    holding more than 10% of our stock only if: (1) the
    percentage of our income that is UBTI (determined as if we were
    a pension trust) is at least 5%; (2) we qualify as a REIT
    by reason of the modification of the Five or Fewer Requirement
    that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated as
    holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the
    pension trust; and (3) either (i) one pension trust
    owns more than 25% of the value of our stock, or (ii) a
    group of pension trusts individually holding more than 10% of
    the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the
    value of our stock.


 


    Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.  Under certain circumstances, you may
    be subject to backup withholding at applicable rates on payments
    made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of,
    shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you:
    (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification
    number,



    
    22



Table of Contents




    which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your social
    security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer
    identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
    Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments
    of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under
    penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer
    identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has
    not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.


 


    Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made
    to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
    tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor
    regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding,
    and the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding
    is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup
    withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder will be
    allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s United
    States federal income tax liability and may entitle such
    stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information
    is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In addition,
    withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to
    stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to
    certify their non-foreign status.


 


    Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.  The
    following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign
    person. The federal taxation of foreign persons is a highly
    complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.


 


    Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash
    generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary
    dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital
    assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax
    at a rate of 30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that
    tax and you file with us the required form evidencing the lower
    rate.


 


    In general, you will be subject to United States federal income
    tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with
    respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is
    “effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade
    or business in the United States. A corporate foreign
    stockholder that receives income that is, or is treated as,
    effectively connected with a United States trade or business may
    also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in
    addition to regular United States corporate income tax. The
    following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose
    investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to
    withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the
    gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless
    (1) you file an Internal Revenue Service
    Form W-8ECI
    with us claiming that the distribution is “effectively
    connected” or (2) certain other exceptions apply.


 


    Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale
    or exchange of a United States real property interest will be
    taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax
    Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were
    gains “effectively connected” with a United States
    trade or business. Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal
    capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on
    these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax
    and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident
    alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be
    subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a corporate
    foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption.


 


    We will be required to withhold from distributions subject to
    FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of
    designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the
    amount of any distributions that could be designated as capital
    gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions
    as capital gain dividends, subsequent distributions, up to the
    amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be
    treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.


 


    For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, any
    capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is
    “regularly traded” on an established securities market
    will be treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign
    stockholder did not own more than 5% of such class of stock at
    any time during the taxable year. Once this provision takes
    effect, foreign stockholders generally will not be required to
    report distributions received from us on U.S. federal
    income tax returns and all distributions treated as dividends
    for U.S. federal income tax purposes including any capital
    gain dividend will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax
    (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as
    discussed above. In addition, the branch profits tax will no
    longer apply to such distributions.



    
    23



Table of Contents




    Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property
    interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively
    connected with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our
    shares by you generally will not be subject to United States
    taxation. Our shares will not constitute a United States real
    property interest if we qualify as a “domestically
    controlled REIT.” We do, and expect to continue to, qualify
    as a domestically controlled REIT. A domestically controlled
    REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing
    period less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or
    indirectly by foreign stockholders. However, if you are a
    nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States
    for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain
    other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such
    capital gains. In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you
    will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold on the purchase
    price if the purchased shares are “regularly traded”
    on an established securities market or if we are a domestically
    controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be
    required to withhold 10% of the purchase price and remit such
    amount to the Internal Revenue Service.


 


    Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally
    not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States
    that are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or
    lower treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies;
    (2) capital gains dividends; or (3) distributions
    attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of
    U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a
    sale of stock within the United States or conducted through
    certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is subject to
    both backup withholding and information reporting unless the
    beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or
    she is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have
    actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a
    U.S. person) or otherwise established an exemption. You may
    obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup
    withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund
    with the Internal Revenue Service.


 



    U.S.
    Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary
    Shares


 


    Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were
    owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the
    depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into
    account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled
    if you were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.


 


    Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred
    Stock.  No gain or loss will be recognized upon
    the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary
    shares and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will,
    upon exchange, be the same as the aggregate tax basis of the
    depositary shares exchanged. If you held your depositary shares
    as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of
    preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred
    stock will include the period during which you owned the
    depositary shares.


 



    U.S.
    Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt
    Securities


 


    The following is a general summary of the United States federal
    income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder
    that is a
    non-U.S. holder,
    as defined below, the United States federal estate tax
    consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt
    securities periodically offered under one or more indentures
    (the “notes”). This summary assumes that you hold the
    notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you only if you
    are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes
    for a price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue
    price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial
    amount of the notes is sold other than to bond houses, brokers
    or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of
    underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this
    summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax
    laws that may be applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.


 



    U.S.
    Holders


 


    The following summary applies to you only if you are a
    U.S. holder, as defined below.


 


    Definition of a U.S. Holder.  A
    “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of a note or
    notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a citizen or resident of the United States;






    
    24



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a
    corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
    organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any
    political subdivision of the United States, including any state;




 



     
        • 

    
    an estate, the income of which is subject to United States
    federal income taxation regardless of its source; or




 



     
        • 

    
    a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise
    primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one
    or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal
    Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the
    trust’s substantial decisions.





 


    Payments of Interest.  Stated interest on the
    notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from
    domestic sources at the time it is paid or accrues in accordance
    with your method of accounting for tax purposes.


 


    Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of
    Notes.  The adjusted tax basis in your note
    acquired at a premium will generally be your cost. You generally
    will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise
    dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the amount realized on the sale or other disposition, less any
    amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will be
    taxable in the manner described under “— Payments
    of Interest” above; and




 



     
        • 

    
    your adjusted tax basis in the notes.





 


    Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This
    capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if
    at the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the
    notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions,
    your capital losses cannot be used to offset your ordinary
    income.


 


    Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.  In general, “backup
    withholding” may apply to any payments made to you of
    principal and interest on your note, and to payment of the
    proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before
    maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and:
    (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification
    number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your
    social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer
    identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
    Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments
    of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under
    penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer
    identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has
    not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.


 


    The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made
    to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
    tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be
    reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each
    calendar year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding
    your qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and
    the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable.
    The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be
    credited against your U.S. federal income tax liability,
    provided that correct information is provided to the Internal
    Revenue Service.


 



    Non-U.S.
    Holders


 


    The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial
    owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above
    (a
    “non-U.S. holder”).


 


    Special rules may apply to certain
    non-U.S. holders
    such as “controlled foreign corporations,”
    “passive foreign investment companies” and
    “foreign personal holding companies.” Such entities
    are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the
    United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences
    that may be relevant to them.


 


    U.S. Federal Withholding Tax.  Subject to
    the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not
    apply to payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as
    such, of principal and interest on your notes under the
    “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal Revenue
    Code, provided that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or constructively,
    own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
    classes of our stock entitled to vote;






    
    25



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    you are not (1) a controlled foreign corporation for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly
    or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock ownership, as
    provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank
    receiving interest described in Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the
    Internal Revenue Code;




 



     
        • 

    
    such interest is not effectively connected with your conduct of
    a U.S. trade or business; and




 



     
        • 

    
    you provide a signed written statement, under penalties of
    perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that
    you are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the
    Internal Revenue Code and providing your name and address to:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    us or our paying agent; or




 



     
        • 

    
    a securities clearing organization, bank or other financial
    institution that holds customers’ securities in the
    ordinary course of its trade or business and holds your notes on
    your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under
    penalties of perjury that it, or the bank or financial
    institution between it and you, has received from you your
    signed, written statement and provides us or our paying agent
    with a copy of such statement.





 


    Treasury regulations provide that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    if you are a foreign partnership, the certification requirement
    will generally apply to your partners, and you will be required
    to provide certain information;




 



     
        • 

    
    if you are a foreign trust, the certification requirement will
    generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners depending
    on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,”
    “foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor
    trust” as defined in the Treasury regulations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    look-through rules will apply for tiered partnerships, foreign
    simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.





 


    If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should
    consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
    Treasury regulations and the certification requirements
    applicable to you.


 


    If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements
    described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30%
    United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a
    properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service
    Form W-8BEN
    claiming an exemption from or reduction in withholding under the
    benefit of an applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue
    Service
    Form W-8ECI
    stating that interest paid on the note is not subject to
    withholding tax because it is effectively connected with your
    conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Alternative
    documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.


 


    If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States
    and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct
    of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United
    States federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis
    (although you will be exempt from the 30% withholding tax
    provided the certification requirement described above is met)
    in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as
    otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a
    foreign corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits
    tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected
    to the conduct of your trade or business in the United States.


 


    Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of
    Notes.  You generally will not have to pay
    U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from
    the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other
    disposition of your notes, unless:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    in the case of gain, you are an individual who is present in the
    United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year
    of the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific
    other conditions are met;




 



     
        • 

    
    you are subject to tax provisions applicable to certain United
    States expatriates; or




 



     
        • 

    
    the gain is effectively connected with your conduct of a
    U.S. trade or business.





 


    If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States,
    and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected
    with the conduct of that trade or business, you generally will
    be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain.
    In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may be
    subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected
    earnings and profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for
    certain items.



    
    26



Table of Contents




    U.S. Federal Estate Tax.  If you are an
    individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the
    United States, as specially defined for U.S. federal estate
    tax purposes, at the time of your death, your notes will
    generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax,
    unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or
    constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of
    all our classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest
    on the notes is effectively connected with your conduct of a
    U.S. trade or business.


 


    Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.  Backup withholding will not apply to
    payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying
    agent, in its capacity as such, to you if you have provided the
    required certification that you are a
    non-U.S. holder
    as described in “— U.S. Federal Withholding
    Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying
    agent have actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as
    described in “— U.S. Holders” above. We
    or our paying agent may, however, report payments of interest on
    the notes.


 


    The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be
    subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If
    you sell your notes outside the United States through a
    non-U.S. office
    of a
    non-U.S. broker
    and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United
    States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information
    reporting requirements generally will not apply to that payment.
    However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup
    withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if
    that payment is made outside the United States, if you sell your
    notes through a
    non-U.S. office
    of a broker that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code;




 



     
        • 

    
    derives 50% or more of its gross income in specific periods from
    the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;




 



     
        • 

    
    is a “controlled foreign corporation” for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes; or




 



     
        • 

    
    is a foreign partnership, if at any time during its tax year,
    one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the
    aggregate hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests
    in the partnership, or the foreign partnership is engaged in a
    U.S. trade or business, unless the broker has documentary
    evidence in its files that you are a
    non-U.S. person
    and certain other conditions are met or you otherwise establish
    an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale
    of your notes to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the
    payment is subject to both U.S. backup withholding and
    information reporting unless you provide a
    Form W-8BEN
    certifying that you are a
    non-U.S. person
    or you otherwise establish an exemption.





 


    You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of
    backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
    availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from
    backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup
    withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a
    refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax
    liability, provided the required information is furnished to the
    Internal Revenue Service.


 



    U.S.
    Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our
    Warrants


 


    Exercise of Warrants.  You will not generally
    recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your
    basis in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares
    or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise
    of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax
    basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding
    period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary
    shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the
    exercise of the warrant will not include the period during which
    the warrant was held by you.


 


    Expiration of Warrants.  Upon the expiration of
    a warrant, you will recognize a capital loss in an amount equal
    to your adjusted tax basis in the warrant.


 


    Sale or Exchange of Warrants.  Upon the sale or
    exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will
    recognize gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference
    between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your
    adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain or loss will be
    capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss
    if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of
    the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that
    you should recognize ordinary income on the sale. You are
    advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences
    of a sale of a warrant to us.



    
    27



Table of Contents





    Potential
    Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax
    Consequences


 


    Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that
    the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us
    may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative
    action at any time and that any such action may affect
    investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing
    with federal income taxation are constantly under review by
    persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal
    Revenue Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in
    revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of
    established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in
    federal tax laws and interpretations of these laws could
    adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.


 



    Internet
    Access to Our SEC Filings


 


    Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy statements
    and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of
    charge, on the Internet at www.hcreit.com, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Forward-Looking
    Statements and Risk Factors


 


    This section discusses the most significant factors that affect
    our business, operations and financial condition. It does not
    describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our
    industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following
    risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet
    identified or that we currently think are not material, actually
    occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event,
    the value of our securities could decline.


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements
    that constitute “forward-looking statements” as that
    term is defined in the federal securities laws. These
    forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to,
    those regarding:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the possible expansion of our portfolio;




 



     
        • 

    
    the sale of properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    the performance of our operators/tenants and properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for
    vacant space or for properties that we take back from
    financially troubled tenants, if any;




 



     
        • 

    
    our occupancy rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to acquire, develop
    and/or
    manage properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to make distributions to stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and
    other matters;




 



     
        • 

    
    our tax status as a real estate investment trust;




 



     
        • 

    
    our critical accounting policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to access capital markets or other sources of
    funds; and




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to meet our earnings guidance.





 


    When we use words such as “may,” “will,”
    “intend,” “should,” “believe,”
    “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,”
    “estimate” or similar expressions, we are making
    forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not
    guarantees of future performance and involve risks and
    uncertainties. Our expected results may not be achieved, and



    
    28



Table of Contents




    actual results may differ materially from our expectations. This
    may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the status of the economy;




 



     
        • 

    
    the status of capital markets, including availability and cost
    of capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    issues facing the health care industry, including compliance
    with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies,
    responding to government investigations and punitive settlements
    and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively
    obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in financing terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition within the health care and senior housing industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    negative developments in the operating results or financial
    condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to,
    their ability to pay rent and repay loans;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable
    results;




 



     
        • 

    
    the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated;




 



     
        • 

    
    acts of God affecting our properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies
    occur;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to
    assets sold;




 



     
        • 

    
    operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid
    reimbursement rates and operational requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;




 



     
        • 

    
    unanticipated difficulties
    and/or
    expenditures relating to future acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    environmental laws affecting our properties;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;




 



     
        • 

    
    other legal and operational matters, including REIT
    qualification and key management personnel recruitment and
    rentention; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the risks described below:





 



    Risk
    factors related to our operators’ revenues and
    expenses


 


    Our investment property operators’ revenues are primarily
    driven by occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if
    applicable, and private pay rates. Expenses for these facilities
    are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities,
    taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from
    government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under
    pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls.
    Liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for
    our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues
    and/or any
    increase in operating expenses result in a property not
    generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
    operator and the value of other collateral would have to be
    relied upon.


 


    The recent and ongoing credit and liquidity crisis, and the
    weakening economy, may have an adverse effect on our operators
    and tenants, including their ability to access credit or
    maintain occupancy rates. If the operations, cash flows or
    financial condition of our operators are materially adversely
    impacted by the current economic conditions, our revenue and
    operations may be adversely affected.



    
    29



Table of Contents





    Increased
    competition may affect our operators’ ability to meet their
    obligations to us


 


    The operators of our properties compete on a local and regional
    basis with operators of properties and other health care
    providers that provide comparable services. We cannot be certain
    that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to
    achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable
    them to meet all of their obligations to us. Our operators are
    expected to encounter increased competition in the future that
    could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their
    businesses.


 



    Risk
    factors related to obligor bankruptcies


 


    We are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to
    meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us,
    which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that
    an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency
    proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease
    agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand
    immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our
    loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding
    obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid
    interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other
    remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain
    rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or
    reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or subject to
    insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability
    to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive
    unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to
    exercise other rights and remedies.


 


    We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate
    taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment
    property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property
    and/or
    transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we
    have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property
    to another tenant. In some of those situations, we have provided
    working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new
    obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new
    tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may
    expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should such events
    occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely
    affected.


 



    Transfers
    of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and
    these facilities may not have efficient alternative
    uses


 


    Transfers of health care facilities to successor operators
    frequently are subject to regulatory approvals, including change
    of ownership approvals under certificate of need
    (“CON”) laws, state licensure laws and Medicare and
    Medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for
    transfers of other types of real estate. The replacement of an
    operator could be delayed by the approval process of any
    federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the
    facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage
    the facility. Alternatively, given the specialized nature of our
    facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and
    funds to adapt these properties to other uses. If we are unable
    to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find
    efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be
    adversely affected.


 



    Risk
    factors related to government regulations


 


    Our obligors’ businesses are affected by government
    reimbursement and private payor rates. To the extent that an
    operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues
    from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such
    revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes,
    retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments
    or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations,
    payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers,
    government funding restrictions (at a program level or with
    respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in
    payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and
    audits at such property. In recent years, governmental payors
    have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to
    budgetary pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely
    continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state
    authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate
    timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the
    financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can be
    no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be
    available for services provided by any property operator,
    whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare,
    Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of
    services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could
    have a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity,
    financial



    
    30



Table of Contents




    condition and results of operations, which could adversely
    affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us.
    See “Item 1 — Business — Certain
    Government Regulations — Reimbursement” above.


 


    Our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive
    federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection
    laws and regulations. Our operators’ or tenants’
    failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of
    accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines,
    suspension or decertification from federal and state health care
    programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such
    actions may have an effect on our operators’ or
    tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and,
    therefore, adversely impact us. See
    “Item 1 — Business — Certain
    Government Regulations — Other Related Laws”
    above.


 


    Many of our properties may require a license
    and/or CON
    to operate. Failure to obtain a license or CON, or loss of a
    required license or CON would prevent a facility from operating
    in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events
    could materially adversely affect our operators’ or
    tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us. State and
    local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition
    of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and
    the construction of health care facilities, by requiring a CON
    or other similar approval. See “Item 1 —
    Business — Certain Government Regulations —
    Licensing and Certification” above.


 


    The American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009, which was
    signed into law on February 17, 2009, provides
    $87 billion in additional federal Medicaid funding for
    states’ Medicaid expenditures between October 1, 2008
    and December 31, 2010. Under this Act, states meeting
    certain eligibility requirements will temporarily receive
    additional money in the form of an increase in the federal
    medical assistance percentage (FMAP). Thus, for a limited period
    of time, the share of Medicaid costs that are paid for by the
    federal government will go up, and each state’s share will
    go down. We cannot predict whether states are, or will remain,
    eligible to receive the additional federal Medicaid funding, or
    whether the states will have sufficient funds for their Medicaid
    programs. We also cannot predict the impact that this
    broad-based, far-reaching legislation will have on the
    U.S. economy or our business.


 



    Risk
    factors related to liability claims and insurance
    costs


 


    Long-term care property operators (skilled nursing facilities,
    assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing
    care retirement communities) have experienced substantial
    increases in both the number and size of patient care liability
    claims in recent years. As a result, general and professional
    liability costs have increased in some markets. No assurances
    can be given that the climate for long-term care general and
    professional liability insurance will improve in any states
    where the property operators conduct business. Insurance
    companies may reduce or stop writing general and professional
    liability policies for long-term care facilities. Thus, general
    and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted
    or very costly, which may adversely affect the property
    operators’ future operations, cash flows and financial
    condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the
    property operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us.


 



    Risk
    factors related to acquisitions


 


    We are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not
    prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated
    difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
    properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired
    properties might require significant management attention that
    would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree
    to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the
    project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure
    completion of the project. Moreover, if we issue equity
    securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future
    acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results.
    These costs may negatively affect our results of operations.


 



    Risk
    factors related to indebtedness


 


    Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided
    through a combination of public and private offerings of debt
    and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of
    secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may
    cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require
    us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment
    of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn
    in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional
    financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or
    outlook by one or more of the noted rating agencies.



    
    31



Table of Contents




    Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and
    events of default. Among other things, these provisions require
    us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth
    and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
    create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of
    these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments
    governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other
    indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. These
    defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Risk
    factors related to our credit ratings


 


    As of February 16, 2009, our senior unsecured notes were
    rated Baa2 (stable), BBB- (stable) and BBB (stable) by
    Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s
    Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, respectively. We plan to
    manage the Company to maintain investment grade status with a
    capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there
    can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current
    credit ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by
    any or all of the noted rating agencies could have a material
    adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which
    could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
    results of operations, liquidity
    and/or
    financial condition.


 



    Risk
    factors related to interest rate swaps


 


    We enter into interest rate swap agreements from time to time to
    manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility. These
    swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that
    counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
    arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be
    effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates.
    When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a
    risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against
    which the swap is intended to hedge. If such events occur, our
    results of operations may be adversely affected.


 



    Risk
    factors related to environmental laws


 


    Under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of
    real estate may be required to respond to the presence or
    release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held
    liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that
    result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous
    substances. We may become liable to reimburse the government for
    damages and costs it incurs in connection with the
    contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person
    based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our
    tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition
    of the property. Moreover, we review environmental site
    assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to
    taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to
    meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we
    believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if
    environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we
    do not believe that any of our properties are subject to
    material environmental contamination. However, environmental
    liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur
    costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the
    business or financial condition of our obligors.


 



    Risk
    factors related to facilities that require entrance
    fees


 


    Certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of
    an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may
    be refundable by the operator. Some of these facilities are
    subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to
    these funds. As a result of this oversight, residents of these
    facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example,
    the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of
    time and certain lien rights. The oversight and rights of
    residents within these facilities may have an effect on the
    revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and
    therefore may negatively impact us.


 



    Risk
    factors related to facilities under construction or
    development


 


    At any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one
    or more new facilities that ultimately will require a CON and
    license before they can be utilized by the operator for their
    intended use. The operator also may need to obtain Medicare and
    Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid
    provider agreements



    
    32



Table of Contents




    and/or third
    party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable
    to obtain the necessary CON, licensure, certification, provider
    agreements or contracts after the completion of construction,
    there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on
    the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license
    or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary
    provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract
    with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate
    the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider
    agreements or contracts.


 


    In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development
    and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain,
    or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use,
    building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
    authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or
    our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be
    able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us
    unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may
    not be able to complete construction and
    lease-up of
    a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
    service expense or construction costs.


 


    Additionally, the time frame required for development,
    construction and
    lease-up of
    these properties means that we may have to wait years for
    significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash
    distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from
    operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to
    borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly
    developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow
    that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall
    financial performance.


 


    In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property,
    we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of
    that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our
    investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. If our
    financial projections with respect to a new property are
    inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected
    occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we
    expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs
    of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove
    to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our
    profitability goals. Additionally, we may acquire new properties
    that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing
    operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and
    debt service associated with that property.


 



    We do
    not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if
    they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as
    favorable terms, or at all


 


    We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases
    at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times
    through 2045. If these leases are not renewed, we would be
    required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or
    sell them. There can be no assurance that we would be able to
    identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with
    new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or
    that we would be able to lease those properties at all.


 



    Our
    ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the
    loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground
    leases


 


    We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by
    acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the
    building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in
    the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases.
    As the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the
    possibility of losing the property upon termination of the
    ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us.


 



    Illiquidity
    of real estate investments could significantly impede our
    ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our
    properties


 


    Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to
    quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to
    changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No
    assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for
    any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons.
    Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance
    of our investments could adversely affect our financial
    condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed
    to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real
    estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and healthcare
    industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could
    adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
    sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.



    
    33



Table of Contents





    Risk
    factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds


 


    From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the
    proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments
    on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties,
    including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master
    leases or similar financial support arrangements. In order to
    maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive
    returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely
    manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad
    variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive
    investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely
    investments on terms acceptable to us.


 



    Failure
    to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our
    management or increase our expenses


 


    We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively
    short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in
    the future. Our rapid growth has resulted in increased levels of
    responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions
    could place significant additional demands on, and require us to
    expand, our management, resources and personnel. Our failure to
    manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business
    and, in particular, our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our
    ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our rapid growth
    could also increase our capital requirements, which may require
    us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur
    additional debt.


 



    We
    might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a
    REIT


 


    We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code
    and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a
    manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious
    tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds
    available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to
    our stockholders for each of the years involved because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to
    stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be
    subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and
    possibly increased state and local taxes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we
    could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable
    years following the year during which we were disqualified.





 


    Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex
    requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them,
    and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of
    federal taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
    amount we could distribute to our stockholders. Also, if we were
    not a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to
    stockholders since a non-REIT is not required, in order to avoid
    an excise tax, to pay dividends to stockholders amounting to at
    least the sum of: (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for
    the year; (2) 95% of our REIT capital gain income for such
    year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay
    tax on); and (3) any undistributed taxable income from
    preceding periods. See “Item 1 —
    Business — Federal Income Tax Considerations” for
    a discussion of the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that
    apply to us and the effects of non-qualification.


 


    In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions
    to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the
    extent of our current and accumulated earning and profits,
    although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the
    dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be
    eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to
    long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%)
    with respect to distributions.


 


    As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a
    REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business
    strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common
    stock.


 


    Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly
    technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which
    there are only limited judicial and administrative
    interpretations. The determination of various factual matters
    and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our
    ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that
    we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue
    to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. See
    “Item 1 — Business —
    Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations”
    included in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.



    
    34



Table of Contents





    The
    90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity
    and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
    transactions


 


    To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to
    REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
    distributions to our stockholders. See
    “Item 1 — Business —
    Taxation — Federal Income Tax
    Considerations — Qualification as a REIT —
    Annual Distribution Requirements” included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient
    cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT
    distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to
    time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to
    meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to
    retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be
    necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due
    to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and
    actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the
    inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
    arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition,
    non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or
    repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash
    deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or
    liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution
    requirement. In the event that timing differences occur, or we
    deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue
    additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that
    we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if
    possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a
    transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution
    requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to
    meet our obligations.


 


    The amount of additional indebtedness we may incur is limited by
    the terms of our line of credit arrangement and the indentures
    governing our senior unsecured notes. In addition, adverse
    economic conditions may impact the availability of additional
    funds or could cause the terms on which we are able to borrow
    additional funds to become unfavorable. In those circumstances,
    we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital
    markets. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors
    over which we have little or no control, including rising
    interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions
    and the market’s perception of our growth potential and our
    current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and
    the market price of the shares of our capital stock. We cannot
    assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary
    to make future investments or to meet our obligations and
    commitments as they mature.


 



    Other
    risk factors


 


    We are also subject to other risks. First, our Second Restated
    Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws
    contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions,
    restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority
    stockholder approval requirements for business combinations)
    that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third
    party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent
    Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
    discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of
    our common stock.


 


    Additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. Although we
    have entered into employment agreements with our executive
    officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily,
    have an adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing
    more than one could have a material adverse impact on our
    business.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B