Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Forward-Looking
    Statements and Risk Factors


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements
    that constitute “forward-looking statements” as that
    term is defined in the federal securities laws. These
    forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to,
    those regarding:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the possible expansion of our portfolio;



 


     
        • 

    
    the sale of properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    the performance of our operators/tenants and properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for
    properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants,
    if any;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to retain or increase occupancies in our medical
    office buildings at similar or higher rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to make distributions to stockholders;



 


     
        • 

    
    our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and
    other matters;



 


     
        • 

    
    our tax status as a real estate investment trust;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to access capital markets or other sources of
    funds; and



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to meet our earnings guidance.





 


    When we use words such as “may,” “will,”
    “intend,” “should,” “believe,”
    “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate”
    or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking
    statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of



    
    26



Table of Contents




    future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Our
    expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may
    differ materially from our expectations. This may be a result of
    various factors, including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the status of the economy;



 


     
        • 

    
    the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest
    rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    issues facing the health care industry, including compliance
    with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies and
    operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively
    obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in financing terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    competition within the health care and senior housing industries;



 


     
        • 

    
    negative developments in the operating results or financial
    condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to,
    their ability to pay rent and repay loans;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable
    results;



 


     
        • 

    
    the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated;



 


     
        • 

    
    the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated;



 


     
        • 

    
    acts of God affecting our properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies
    occur;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to
    assets sold;



 


     
        • 

    
    operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies;



 


     
        • 

    
    government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid
    reimbursement rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;



 


     
        • 

    
    unanticipated difficulties
    and/or
    expenditures relating to future acquisitions;



 


     
        • 

    
    environmental laws affecting our properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;



 


     
        • 

    
    other legal and operational matters, including REIT
    qualification and key management personnel recruitment and
    retention; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the risks described below:





 



    Risk
    factors related to our operators’ revenues and
    expenses


 


    Our investment property operators’ revenues are primarily
    driven by occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if
    applicable, and private pay rates. Expenses for these facilities
    are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities,
    taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from
    government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under
    pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls.
    Liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for
    our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues
    and/or any
    increase in operating expenses result in a property not
    generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
    operator and the value of other collateral would have to be
    relied upon.


 



    Risk
    factors related to obligor bankruptcies


 


    We are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to
    meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us,
    which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that
    an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency
    proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease
    agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand
    immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our
    loans



    
    27



Table of Contents




    provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation,
    demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest,
    foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the
    bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party
    that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An obligor in
    bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to
    limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of
    a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case
    of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies.


 


    We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate
    taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment
    property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property
    and/or
    transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we
    have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property
    to another tenant. In some of those situations, we have provided
    working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new
    obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new
    tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may
    expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should such events
    occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely
    affected.


 



    Transfers
    of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and
    these facilities may not have efficient alternative
    uses


 


    Transfers of health care facilities to successor operators may
    be subject to regulatory approvals that are not required for
    transfers of other types of real estate. The replacement of an
    operator could be delayed by the approval process of any
    federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the
    facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage
    the facility. Alternatively, given the specialized nature of our
    facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and
    funds to adapt these properties to other uses. If we are unable
    to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find
    efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be
    adversely affected.


 



    Risk
    factors related to government regulations


 


    Our obligors’ businesses are affected by government
    reimbursement and private payor rates. To the extent that an
    operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues
    from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such
    revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes,
    retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments
    or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations,
    payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government
    funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to
    specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due
    to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such
    property. In recent years, governmental payors have frozen or
    reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary
    pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be
    of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We
    cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect
    any future legislative reforms may have on the financial
    condition of our obligors and properties. There can be no
    assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be
    available for services provided by any property operator,
    whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare,
    Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of
    services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could
    have a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity,
    financial condition and results of operations, which could
    adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its
    obligations to us. See “Item 1 —
    Business — Certain Government Regulations —
    Reimbursement” above.


 


    Our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive
    federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection
    laws and regulations. Our operators’ or tenants’
    failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of
    accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines,
    suspension or decertification from federal and state health care
    programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such
    actions may have an effect on our operators’ or
    tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and,
    therefore, adversely impact us.


 


    Many of our properties may require a license
    and/or
    certificate of need to operate. Failure to obtain a license or
    certificate of need, or loss of a required license or
    certificate of need would prevent a facility from operating in
    the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events
    could materially adversely affect our operators’ or
    tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us. State and
    local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition
    of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and
    the construction of health care facilities, by requiring a
    certificate of need or other similar approval.



    
    28



Table of Contents



 



    Risk
    factors related to liability claims and insurance
    costs


 


    Long-term care property operators (skilled nursing facilities,
    assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing
    care retirement communities) have experienced substantial
    increases in both the number and size of patient care liability
    claims in recent years, particularly in the states of Texas and
    Florida. As a result, general and professional liability costs
    have increased and may continue to increase. Long-term care
    liability insurance rates are increasing nationwide because of
    large jury awards. Over the past four years, both Texas and
    Florida have adopted skilled nursing property liability laws
    that modify or limit tort damages. Despite some of these
    reforms, the long-term care industry overall continues to
    experience very high general and professional liability costs.
    Insurance companies have responded to this claims crisis by
    severely restricting their capacity to write long-term care
    general and professional liability policies. No assurances can
    be given that the climate for long-term care general and
    professional liability insurance will improve in any of the
    foregoing states or any other states where the property
    operators conduct business. Insurance companies may continue to
    reduce or stop writing general and professional liability
    policies for long-term care facilities. Thus, general and
    professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or
    very costly, which may adversely affect the property
    operators’ future operations, cash flows and financial
    condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the
    property operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us.


 



    Risk
    factors related to acquisitions


 


    We are exposed to the risk that our future acquisitions may not
    prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated
    difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
    properties, including contingent liabilities, and newly acquired
    properties might require significant management attention that
    would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree
    to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the
    project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure
    completion of the project. Moreover, if we issue equity
    securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future
    acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results.
    These costs may negatively affect our results of operations.


 



    Risk
    factors related to environmental laws


 


    Under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of
    real estate may be required to respond to the presence or
    release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held
    liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that
    result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous
    substances. We may become liable to reimburse the government for
    damages and costs it incurs in connection with the
    contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person
    based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our
    tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition
    of the property. Moreover, we review environmental site
    assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to
    taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to
    meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we
    believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if
    environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we
    do not believe that any of our properties are subject to
    material environmental contamination. However, environmental
    liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur
    costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the
    business or financial condition of our obligors.


 



    Risk
    factors related to facilities that require entrance
    fees


 


    Certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of
    an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may
    be refundable by the operator. Some of these facilities are
    subject to substantial oversight by state regulators. As a
    result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have
    a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel
    their contracts within a specified period of time and certain
    lien rights. The oversight and rights of residents within these
    facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of
    the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively
    impact us.



    
    29



Table of Contents



 



    Risk
    factors related to facilities under construction or
    development


 


    At any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one
    or more new facilities that ultimately will require a license
    before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended
    use. The operator also will need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid
    provider agreements or third party payor contracts. In the event
    that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary licensure,
    provider agreements on contracts  after the completion of
    construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn
    any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator
    obtains a license to operate the new facility and the necessary
    provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract
    with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate
    the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider
    agreements or contracts.


 


    In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development
    and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain,
    or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use,
    building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
    authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or
    our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be
    able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us
    unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may
    not be able to complete construction and
    lease-up of
    a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
    service expense or construction costs.


 


    Additionally, the time frame required for development,
    construction and
    lease-up of
    these properties means that we may have to wait years for
    significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash
    distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from
    operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to
    borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly
    developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow
    that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall
    financial performance.


 


    In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property,
    we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of
    that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our
    investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. If our
    financial projections with respect to a new property are
    inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected
    occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we
    expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs
    of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove
    to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our
    profitability goals. Additionally, we may acquire new properties
    not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may
    be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service
    associated with that property.


 



    We do
    not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if
    they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as
    favorable terms, or at all


 


    We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases
    at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times
    through 2021. If these leases are not renewed, we would be
    required to find other tenants to occupy those properties. There
    can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable
    replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on
    terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would
    be able to lease those properties at all.


 



    Our
    ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the
    loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground
    leases


 


    We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by
    acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the
    building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in
    the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases.
    As the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the
    possibility of losing the property upon termination of the
    ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us.



    
    30



Table of Contents



 



    Illiquidity
    of real estate investments could significantly impede our
    ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our
    properties


 


    Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to
    quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to
    changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No
    assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for
    any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons.
    Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance
    of our investments could adversely affect our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Risk
    factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds


 


    From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the
    proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments
    on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties,
    including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master
    leases or similar financial support arrangements. We must
    re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in properties or in
    qualified short-term investments. We compete for real estate
    investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This
    competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our
    ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us.
    Delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues
    and perhaps our ability to make distributions to stockholders.


 



    Failure
    to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our
    management or increase our expenses


 


    We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively
    short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in
    the future. Our rapid growth has resulted in increased levels of
    responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions
    could place significant additional demands on, and require us to
    expand, our management, resources and personnel. Our failure to
    manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business
    and, in particular, our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our
    ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our rapid growth
    could also increase our capital requirements, which may require
    us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur
    additional debt.


 



    Other
    risk factors


 


    We are also subject to a number of other risks. First, we might
    fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. We intend to
    operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and believe we
    have and will continue to operate in such a manner. Since REIT
    qualification requires us to meet a number of complex
    requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them,
    and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of
    federal taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
    amount we could distribute to our stockholders. Also, if we were
    not a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to
    stockholders since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends
    to stockholders amounting to at least the sum of (1) 85% of our
    REIT ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our REIT capital
    gain income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect
    to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any undistributed taxable
    income from preceding periods. See “Item 1 —
    Business — Taxation” for a discussion of the
    provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that apply to us and the
    effects of non-qualification.


 


    Second, our Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation and
    Amended and Restated By-Laws contain anti-takeover provisions
    (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and
    transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements
    for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
    or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the
    approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and
    agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could
    reduce the market value of our common stock.


 


    Third, we are dependent on key personnel. Although we have
    entered into employment agreements with our executive officers,
    losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an
    adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing more
    than one would have a material adverse impact on our business.



    
    31



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1B