Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors


 



    Forward-Looking
    Statements and Risk Factors


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements
    that constitute “forward-looking statements” as that
    term is defined in the federal securities laws. These
    forward-looking statements include those regarding:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the possible expansion of our portfolio;



 


     
        • 

    
    the sale of properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    the performance of our operators and properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for
    properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants,
    if any;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to make distributions;



 


     
        • 

    
    our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and
    other matters;



 


     
        • 

    
    our tax status as a real estate investment trust;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity;






    
    25



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to access capital markets or other sources of
    funds; and



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to meet our earnings guidance.





 


    For example, when we use words such as “may,”
    “will,” “intend,” “should,”
    “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,”
    “estimate” or similar expressions, we are making
    forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not
    guarantees of future performance and involve risks and
    uncertainties. Our expected results may not be achieved, and
    actual results may differ materially from our expectations. This
    may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited
    to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the status of the economy;



 


     
        • 

    
    the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest
    rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    serious issues facing the health care industry, including
    compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment
    policies and operators’ difficulty in obtaining and
    maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in financing terms;



 


     
        • 

    
    competition within the health care and senior housing industries;



 


     
        • 

    
    negative developments in the operating results or financial
    condition of operators, including, but not limited to, their
    ability to pay rent and repay loans;



 


     
        • 

    
    the Company’s ability to transition or sell facilities with
    profitable results;



 


     
        • 

    
    the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated;



 


     
        • 

    
    acts of God affecting our properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets
    sold;



 


     
        • 

    
    operator bankruptcies or insolvencies;



 


     
        • 

    
    government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid
    reimbursement rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    liability claims and insurance costs for our operators;



 


     
        • 

    
    unanticipated difficulties
    and/or
    expenditures relating to future acquisitions;



 


     
        • 

    
    environmental laws affecting our properties;



 


     
        • 

    
    delays in reinvestment of sale proceeds;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in rules or practices governing the Company’s
    financial reporting;



 


     
        • 

    
    other factors, including REIT qualification, anti-takeover
    provisions and key management personnel; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the risks described below:





 



    Risk
    factors related to our operators’ revenues and
    expenses


 


    Our facility operators’ revenues are primarily driven by
    occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable,
    and private pay rates. Expenses for these facilities are
    primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes,
    insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from government
    reimbursement have, and may continue, to come under pressure due
    to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Liability
    insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our
    operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues
    and/or any
    increase in operating expenses result in a facility not
    generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
    operator and the value of other collateral would have to be
    relied upon.



    
    26



Table of Contents





    Risk
    factors related to operator bankruptcies


 


    We are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to
    meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us,
    which may result in an operator bankruptcy or insolvency, or
    that an operator might become subject to bankruptcy or
    insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating
    lease agreements provide us with the right to evict an operator,
    demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies,
    and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding
    obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid
    interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other
    remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party
    that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in
    bankruptcy may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect
    unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid
    principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise
    other rights and remedies.


 


    We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate
    taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of a facility,
    avoid the imposition of liens on a facility
    and/or
    transition a facility to a new operator. In some instances, we
    have terminated our lease with an operator and relet the
    facility to another operator. In some of those situations, we
    have provided working capital loans to and limited
    indemnification of the new operator. If we cannot transition a
    leased facility to a new operator, we may take possession of
    that facility, which may expose us to certain successor
    liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating
    cash flow may be adversely affected.


 



    Risk
    factors related to government regulations


 


    Our operators’ businesses are affected by government
    reimbursement and private payor rates. To the extent that a
    facility receives a significant portion of its revenues from
    governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such
    revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes,
    retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments
    or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations,
    payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government
    funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to
    specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due
    to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such
    facility. In recent years, governmental payors have frozen or
    reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary
    pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be
    of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We
    cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect
    any future legislative reforms may have on the financial
    condition of the skilled nursing industry, the specialty care
    industry or the health care industry in general. There can be no
    assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be
    available for services provided by any facility operator,
    whether the facility receives reimbursement from Medicare,
    Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of
    services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could
    have a material adverse effect on an operator’s liquidity,
    financial condition and results of operations, which could
    adversely affect the ability of an operator to meet its
    obligations to us. In addition, the replacement of an operator
    that has defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the
    approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary
    for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the
    operator licensed to manage the facility. See
    “Item 1 — Business — Certain
    Government Regulations — Reimbursement”
    above.


 



    Risk
    factors related to liability claims and insurance
    costs


 


    Long-term care facility operators (skilled nursing facilities,
    assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing
    care retirement communities) have experienced substantial
    increases in both the number and size of patient care liability
    claims in recent years, particularly in the states of Texas and
    Florida. As a result, general and professional liability costs
    have increased and may continue to increase. Long-term care
    liability insurance rates are increasing nationwide because of
    large jury awards in states like Texas and Florida. Over the
    past four years, both Texas and Florida have adopted skilled
    nursing facility liability laws that modify or limit tort
    damages. Despite some of these reforms, the long-term care
    industry overall continues to experience very high general and
    professional liability costs. Insurance companies have responded
    to this claims crisis by severely restricting their capacity to
    write long-term care general and professional liability
    policies. No assurances can be given that the climate for
    long-term care general and professional liability insurance will
    improve in any of the foregoing states or any other states where
    the facility operators conduct business. Insurance companies may
    continue to reduce or stop writing general and professional
    liability policies for long-term care facilities. Thus, general
    professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or
    very costly, which may adversely affect the facility
    operators’ future



    
    27



Table of Contents




    operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a
    material adverse effect on the facility operators’ ability
    to meet their obligations to us.


 



    Risk
    factors related to acquisitions


 


    We are exposed to the risk that our future acquisitions may not
    prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated
    difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
    properties, including contingent liabilities, and newly acquired
    properties might require significant management attention that
    would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. If we agree
    to provide construction funding to an operator and the project
    is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion
    of the project or we could lose the property. Moreover, if we
    issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to
    finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share
    financial results. These costs may negatively affect our results
    of operations.


 



    Risk
    factors related to environmental laws


 


    Under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of
    real estate may be required to respond to the release of
    hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for
    property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from
    environmental contamination. These laws also expose us to the
    possibility that we may become liable to reimburse the
    government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with
    the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a
    person based on the person’s relationship to the property.
    Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the
    condition of the property and since we are a passive landlord,
    we do not “participate in the management” of any
    property in which we have an interest. Moreover, we review
    environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or
    encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments
    are designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry”
    standard, which qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense
    if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments,
    we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to
    material environmental contamination. However, environmental
    liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur
    costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business or financial condition.


 



    Risk
    factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds


 


    From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the
    proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments
    on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties,
    including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master
    leases or similar financial support arrangements. We must
    re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in properties or in
    qualified short-term investments. We compete for real estate
    investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This
    competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our
    ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us.
    Delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues
    and perhaps our ability to make distributions to stockholders.


 



    Other
    risk factors


 


    We are also subject to a number of other risks. First, we might
    fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. We intend to
    operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and believe we
    have and will continue to operate in such a manner. Since REIT
    qualification requires us to meet a number of complex
    requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them,
    and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of
    federal taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
    amount we could distribute to our stockholders. Also, if we were
    not a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to
    stockholders since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends
    to stockholders amounting to at least 90% of its annual taxable
    income (including 100% of capital gains). See
    “Item 1 — Business — Taxation”
    for a discussion of the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
    that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification.


 


    Second, our Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation and
    Amended and Restated By-Laws contain anti-takeover provisions
    (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and
    transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements
    for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
    or even prevent



    
    28



Table of Contents




    a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our
    incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that
    inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market
    value of our common stock.


 


    Third, we are dependent on key personnel. Although we have
    entered into employment agreements with our executive officers,
    losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an
    adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing more
    than one would have a material adverse impact on our business.


 



    Item 1B