Item 1A. 

 Healthcare Property Types  

         Senior housing.    At December 31, 2008, we had interests in 264 senior housing facilities, including 25 facilities owned by our
Investment
Management Platform(1). Senior housing facilities include independent living facilities ("ILFs"), assisted living facilities ("ALFs") and continuing care retirement communities
("CCRCs"), which cater to different segments of the elderly population based upon their needs. Services provided by our operators or tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents
directly or through private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement programs such as Medicaid and Medicare. Our senior housing property types are further described
below: 



•Independent Living Facilities.  ILFs are designed to meet
the needs of seniors who choose to live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need assistance with
activities of daily living ("ADL"), such as bathing, eating and dressing. However, residents have the option to contract for these services. At December 31, 2008, we had interests in 49 ILFs.  
•Assisted Living Facilities.  ALFs are licensed care
facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those who need help with ADL yet require limited medical care. The programs and services may include transportation, social
activities, exercise and fitness programs, 

5




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents




beauty
or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by residents. These facilities are often in apartment-like
buildings with private residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with Alzheimer's disease or other forms of
dementia. Levels of personal assistance are based in part on local regulations. At December 31, 2008, we had interests in 200 ALFs.  



•Continuing Care Retirement Communities.  CCRCs provide
housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. This alternative is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health and medical needs change, thus allowing
residents to "age in place." Some CCRCs require a substantial entry or buy-in fee and most also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services. CCRCs
typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and independent upon entry. At December 31, 2008, we had interests in 15 CCRCs. 


        Our
senior housing segment accounted for approximately 34%, 40% and 38% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table
provides information about our senior housing operator concentration for the year ended December 31, 2008: 















Operators



 
 
Percentage of
Segment Revenues 
 
Percentage of
Total Revenues 
 


 Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. ("Sunrise")(2)
 
 
44
%
 
15
%


 Brookdale Senior Living Inc. ("Brookdale")
 
 
19
%
 
7
%










(1)Investment
Management Platform represents the following joint ventures: (i) HCP Ventures II, (ii) HCP Ventures III, LLC, (iii) HCP Ventures IV, LLC, and
(iv) the HCP Life Science ventures.
(2)Certain
of our properties are leased to tenants who have entered into management contracts with Sunrise to operate the respective property on their behalf.
To determine our concentration of revenues generated from properties operated by Sunrise, we aggregate revenue from these tenants with revenue generated from the two properties that are leased
directly to Sunrise. On December 1, 2008, we transitioned an 11-property portfolio to Emeritus Corporation that was previously operated by Sunrise. The percentage of segment revenues and total
revenues for Sunrise includes revenues from the transferred properties for the 11-month period preceding the transfer date. 

        In addition to the operator concentration above, HCP Ventures II, a 35% owned joint venture, leases 25 senior housing facilities to Horizon Bay
Retirement Living. During the year ended December 31, 2008, HCP Ventures II's rental and related revenues were $83.4 million. 

         Life science.    At December 31, 2008, we had interests in 104 life science properties, including eight facilities owned by our
Investment
Management Platform. These properties contain laboratory and office space primarily for biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, scientific research institutions, government agencies and other
organizations involved in the life science industry. While these properties contain similar characteristics to commercial office buildings, they generally contain more advanced electrical, mechanical
and HVAC systems. The facilities generally have equipment including emergency generators, fume hoods, lab bench tops, and related amenities. In many instances life science tenants make significant
investments to improve the space in addition to a landlord's improvement allowance to accommodate biology or chemistry research initiatives. Life science properties are primarily configured in
business park or campus settings and include multiple facilities and buildings. The business park and campus settings allow us the opportunity to provide flexible, contiguous/adjacent expansion that
accommodates the growth of existing tenants in place. Our properties are located in well established geographical markets known for scientific research, including San Francisco, San Diego and Salt
Lake City. 

6




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Our
life science segment accounted for approximately 24%, 11% and 4% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table
provides information about our life science tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2008: 















Tenants



 
 
Percentage of Segment Revenues 
 
Percentage of Total Revenues 
 


 Genentech, Inc. ("Genentech")
 
 
17
%
 
4
%


 Amgen, Inc. 
 
 
13
%
 
3
%





         Medical office.    At December 31, 2008, we had interests in 251 medical office buildings ("MOBs"), including 63 facilities owned by
our
Investment Management Platform. These facilities typically contain physicians' offices and examination rooms, and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and outpatient services
such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and
mechanical systems to accommodate multiple exam rooms that may require sinks in every room, and special equipment such as x-ray machines. Our MOBs are typically multi-tenant properties leased to
multiple healthcare providers (hospitals and physician practices) and are primarily located on hospital campuses. Approximately 83% of our MOBs, based on square feet, are located on hospital campuses. 

        Our
medical office segment accounted for approximately 30%, 36% and 40% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. During the year ended
December 31, 2008, HCA, Inc. ("HCA"), as our tenant, contributed 15% of our medical office segment revenues. 

         Hospital.    At December 31, 2008, we had interests in 24 hospitals, including four facilities owned by our Investment Management
Platform.
Services provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are paid for by private sources, third-party payors (e.g., insurance and Health Maintenance Organizations ("HMOs")), or through the
Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our hospital property types include acute care, long-term acute care, specialty and rehabilitation hospitals. Our hospitals are all leased to single tenants or
operators under triple-net lease structures. 

        Our
hospital segment accounted for approximately 8%, 9% and 11% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table provides
information about our hospital operator/tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2008: 















Operators/Tenants



 
 
Percentage of
Segment Revenues 
 
Percentage of
Total Revenues 
 


 Tenet Healthcare Corporation ("Tenet"). 
 
 
46
%
 
4
%


 HCA
 
 
26
%
 
7
%(1)










(1)Percentage
of total revenues from HCA includes revenues earned from both our medical office and hospital segments. In addition to lease-related revenues, we
earned $24 million of interest income during the year ended December 31, 2008 from marketable debt securities issued by HCA. Including interest earned from marketable debt securities, we
recognized income of $95 million from HCA during the year ended December 31, 2008. 


        Skilled nursing.    At December 31, 2008, we had interests in 51 skilled nursing facilities ("SNFs"). SNFs offer restorative,
rehabilitative and
custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and revenues from sub-acute care services are derived from
providing services to residents beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and orthopedic
therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other services. Certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing services on an out-patient basis. Skilled nursing services
provided by our operators and tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either 

7




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



by
private sources or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs. All of our SNFs are leased to single tenants under triple-net lease structures. 

        Our
skilled nursing segment accounted for approximately 4%, 4% and 7% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table
provides information about our skilled nursing operator/tenant concentration for the year ended December 31, 2008: 















Operators/Tenants



 
 
Percentage of
Segment Revenues 
 
Percentage of
Total Revenues 
 


 Covenant Care
 
 
25
%
 
1
%


 Kindred Healthcare, Inc. 
 
 
22
%
 
1
%


 Formation Capital
 
 
19
%
 
1
%





        In addition to our investments in assets under leases, our skilled nursing segment also includes an investment in mezzanine loans to HCR
ManorCare. These loans have an aggregate face value of $1.0 billion, which we purchased, at a discount of approximately $100 million, as part of the financing for The Carlyle Group's $6.3 billion
purchase of HCR ManorCare. These loans bear interest on their face amounts at a floating rate of one-month LIBOR plus 4.0%, and mature in January 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we
earned approximately $84 million of interest income from these mezzanine loans. 

 Investment Products  

         Properties under lease.    At December 31, 2008, our investment in properties leased to third parties aggregated approximately $10
billion
representing 586 properties, including 30 properties accounted for as direct financing leases ("DFLs"). We primarily generate revenue by leasing properties under long-term leases. Most of our rents
and other earned income from leases are received under triple-net leases or leases that provide for substantial recovery of operating expenses. However, some of our medical office building ("MOBs")
and life science facility rents are structured under gross or modified gross leases. Accordingly, for such gross or modified gross leases, we incur certain property operating expenses, such as real
estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, property management fees, utilities and insurance. 

        Our
ability to grow rental income from properties under lease depends, in part, on our ability to (i) increase rental income and other earned income from leases by increasing rental
rates and occupancy levels, (ii) maximize tenant recoveries and (iii) control non-recoverable operating expenses. Most of our leases include annual base rent escalation clauses that are either
predetermined fixed increases or are a function of an inflation index. 

        Investment Management.    At December 31, 2008, our Investment Management Platform aggregated $2.0
billion in investments, representing 100 properties. We co-invest in real estate properties with institutional investors through joint ventures structured as partnerships or limited liability
companies. We target institutional investors with long-term investment horizons who seek to benefit from our expertise in healthcare real estate. Predominantly, we retain minority interests in the
joint ventures ranging from 20% to 63% and serve as the managing member. These ventures generally allow us to earn acquisition and asset management fees, and have the potential for promoted interests
or incentive distributions based on performance of the joint venture. 

         Developments.    At December 31, 2008, our investment in properties under development, including redevelopment, or land held for
future
development, aggregated $577 million. We generally commit to development projects that are at least 50% pre-leased or when we believe that market conditions will support speculative construction. We
work closely with our local real estate service providers, including brokerage, property management, project management and construction management companies to 

8




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



assist
us in evaluating development proposals and completing developments. Our development investments are primarily in our life science and medical office segments. 

         Mezzanine loans.    At December 31, 2008, our mezzanine loans and other debt investments aggregated $1.3 billion. Our mezzanine loans
are
generally secured by a pledge of ownership interests of an entity or entities, which directly or indirectly own properties, and are subordinate to more senior debt, including mortgages and more senior
mezzanine loans. Our other debt investments consist primarily of marketable debt securities issued by healthcare providers and mortgages secured by healthcare real estate or real estate interests. 

         DownREITs.    Our DownREIT partnership structure enables us to acquire and hold real estate properties in an operating partnership. In
connection with
the formation of certain DownREIT partnerships, many partners contribute appreciated real estate to the DownREIT in exchange for DownREIT units that can be redeemed, or, at our election, exchanged at
some future date for shares of our stock. These contributions are generally tax-deferred, so that the pre-contribution gain related to the property is not taxed to the contributing partner. However,
if the contributed property is later sold by the partnership, the unamortized pre-contribution gain that exists at the date of sale is specially allocated and taxed to the contributing partners. Since
the formation of our first DownREIT partnership, we have acquired more than $1.0 billion of properties through DownREIT structures. 

 Portfolio Summary  

        At December 31, 2008, we managed $13.2 billion of investments owned in our Owned Portfolio and Investment Management Platform.
At December 31, 2008, we also owned $577 million of assets under development, including redevelopment, or land held for future development. 


 Owned Portfolio  

        As of December 31, 2008, our properties under lease and debt investments in our Owned Portfolio consisted of the following
(square feet and dollars in thousands): 
























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2008 
 


Segment



 
 
Number of
Properties 
 
Capacity(1) 
 
Investment(2) 
 
NOI(3) 
 
Interest
Income(4) 
 


 Senior housing
 
 
239
 
25,822 Units
 
$
4,145,965
 
$
337,533
 
$
1,184
 


 Life science
 
 
96
 
6,126 Sq. ft.
 
 
2,810,577
 
 
198,788
 
 
—
 


 Medical office
 
 
188
 
12,952 Sq. ft.
 
 
2,125,280
 
 
173,442
 
 
—
 


 Hospital
 
 
20
 
2,620 Beds
 
 
1,008,506
 
 
81,518
 
 
44,515
 


 Skilled nursing
 
 
51
 
6,123 Beds
 
 
1,172,212
 
 
35,982
 
 
85,858
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Total
 
 
594
 
 
 
$
11,262,540
 
$
827,263
 
$
131,557
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





        See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report for additional information on our business segments. 






(1)Senior housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units). Life science facilities and
medical office buildings are measured in square feet. Hospitals and skilled nursing facilities are measured in licensed bed count.
(2)Investment
represents (i) the carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization,
excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations and (ii) the carrying amount of direct financing leases and debt investments, excluding interest accretion.
(3)Net
Operating Income from Continuing Operations ("NOI") is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating performance of real
estate properties. For the reconciliation of NOI to net income for 2008, refer to Note 16 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
(4)Interest
income represents income earned from our mezzanine loans and other debt investments, which is included in interest and other income, net in our
consolidated statements of income. 
9






<A
NAME="page_df17901_1_10"> 









































Table of Contents 

        At December 31, 2008, in addition to our investments in properties under lease and debt investments, we own $577 million in assets under development,
including redevelopment, and land held for future development. 


 Investment Management Platform  

        As of December 31, 2008, our Investment Management Platform consisted of the following properties under lease (square feet and
dollars in thousands): 


























Segment



 
 
Number of
Properties 
 
Capacity(1) 
 
HCP's
Ownership
Interest 
 
Joint Venture
Investment(2) 
 
Total
Revenues 
 
Total
Operating
Expenses 
 


 Senior housing
 
 
25
 
5,629 Units
 
35%
 
$
1,100,085
 
$
83,421
 
$
4
 


 Life science
 
 
8
 
389 Sq. ft.
 
20 - 63%
 
 
104,182
 
 
12,022
 
 
1,993
 


 Medical office
 
 
63
 
3,369 Sq. ft.
 
20 - 30%
 
 
690,652
 
 
78,226
 
 
32,189
 


 Hospital
 
 
4
 
N/A(3)
 
20%
 
 
81,373
 
 
7,920
 
 
862
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 Total
 
 
100
 
 
 
 
 
$
1,976,292
 
$
181,589
 
$
35,048
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 










(1)Senior
housing facilities are measured in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units), life science facilities and medical office buildings are measured
in square feet and hospitals are measured in licensed bed count.
(2)Represents
the joint ventures' carrying amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization.
(3)Information
not provided by the respective operator or tenant. 

 Employees of HCP  

        At December 31, 2008, we had 144 full-time employees, none of whom are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. 

 Taxation of HCP, Inc.  

        HCP, Inc. believes that it has operated in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a REIT under Sections 856 to 860 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1985, and it intends to continue to operate in such a manner. No assurance can be given that HCP,
Inc. has operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or to remain so qualified. For a description of the risks associated with HCP, Inc.'s REIT structure and the
related tax provisions governing HCP, Inc., see "Risk Factors—Tax and REIT-Related Risks" in Item 1A. of this report. This summary is qualified in its entirety by the applicable Code
provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof. 

        If
HCP, Inc. qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it will generally not be required to pay federal corporate income taxes on the portion of its net income that is currently distributed to
stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the "double taxation" (i.e., taxation at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a corporation. However,
HCP, Inc. will be required to pay federal income tax under certain circumstances. 

        The
Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association which meets the following statutory requirements: (i) it is managed by one or more trustees or directors; (ii) its
beneficial ownership is evidenced by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) it would be taxable as a domestic corporation, but for Sections 856
through 860 of the Code; (iv) it is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code; (v) its beneficial ownership is held by 100 or more
persons; (vi) during the last half of each taxable year 

10




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



not
more than 50% in value of its outstanding stock is owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals; and (vii) it meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the amount of
its distributions and the nature of its income and assets. The Code provides that conditions (i) to (iv), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable year and that condition (v) must be met
during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. In addition, conditions (v) and (vi) do not apply in the first taxable
year for which an election to be treated as a REIT is effective. 

        At
the close of each taxable year, HCP, Inc. must meet two gross income requirements. First, for each taxable year, at least 75% of HCP, Inc.'s gross income (excluding gross income from
"prohibited transactions" (as defined below), certain hedging transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, and certain foreign currency gains recognized after July 30, 2008) must be derived directly
or indirectly from investments relating to real property, including rents from real property, or mortgages, certain mezzanine loans or from certain types of temporary investment income. Second, at
least 95% of HCP, Inc.'s gross income for each taxable year (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions, certain hedging transactions, and certain foreign currency gains recognized after July
30, 2008) must be derived from income that qualifies under the 75% test and other dividends, interest and gain from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities. A "prohibited transaction" is
a sale or other disposition of property (other than foreclosure property) held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Under newly enacted legislation, after January 1, 2009, rents
received by HCP, Inc. from the lease of certain healthcare properties to its taxable REIT subsidiaries (each a "TRS" and collectively, "TRSs") may qualify as rents for purposes of the gross income
requirements if the property is operated on behalf of the TRS by a person that is an independent contractor and certain other requirements are met. 


        At
the close of each quarter of HCP, Inc.'s taxable year, it must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of its assets. First, at least 75% of the value of HCP, Inc.'s total
assets must be represented by real estate assets (including shares of stock of other REITs), cash, cash items, or government securities. For purposes of this test, the term "real estate assets"
generally means real property (including interests in real property and mortgages, and certain mezzanine loans) and shares in other REITs, as well as any stock or debt instrument attributable to the
investment of the proceeds of a stock offering
or a public debt offering with a term of at least five years, but only for the one-year period beginning on the date the proceeds are received. Second, not more than 25% of HCP, Inc.'s total assets
may be represented by securities other than those in the 75% asset class. Third, of the investments included in the 25% asset class and except for certain investments in other REITs, "qualified REIT
subsidiaries" and TRSs, the value of any one issuer's securities owned by HCP, Inc. may not exceed 5% of the value of HCP, Inc.'s total assets, and HCP, Inc. may not own more than 10% of the vote or
value of the securities of any one issuer. Solely for purposes of the 10% value test, however, certain securities including, but not limited to, securities having specified characteristics ("straight
debt"), loans to an individual or an estate, obligations to pay rents from real property and securities issued by a REIT, are disregarded as securities. Fourth, not more than 20% (25% for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2009) of the value of HCP, Inc.'s total assets may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. 


        HCP,
Inc., directly and indirectly, owns interests in various partnerships and limited liability companies. In the case of a REIT that is a partner in a partnership or a member of a
limited liability company that is treated as a partnership under the Code, for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests, the REIT will be deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of the
partnership or limited liability company and will be deemed to be entitled to its proportionate share of gross income of the partnership or limited liability company, in each case, determined in
accordance with the REIT's capital interest in the entity (subject to special rules related to the 10% asset test). The ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability company by a REIT
may involve special tax risks, 

11




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



including
the challenge by the Internal Revenue Service of the allocations of income and expense items of the partnership or limited liability company, which would affect the computation of taxable
income of the REIT, and the status of the partnership or limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an association taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax
purposes.

        HCP,
Inc. also owns interests in a number of subsidiaries which are intended to be treated as qualified REIT subsidiaries ("QRS"). A corporation will qualify as a qualified REIT
subsidiary of HCP, Inc. if HCP, Inc. owns 100% of the outstanding stock of the corporation directly or through other disregarded entities, and HCP, Inc. does not elect with the subsidiary to treat it
as a "taxable REIT subsidiary," (or "TRS"), as described below. A QRS is not treated as a separate corporation for federal income tax purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income,
deduction and credit of such subsidiaries will be treated as the assets, liabilities and such items of HCP, Inc. for purposes of the REIT income and asset tests. If any partnership, limited liability
company or QRS in which HCP, Inc. owns an interest were treated as a corporation (other than a TRS or a REIT) for federal income tax purposes, HCP, Inc. could fail to satisfy the REIT income and asset
tests described above and could therefore fail to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions apply. Except with respect to certain entities in which HCP, Inc. owns less than a 10% interest,
HCP, Inc. believes that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies and subsidiaries (other than TRSs), in which it owns an interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership,
disregarded entity (in the case of a 100% owned partnership or limited liability company), REIT or QRS, as applicable, although no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service will not
successfully challenge the status of any such entity. 

        As
of December 31, 2008, HCP, Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT, Inc. ("HCP Life Science REIT") owned interests in 13 subsidiaries which have elected to be TRSs. A REIT may own any
percentage of the voting stock and value of the securities of a corporation which jointly elects with the REIT to be a TRS, provided certain requirements are met. A TRS generally may engage in any
business, including the provision of customary or noncustomary services to tenants of its parent REIT and of others, except a TRS may not directly or indirectly manage or operate a lodging or
healthcare facility or directly or indirectly provide to any other person (under a franchise, license or otherwise) rights to any brand name under which any lodging or health care facility is
operated. A TRS is treated as a regular corporation and is subject to federal income tax and applicable state income taxes at regular corporate rates. In addition, a 100% tax may be imposed on a REIT
if the arrangement between the REIT or its tenants and its TRS are not on arm's length terms and, as a result, the REIT's rents or other income or the TRS's deductions are overstated. 

        In
order to qualify as a REIT, HCP, Inc. is required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to its stockholders in an amount at least equal to (A) the sum of (i) 90%
of its "real estate investment trust taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and its net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income, if any (after tax), from
foreclosure property, minus (B) the sum of certain items of non-cash income. Such distributions must be paid, or treated as paid, in the taxable year to which they relate. At HCP, Inc.'s
election, a distribution will be treated as paid in a taxable year if it is declared before HCP, Inc. timely files its tax return for such year and is paid on or before the first regular dividend
payment after such declaration, provided such payment is made during the twelve-month period following the close of such year. To the extent that HCP, Inc. does not distribute all of its net capital
gain or distributes at least 90%, but less than 100%, of its "real estate investment trust taxable income," as adjusted, HCP, Inc. will be required to pay tax on the undistributed amount at regular
corporate tax rates. Furthermore, if HCP, Inc. fails to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (i) 85% of its ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95% of its capital gain net income
for such year and (iii) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, HCP, Inc. would be required to pay a 4% excise tax on the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually
distributed. While historically HCP, Inc. has satisfied the distribution requirements 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



discussed
above by making cash distributions to its shareholders, a REIT is permitted to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited
circumstances, its own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2009, recent Internal Revenue Service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of the
distribution requirements discussed above through the distribution of shares of HCP, Inc. common stock, if certain conditions are met. 

        On
July 27, 2007, we formed HCP Life Science REIT, Inc. ("HCP Life Science REIT") which elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code commencing with its
initial taxable year ended December 31, 2007. We believe that HCP Life Science REIT has operated in such a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Code commencing with its initial
taxable year and HCP Life Science REIT intends to continue to operate in such a manner. Provided that HCP Life Science REIT qualifies as a REIT, HCP, Inc.'s interest in HCP Life Science REIT is
treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset requirements and any dividend income or gains derived by HCP, Inc. from the stock of HCP Life Science REIT is generally treated
as income
that qualifies for purposes of the REIT income requirements. To qualify as a REIT, HCP Life Science REIT must independently satisfy the various REIT qualification requirements, including distributions
of REIT taxable income. If HCP Life Science REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to federal income tax. In
addition, a failure of HCP Life Science REIT to qualify as a REIT could have an adverse effect on HCP, Inc.'s ability to comply with the REIT asset and income requirements described above, and thus
its ability to qualify as a REIT. 

        If
HCP, Inc. or HCP Life Science REIT fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year and certain relief provisions do not apply, the applicable REIT will be required to pay
tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Dividend distributions to stockholders in any year in which it fails to qualify will not be
deductible by the applicable REIT nor will such distributions be required to be made. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, the applicable REIT will also be disqualified from
taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. Failure to qualify for even one year could substantially reduce distributions to stockholders and
could result in us incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes. 

        In
addition to federal income taxes, HCP, Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT may be required to pay state and local taxes in various jurisdictions. 

        HCP,
Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT may also be subject to certain other taxes applicable to REITs, including taxes in lieu of disqualification as a REIT, on undistributed income, on
income from prohibited transactions, on net income from foreclosure property and on built-in gains from the sale of certain assets acquired from C corporations in tax-free transactions (including the
assets of Slough Estates USA Inc. ("SEUSA") held by HCP Life Science REIT) during a specified time period. 

 Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement  



 Overview  



        Our tenants and operators are typically subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local healthcare laws and regulations
relating to fraud and abuse practices, government reimbursement, licensure and certificate of need and similar laws governing the operation of healthcare facilities. These regulations are wide-ranging
and can subject our tenants and operators to civil, criminal and administrative sanctions. Affected tenants and operators may find it increasingly difficult to comply with this complex and evolving
regulatory regime because of a relative lack of guidance in many areas as certain of our healthcare properties are subject to oversight from several government agencies and the 

13




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

laws
may vary from one jurisdiction to another. Changes in laws and regulations and reimbursement enforcement activity and regulatory non-compliance by our tenants and operators can all have a
significant effect on their operations and financial condition, which in turn may adversely impact us, as detailed below and set forth under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. 

        We
seek to mitigate the risk to us resulting from the significant healthcare regulatory risks faced by our tenants and operators by diversifying our portfolio among property types and
geographical areas, diversifying our tenant and operator base to limit our exposure to any single entity, and seeking tenants and operators who are not primarily dependent on Medicare or Medicaid
reimbursement for their revenues. As of December 31, 2008, our investments in the senior housing, life science, medical office, skilled nursing and hospital segments represented approximately 36%,
28%, 18%, 10% and 8% of our portfolio, respectively, based on investment amount. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we estimate that approximately 8% and 24% of our tenants' and operators' revenues
were derived from Medicare and Medicaid, respectively, based on information provided by our tenants and operators. 

        The
following is a discussion of certain laws and regulations generally applicable to our operators and in certain cases, to us, as well as descriptions of some of the specific risks to
which different types of our tenants and operators are subject. 



 Fraud and Abuse Enforcement  



        There are various extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and
arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. These laws include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing
false claims or making false statements to
receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the Medicare and Medicaid
anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state physician self-referral
laws (commonly referred to as the "Stark Law"), which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial relationship, (iv)
the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claims for certain healthcare services and (v) federal and state
privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1997, which provide for the privacy and security of personal health
information. Violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws carry civil, criminal and administrative sanctions, including punitive sanctions, monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and
Medicaid reimbursement and potential exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state healthcare programs. These laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can
also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam
or "whistleblower" actions. Many of our operators and tenants are subject to these laws, and some of them may in the future become the subject of governmental enforcement actions if they fail to
comply with applicable laws. A violation of any of these federal and state fraud and abuse laws and regulations could negatively impact our tenants' and operators' liquidity, financial condition and
results of operations, which could negatively impact their ability to make payments under their agreements with us, or otherwise comply with the terms of such agreements. 



 Reimbursement  



        Sources of revenue for many of our tenants and operators include, among other sources, governmental healthcare programs, such as the
federal Medicare program and state Medicaid programs, and non-governmental payors, such as insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations. As federal and state governments focus on healthcare
reform initiatives, and as many 

14




 


<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

states
face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by
some of our tenants and operators. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants or operators to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue
to participate in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 



 Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need  



        Certain healthcare facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and
inspection laws and regulations. Many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a "certificate of need," which requires prior approval for the construction, expansion and closure of
certain healthcare facilities. Further, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials and operate equipment. Failure to comply with
any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or
closure of the facility. The approval process related to state certificate of need laws may impact some of our tenants' and operators' abilities to expand or change their businesses. Failure to comply
with these laws or to obtain required certificates of need may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of the tenants and operators of properties owned by or mortgaged to us,
and therefore may adversely impact us. 



 Life Science Facilities  



        While certain of our life science tenants include some well-established companies, other such tenants are less established and, in some
cases, may not yet have a product approved by the Food and Drug Administration or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. Creating a new pharmaceutical product requires significant
investments of time and money, in part, because of the extensive regulation of the healthcare industry; it also entails considerable risk of failure in demonstrating that the product is safe and
effective and in gaining regulatory approval and market acceptance. Further, even after a life science company has gained regulatory approval to market a product, the product still presents regulatory
risks. Such risks may include, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, changes in reimbursement policies for the product, competition from new products, litigation over the
validity or infringement of the underlying intellectual property, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the product. All these factors may have an adverse effect on the operations and
financial condition of our life science tenants and therefore may adversely impact us. 



 Senior Housing Entrance Fee Communities  



        Certain of the senior housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee communities. Generally, an entrance
fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form of long-term benefit. Some of the entrance fee communities are subject to
significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility's financial condition, establishment and monitoring of
reserve requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the residents, restrictions on change
of ownership and similar matters. Such oversight and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of our tenants
and operators and therefore may adversely impact us. 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA")  



        Our properties must comply with the ADA and any similar state or local laws to the extent that such properties are "public
accommodations" as defined in those statutes. The ADA may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily
achievable. To date, we have not received any notices of noncompliance with the ADA that have caused us to incur substantial capital expenditures to address ADA concerns. Should barriers to access by
persons with disabilities be discovered at any of our properties, we may be directly or indirectly responsible for additional costs that may be required to make facilities ADA-compliant. Noncompliance
with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations pursuant to the ADA is an ongoing one, and we
continue to assess our properties and make modifications as appropriate in this respect. 



 Environmental Matters  



        A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect healthcare
facility operations. These complex federal and state statutes, and their enforcement, involve myriad regulations, many of which involve strict liability on the part of the potential offender. Some of
these federal and state statutes may directly impact us. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a secured lender, such as
us, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to
hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required remediation, removal, fines or personal or property
damages and the owner's or secured lender's liability therefore could exceed or impair the value of the property, and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of such
substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as
collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenues. For a description of the risks associated with environmental matters, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this report.  


<A
NAME="df17901_item_1a._risk_factors"> 
    ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors        

        Before deciding whether to invest in HCP, you should carefully consider the risks described below as well as
the risks described elsewhere in this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be
additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider not likely to have a significant impact on us. All of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

        As
the owner of healthcare and other real estate facilities, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Certain of these risks and uncertainties are associated directly with
the business of owning and leasing real estate generally, but others are associated with our specific business model or other attributes of HCP. For example, as described elsewhere in this report,
most of our properties are operated by and/or leased to third parties. Accordingly, adverse developments with respect to these third parties may materially adversely affect us. In addition, we operate
in a manner intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT, which involves the application of highly technical and complex laws and regulations. We believe that the risks facing our company generally fall
into the following four categories: 



•Risks related to HCP   
•Risks related to our operators and tenants 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•Risks related to tax matters including REIT-related risks   
•Risks related to our organizational structure 


 Risks Related to HCP  

 The recent market disruptions may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  


        The global financial markets are currently undergoing pervasive and fundamental disruptions. The continuation or intensification of any
such volatility may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Among other things, the capital markets have recently experienced extreme pricing volatility,
dislocations and liquidity disruptions, all of which have exerted downward pressure on stock prices, widened credit spreads on prospective debt financing and led to unprecedented declines in the
market values of U.S. and foreign stock exchanges. The recent dislocations in the debt markets have reduced the amount of capital that is available to finance real estate, which, in turn, has led to
reduced property values and caused an overall slowdown of real estate transaction activity, all of which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 


        The
current U.S. and global economic and financial crisis has also severely strained the credit markets resulting in the bankruptcies and mergers of large financial institutions and
significant investment in and control by government bodies of financial institutions to avoid further illiquidity and bank failures. At times, certain segments of the credit market have frozen with
banks no longer willing to make loans. The continuation or intensification of current levels of market disruption and volatility could impact our ability to obtain new financing or refinance our
existing debt as it becomes due. 

        The
recent volatility may also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of our investments and those of our joint ventures, that could result
in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated
goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings. Additionally, certain fees we generate from our joint ventures are dependent upon the value of the investments
held by such joint ventures or the level of contributions we make to the property fund. If property values or our level of contributions decrease, certain fees generated by our joint ventures may also
decrease. 

 We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs and if our access to such capital is limited or on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet
commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business.  

        In order to qualify as a REIT under the Code and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we are generally required, among other things,
to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our "real estate investment trust taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and net capital gains). For
distributions with respect to the taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2009, recent Internal Revenue Service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of this requirement through the
distribution of shares of HCP, Inc. common stock, if certain conditions are met. We may not be able to fund, from cash retained from operations, all future capital needs, including capital needs in
connection with acquisitions and development activities. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments
needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. As a result, we rely on external sources of capital, including debt and equity financing, to fulfill our capital
requirements. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including: 



•further weakening of the U.S. and global economies and the possibility of a prolonged recession; 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost;  
•the market price of the shares of our equity securities;   
•the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions;  
•the ratings of our debt and preferred securities;   
•our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility;   
•financial deterioration of our lenders that might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their
willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all;   
•the stability in the market value of our properties;   
•the value of our mezzanine loans and other debt investments;   
•the financial performance of our operators, tenants and borrowers;   
•issues facing the healthcare industry, including regulations and government reimbursement policies;  
•changes in rules or practices governing our financial and SEC reporting; and   
•civil disturbances, natural disasters or acts of war. 


 Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and preferred stock financing on favorable terms, if at all, and significantly
reduce the market price of our securities, including our common stock.  

        We currently have a credit rating of Baa3 (stable) from Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's"), BBB (stable) from Standard & Poor's
Ratings Service ("S&P") and BBB (positive) from Fitch Ratings ("Fitch") on our senior unsecured debt securities, and Ba1 (stable) from Moody's, BB+ (stable) from S&P and BBB- (positive) from Fitch on
our preferred equity securities. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred equity securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall
financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the
terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would
likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings
would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. Because we depend on external sources of capital to fund
our acquisition and development activities, adverse changes to our credit ratings could negatively impact our acquisition and development activities, future growth opportunities, financial condition
and the market price of our securities. 

 Our level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect us in many ways, including reducing funds available for other business purposes and reducing our operational
flexibility.  

        Our indebtedness as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $5.9 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including
in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. Any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and preferred
equity securities and require a substantial portion of our cash 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



flow
to make interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. Greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make
capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. Increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us
more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt
service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. Further,
if we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or
transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of our properties could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations,
financial condition and ability to pay dividends on our common and preferred equity securities. 

 Covenants in our existing and future credit agreements and other debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach or a default could materially
adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

        The terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness, including additional credit agreements or amendments we may enter into and
other indebtedness we may incur in the future, require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios
and tangible net worth requirements. Our continued ability to incur indebtedness and operate in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational
flexibility. For example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the
applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. Breaches of such covenants may result in defaults under certain mortgages on our properties, even if we satisfy our payment
obligations to the respective lender. Defaults under the mortgages, including certain tenant or operator bankruptcies and other lease defaults may result in cross-defaults under and acceleration of
certain of our other indebtedness. Covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations
and financial condition. 

 An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on existing variable rate debt and new debt, and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing
debt, sell assets and limit our acquisition and development activities.  

        At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $892 million of variable interest rate indebtedness, which constitutes 15% of our overall
indebtedness. This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 2.57% per annum. We may incur more variable interest rate indebtedness in the future. If interest rates
increase, so will our interest costs for our existing variable interest rate debt and any new debt. This increased cost could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, decrease our
ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, decrease our ability to make distributions to our security holders and make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly.
Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced
indebtedness. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in
response to changes in economic or other conditions. At December 31, 2008, our exposure to variable rate indebtedness is mitigated by $1.1 billion of variable rate investments. 

19






<A
NAME="page_di17901_1_20"> 



































  
Table of Contents 

 Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  

        From time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. See "Legal Proceedings" in
Part I, Item 3 in this report for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of actions of our operators
and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their
respective businesses. See "Risks Related to Our Operators and Tenants—Our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and rising liability and insurance costs
that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments." An unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and operations. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance
that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental
matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. 

 A small number of operators and tenants, some of whom are experiencing significant legal, financial and regulatory difficulties, account for a large percentage of our
revenues.  

        During the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 37% of our portfolio, based on our total revenues, was operated or leased by
five companies, consisting of Sunrise (15%), HCA (7%), Brookdale (7%), Genentech (4%) and Tenet (4%). In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2008, we earned interest of $84 million and $24
million in connection with mezzanine loans to HCR ManorCare and marketable debt securities issued by HCA, respectively. Certain of these companies are experiencing significant legal, financial and
regulatory difficulties. Among other things, Sunrise has disclosed that it does not anticipate being in compliance with certain financial covenants in its bank credit facility as of March 31, 2009,
which could result in an acceleration of the debt under that facility. In addition, several of these major operators and tenants have significant debt and lease obligations and have been affected by
the recent economic downturn, which has led to, in some instances, a precipitous decline in their stock price. The failure or inability of any of these operators or tenants to meet their obligations
to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have other material
adverse effects. See "Risks Related to Our Operators and Tenants—The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or
tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition." for additional information on the risks we face from a failure of one or
more of our operators or tenants. 

 We have investments in mezzanine loans, which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans secured by the underlying real estate.  

        At December 31, 2008, we had mezzanine loan investments with a carrying value of $918 million. Our mezzanine loans generally take the
form of subordinated loans secured by a pledge of ownership interests in either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that owns, directly or through other
entities, the interest in the entities owning the properties. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage loans secured by income producing real property
because the investment may have a lesser likelihood of being repaid in full as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its
ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to fully repay our mezzanine loans. If a borrower
defaults on our mezzanine loans or debt senior to our loans, or in the event of a borrower 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



bankruptcy,
our mezzanine loans will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid and consistent with bankruptcy rules. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition,
mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. If our mezzanine loans are
not
repaid, or are only partially repaid, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 


 We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be
unable to successfully operate or occupy the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.  

        If an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our
interest by acquiring title to the collateral. In some cases, as noted above, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property
and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity. In addition, if we acquire real estate as a result of a foreclosure, we may be required to make substantial improvements or
repairs in order to maximize the facility's investment potential. Operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our
exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. Foreclosure-related costs, high "loan-to-value" ratios or
declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure. Even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral
securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we are unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to fully
recover our investment. 

 Credit enhancements to our leases may terminate or be inadequate, or the provider of a credit enhancement may be unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us, any of
which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

        Some of our leases have credit enhancement provisions in the form of guarantees or security deposits, for minimum rent payments payable
to us. These credit enhancement provisions may terminate at either a specific time during the lease term or once the property satisfies defined operating hurdles like net operating income. These
provisions may also have limits on the overall amount of the credit enhancement. After the termination of a credit enhancement, or in the event that the maximum limit of a credit enhancement is
reached, we may only look to the tenant or operator to make lease payments. Some of our tenants are thinly capitalized entities that rely on the results of operations generated by the properties to
fund rent obligations under their lease. In the event that a credit enhancement has expired or the maximum limit has been reached, or in the event that a provider of a credit enhancement is unable to
meet its payment obligations, our results of operations and cash available for distribution could be materially adversely affected if our properties are unable to generate sufficient funds from
operations to meet minimum rent payments and the tenants or operators do not otherwise have the resources to make those rent payments. 


 Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities.  

        Transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals, including change of
ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and Medicare and Medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real
estate. The replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the
replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. If we are 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



unable
to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which might expose us to successor liability or require us to indemnify
subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses, all of which may adversely affect our revenues and operations. 

 We may not be able to sell properties when we desire because real estate investments are relatively illiquid.  


        Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, some of our properties serve as collateral for our secured debt
obligations and cannot be readily sold. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. This inability to respond to changes in the performance of
our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and in particular our ability to service our debt and pay dividends on our common and preferred
stock. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: 



•adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions;   
•changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing;   
•leases or management agreements which are not renewed or are renewed at lower payment amounts at expiration;  
•the exercise of purchase options by operators or tenants resulting in a reduction of our revenues;  
•changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies, zoning and other ordinances;   
•the costs of complying with existing and new laws and regulations;   
•the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures and the need to make expenditures due to
changes in governmental regulations, including the ADA;   
•environmental hazards created by prior owners or occupants, existing operators or tenants, borrowers or other persons for
which we may be liable;   
•changes in operating expenses; and   
•acts of terrorism, civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in
uninsured and underinsured losses. 


We
cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to
us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or portfolio of properties. In addition, there are provisions under the federal
income tax laws
applicable to REITs that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse
changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 Real estate is a competitive business and this competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare and other facilities, to grow our
operations through these activities or to successfully reinvest proceeds.  

        We operate in a highly competitive industry. Part of our business strategy is growing through acquisitions, which requires us to
identify suitable candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. However, when we attempt to develop, finance or acquire properties, we face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private
equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom have greater resources 

22




 


<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



and
lower costs of capital than us. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals. Among other things,
from time to time, we have cash proceeds available to us from securities offerings, asset sales, joint venture or other activities, in which competition can negatively affect our ability to reinvest
these proceeds on a timely basis. If we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or reinvest proceeds on
a timely basis, or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 


 Because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare facilities, we may be required to incur substantial development and renovation costs to make certain
of our properties suitable for other operators and tenants, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

        Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related
uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times
tenant-specific. A new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. If a current operator
or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. Also, if the property needs
to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. These
expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 We face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of
development activities once undertaken, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  


        Large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks
that: 



•a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or
failure to recover expenses already incurred;   
•the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and
higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable;   
•construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all;   
•the project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service
expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including: natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and  
•occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the
property profitable. 


        Properties
developed or acquired for development likely generate little or no cash flow from the date of acquisition through the date of completion of development. In addition, new
development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, may require a substantial portion of our management's time and attention. 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        These
risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and thus our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to
stockholders. 

 Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

        We intend to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of
these structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that: 



•we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority,
which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes;   
•our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including
the timing, terms and strategies for any investments;   
•our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to
fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and  
•our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. 


 From time to time, we acquire other companies and need to integrate them into our existing business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired
companies or they fail to perform as expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.  

        Acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of the operations
of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We cannot assure you that we will
be able to integrate the operations of the companies that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, without encountering difficulties. Potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include
the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of
unexpected liabilities. Estimated cost savings in connection with acquisitions are typically projected to come from various areas that our management identifies through the due diligence and
integration planning process; yet, our target companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly
optimistic estimates of future revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or
market position. If we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we might not achieve
the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and
stock price.  

        Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over
financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



such
control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements
because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or
overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we
fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business,
results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price. 


 Loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us.  

        We are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. Although our chief executive officer has an employment agreement with us, we
cannot assure you that he will remain employed with us. The loss or limited availability of the services of our chief executive officer or any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit
and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and be negatively perceived in the capital markets. 


 We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property or decrease anticipated
future revenues.  

        We maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are
adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm and flood and may be
subject to other losses. In particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. While we purchase insurance for earthquake, windstorm and flood
that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance will fully cover such losses. These losses can
decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. The insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile
and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. In addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not
believe it is economically feasible to do so. 

 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments.  


        Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be
required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation
and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages
and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe
are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount
of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may
adversely affect our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. As the owner of a site, we may also be liable under common law to third parties for 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



damages
and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. 

 Risks Related to Our Operators and Tenants  

 The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations
and financial condition.  

        We lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into
long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. Although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide
us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a
party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. For example, we cannot evict
a tenant or operator solely
because of its bankruptcy filing. A debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding. If a debtor were to reject
its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which may be substantially less than the
remaining rent actually owed under the lease. In addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may affect our compliance with
certain covenants contained in the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. Moreover, certain tenant or operator bankruptcies or other lease defaults may result in
defaults under the mortgages on the relevant properties and cross-defaults under and acceleration of our other indebtedness. Although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the
applicable agreements if a default as described above occurs, such default may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the availability of funding or
other material adverse consequences. 

        Many
of our operating leases also contain non-contingent rent escalators for which we recognize income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. This method
results in rental income in the early years of a lease being higher than actual cash received, creating a straight-line rent receivable asset included in the caption "Other assets, net" on
our consolidated balance sheets. At some point during the lease, depending on its terms, the cash rent payments eventually exceed the straight-line rent which results in the
straight-line rent receivable asset decreasing to zero over the remainder of the lease term. We assess the collectibility of the straight-line rent that is expected to be
collected in a future period, and, depending on circumstances, we may provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion, up to its full
value, that we estimate may not be recoverable. In addition, upon acquisition of a leased property that we account for as an operating lease, we may record lease-related intangible assets,
to the extent the purchase price for the asset exceeds its fair market value. The balance of straight-line rent receivable at December 31, 2008, net of allowances was $112 million.
We had approximately $465 million of lease-related intangible assets, net of amortization, and $231 million of lease-related intangible liabilities, net of
amortization, associated with our operating leases at December 31, 2008. To the extent any of the operators or tenants for our properties, for the reasons discussed above, become unable to pay
amounts due, we may be required to write down the straight-line rents receivable or lease intangibles or may impair the related carrying value of leased properties. 


 The current U.S. housing and strained credit markets may adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to increase or maintain occupancy levels at, and rental income
from, our senior housing facilities.  

        Our tenants and operators may have relatively flat or declining occupancy levels in the near-term due to falling home prices, declining
incomes, stagnant home sales and other economic factors. Seniors 

26




 


<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



may
choose to postpone their plans to move into senior housing facilities rather than sell their homes at a loss, or for a profit below their expectations. Moreover, tightening lending standards and
the strained credit market have made it more difficult for potential buyers to obtain mortgage financing, all of which have contributed to the declining home sales. In addition, the senior housing
segment may experience a decline in occupancy associated with private pay residents choosing to move out of the facilities to be cared for at home by relatives due to the weakening economy. A material
decline in our tenants' and operators' occupancy levels and revenues may make it more difficult for them to meet their financial obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 Operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, licensing and certification
requirements, fraud and abuse regulations or new legislative developments may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us.  

        Our operators and tenants are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that are subject to frequent and
substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. The ultimate
timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. These changes may have a dramatic effect on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by both
government and other third-party payors. The failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could adversely affect their ability to meet
their financial and contractual obligations to us. Regulations that affect our operators and tenants include the following: 



•Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations.  There are various
extremely complex federal and state laws and regulations governing healthcare providers' relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraudulent and abusive practices by such providers. These laws
include (i) federal and state false claims acts, which, among other things, prohibit providers from filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid or
other federal or state healthcare programs, (ii) federal and state anti-kickback and fee-splitting statutes, including the Medicare and Medicaid
anti-kickback statute, which prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services, (iii) federal and state
physician self-referral laws, including the Stark Law, which generally prohibit referrals by physicians to entities with which the physician or an immediate family member has a financial
relationship, (iv) the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, the knowing presentation of a false or fraudulent claims for certain healthcare services and
(v) federal and state privacy laws, including the privacy and security rules contained in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1997, which provide for the privacy and
security of personal health information. 




Furthermore,
violations of healthcare fraud and abuse laws can carry substantial civil, criminal, or administrative sanctions, including potential exclusion or debarment from Medicare, Medicaid or
other federal or state health care programs. These laws are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things,
federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or "whistleblower" actions.  



•Medicare and Medicaid.  During 2008, our skilled nursing
segment accounted for approximately 4% of our revenues. A portion of our skilled nursing operators' revenues is derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, primarily
Medicare and Medicaid, and are consequently subject to the potential adverse effects of decreased reimbursement rates in these programs. As federal and state governments focus on healthcare reform
initiatives, and as many 

27




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents




states
face significant budget deficits, efforts to reduce costs by these payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by
some of our tenants and operators. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants or operators to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue
to participate in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs could cause the revenues of our operators and
borrowers to decline, potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us causing the value of our affected properties or investments to decline. 






State
licensing and Medicare and Medicaid laws also require operators of nursing homes and ALFs to comply with extensive standards governing operations. Federal and state agencies administering those
laws regularly inspect such facilities and investigate complaints. Our operators, borrowers and their managers receive notices of potential sanctions and remedies from time to time, and such sanctions
have been imposed from time to time on facilities operated by them. If they are unable to cure deficiencies, sanctions may be imposed that reduce our operators' and borrowers' revenues or cause them
to cease operations, thereby potentially jeopardizing their ability to meet their obligations to us.  



•Licensing and Certification.  Certain healthcare
facilities in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, certification, and inspection laws and regulations. These facilities are audited periodically by federal,
state, and local authorities to confirm compliance. Further, various licenses and permits are required to dispense narcotics, operate pharmacies, handle radioactive materials, and operate equipment.
Finally, many states require certain healthcare providers to obtain a "certificate of need" prior to the construction, expansion, or closure of certain healthcare facilities. Our skilled nursing
facilities in particular tend to require certificates of need prior to the addition or construction of new beds, the addition of services, or certain capital expenditures. Some of our facilities may
be unable to satisfy current and future certificate of need requirements and may for this reason be unable to continue operating in the future. In such event, our revenues from those facilities could
be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time or permanently. Furthermore, failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition
of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility.   
•Legislative and Regulatory Developments.  Each year,
legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures that would affect major changes in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. We cannot
accurately predict whether any proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. 


 Increased competition as well as increased operating costs have resulted in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may affect their ability to meet
their financial and other contractual obligations to us.  

        The healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. The occupancy levels at, and rental income
from, our facilities is dependent on the ability of our operators and tenants to compete with entities that have substantial capital resources. These entities compete with other operators and tenants
on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for
healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and
state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of our tenants and operators. Our operators and tenants also 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



compete
with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement
communities and convalescent centers. Such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed
buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. We cannot be certain that the operators and tenants
of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Further, many competing companies may have resources and
attributes that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. Thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract
residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability meet their financial and other contractual obligation to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and
increasing our collection and dispute costs. 

 Our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses.  

        Our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that
covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. Some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur,
we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless
remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators. However, we cannot assure
you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. 

 Our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and rising liability and insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments.  

        In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought
litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The
effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition,
their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be very significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. Cost increases could cause our
operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our
collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities from our operators and tenants, our revenues from those facilities could be reduced or
eliminated for an extended period of time. In addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our
operators or tenants, which may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. 

 Our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us and,
consequently, materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  


        Life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique
risks, as follows: 



•some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their
products and technologies. If private investors, the government or other 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents




sources
of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail.  



•the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal,
state and foreign regulatory approvals. The approval process is typically long, expensive and uncertain. Even if our tenants have sufficient funds to seek approvals, one or all of their products may
fail to obtain the required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, some tenants may only have a small number of products under development. If one product fails to receive the
required approvals at any stage of development, it could significantly adversely affect our tenant's entire business and its ability to make payments to us.   
•even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product still presents regulatory
and liability risks. Such risks may include, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection for the
product. These factors may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of our life science tenants and therefore may adversely impact us.   
•our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform efforts and the reimbursement policies
of government or private healthcare payors.   
•our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws.
Failure to do so could jeopardize their ability to profit from their efforts and to protect their products from competition. 


        We
cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. If our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to
us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 Tax and REIT-Related Risks  

 Loss of HCP, Inc.'s tax status as a REIT would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences to us.  

        HCP, Inc. currently operates and has operated commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1985 in a manner that
is intended to allow it to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code. In addition, as described below, we own the stock of HCP Life Science REIT which elected to be
treated as a REIT commencing with its initial taxable year ended December 31, 2007. 

        Qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The
determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect the ability of HCP, Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT to qualify as REITs. If
HCP Life Science REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, HCP, Inc. also would fail to qualify as a REIT unless HCP, Inc. (or HCP Life Science REIT) could make use of
certain relief provisions provided under the Code. To qualify as REITs, HCP, Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT must each satisfy a number of organizational, operational, stockholder
ownership, dividend distribution, asset, income and other requirements. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of HCP, Inc.'s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying
sources, and HCP, Inc. must make distributions to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. In addition, new legislation,
treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors if such future events affected HCP, Inc.'s ability to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes.
Although we believe that HCP, Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can give no assurance that HCP, Inc. or HCP Life
Science REIT have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. 

30






<A
NAME="page_dm17901_1_31"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

        If HCP, Inc. loses its REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal
and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. If HCP, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT: 



•it would not be allowed an income tax deduction for dividends distributed to stockholders and would be subject to federal
and state income tax at regular corporate rates or alternative minimum tax rates;   
•it could also be subject to increased local income taxes; and   
•unless HCP, Inc. is entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect to be subject to tax as a
REIT for four taxable years following the year for which it was disqualified. 


        In
addition, if HCP, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT, it would not be required to make distributions to stockholders; however, all distributions to stockholders would be subject
to tax as qualifying corporate dividends to the extent of HCP, Inc.'s current and accumulated earnings and profits. 

        As
a result of all these factors, HCP, Inc.'s failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially adversely
affect the value of our common stock. 

 Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction.  


        From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. Under the Code, any gain resulting from transfers of
properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since
we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. However, whether property is
held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain
transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Service were
to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain from the prohibited transaction.
In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. 

 To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions.  

        To qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our "real estate investment trust taxable
income" (computed without regard to our dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain). If we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income in any year, we will be subject to regular
corporate income taxes. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary
income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. For distributions with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2009, recent
Internal Revenue Service guidance allows us to satisfy up to 90% of these requirements through the distribution of shares of HCP, Inc. common stock, if certain conditions are met. To maintain
our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the
then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of
cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



purposes,
or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt principal payments. 

 As a result of the acquisition of SEUSA, HCP Life Science REIT may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from SEUSA.  


        HCP Life Science REIT is the successor to the tax attributes, including tax basis, and earnings and profits, if any, of SEUSA.
If HCP Life Science REIT recognizes gain on the disposition of any properties formerly owned by SEUSA during the ten-year period beginning on the date on which it acquired the
SEUSA stock, it will be required to pay tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate on such gain to the extent of the excess of (a) the fair market value of the asset over (b) its adjusted
basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the date on which it acquired the SEUSA stock. Any taxes paid by HCP Life Science REIT would reduce the amount available for distribution by
HCP Life Science REIT to us. 

 As a result of the CRP merger and the CRC merger, we may have inherited tax liabilities and attributes from CRP and CRC.  

        In connection with the CRP merger, CRP's REIT counsel rendered an opinion to us, dated as of the closing date of the merger,
substantially to the effect that on the basis of the facts, representations and assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinions, CRP qualified as a REIT under the Code for the taxable years
ending December 31, 1999 through the closing date of the merger. If, however, contrary to the opinion of CRP's REIT counsel, CRP failed to qualify as a REIT for any of its taxable years, it
would be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Because the CRP merger was treated for income tax
purposes as if CRP sold all of its assets in a taxable transaction to HCP, Inc., if CRP did not qualify as a REIT for the taxable year of the merger, it would be subject to tax on the excess of
the fair market value of its assets over their adjusted tax basis. As a successor in interest to CRP, HCP, Inc. would be required to pay this tax. 

        As
a result of the CRC merger, HCP, Inc. succeeded to the assets and the liabilities of CRC, including any liabilities for unpaid taxes and any tax liabilities created in
connection with the CRC merger. At the closing of the CRC merger, we received an opinion of our counsel substantially to the effect that on the basis of the facts, representations and
assumptions set forth or referred to in such opinions, for federal income tax purposes the CRC merger qualified as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. If,
however, contrary to the opinion of our counsel, the CRC merger did not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code, the CRC merger would have been
treated as a sale of CRC's assets to HCP, Inc. in a taxable transaction, and CRC would have recognized taxable gain. In such a case, as CRC's successor-in-interest,
HCP, Inc. would be required to pay the tax on any such gain. 

 As a result of the CRC merger and the acquisition of SEUSA, HCP, Inc. and/or our subsidiary, HCP Life Science REIT, may be required to distribute
earnings and profits.  

        HCP, Inc. succeeded to the tax attributes, including the earnings and profits of CRC (assuming the CRC merger qualified
as reorganizations under the Code). Similarly, HCP Life Science REIT succeeded to the tax attributes, including the earnings and profits of SEUSA. To qualify as a REIT, HCP, Inc. and
HCP Life Science REIT must have distributed any non-REIT earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which each of these transactions occurred. Any adjustments to the
income of CRC or SEUSA for taxable years ending on or before the closing date of the applicable transactions, including as a result of an examination of the tax returns of either company by the
Internal Revenue Service, could affect the calculation of such company's earnings and profits. If the Internal Revenue Service were to determine that HCP, Inc. or HCP Life Science REIT
acquired 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents



non-REIT
earnings and profits from one or more of these predecessor entities that HCP, Inc. or HCP Life Science REIT failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year
in which the applicable transaction occurred, HCP, Inc. and HCP Life Science REIT could avoid disqualification as a REIT by paying a "deficiency dividend." Under these procedures,
HCP, Inc. or HCP Life Science REIT generally would be required to distribute any such non-REIT earnings and profits to its respective stockholders within 90 days of the
determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the Internal Revenue Service. Such a distribution would be in addition to the distribution of REIT taxable income necessary to
satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and may require that HCP, Inc. or HCP Life Science REIT, as applicable, borrow funds to make the distribution even if the
then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings. In addition, payment of the statutory interest charge could materially adversely affect the cash flow of the applicable
REIT. 

 Risks Related to our Organizational Structure  

 Our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock.  


        Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock
that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT. Under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or
entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common or preferred stock. 

        Additionally,
our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the company's voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. Our board of directors, in its
sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. The ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price
for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 

 Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control transaction, even if the transaction involves a premium
price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests.  

        Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions
that involve an actual or threatened change in control, even if these transactions involve a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their
best interests. These provisions include the following: 



•Removal of Directors.  Subject to the rights of one or more
classes or series of preferred stock to elect one or more directors, our charter provides that a director may only be removed by the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least
two-thirds of the outstanding shares or by a unanimous vote of all other members of the board of directors.   
•Stockholder Requested Special Meetings.  Our bylaws only
permit our stockholders to call a special meeting upon the written request of the stockholders holding, in the aggregate, not less than 50% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the business
proposed to be transacted at such meeting.   
•Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and
Proposals.  Our bylaws do not permit stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before,
any meeting of stockholders unless we are notified in a timely manner, in writing, prior to the meeting.   
•Preferred Stock.  Under our charter, our board of directors
has authority to issue preferred stock from time to time in one or more series and to establish the terms, preferences and rights of any such series of preferred stock, all without the approval of our
stockholders. 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•Duties of Directors with Respect to Unsolicited
Takeovers.  Maryland law provides protection for Maryland corporations against unsolicited takeovers by limiting, among other things, the
duties of the directors in unsolicited takeover situations. The duties of directors of Maryland corporations do not require them to (a) accept, recommend or respond to any proposal by a person
seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (b) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act or the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, or (c) act or fail to
act solely because of the effect that the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be
offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, an act of a director of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not
subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation
satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law.   
•Unsolicited Takeovers.  Under Maryland law, a Maryland
corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and at least three independent directors may elect to be subject to certain statutory
provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers which, among other things, would automatically classify the board of directors into three classes with staggered terms of three years each and vest in the
board of directors the exclusive right to determine the number of directors and the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board of
directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. These statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers also provide that any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold
office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, rather than the next annual meeting of directors as would otherwise be the case, and until the
director's successor is elected and qualified. 




An
election to be subject to any or all of the foregoing statutory provisions may be made in our charter or bylaws, or by resolution of our board of directors without stockholder approval. Any such
statutory provision to which we elect to be subject will apply even if other provisions of Maryland law or our charter or bylaws provide to the contrary. Neither our charter nor our bylaws provides
that we are
subject to any of the foregoing statutory provisions relating to unsolicited takeovers. However, our board of directors could adopt a resolution, without stockholder approval, to elect to become
subject to some or all of these statutory provisions. 

If
we made an election to be subject to such statutory provisions and our board of directors was divided into three classes with staggered terms of office of three years each, the classification and
staggered terms of office of our directors would make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors since at least two annual meetings of stockholders, instead of one,
generally would be required to effect a change in the majority of our board of directors.  



•Maryland Business Combination Act.  The Maryland Business
Combination Act provides that, unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10% or more of its assets, issuances of shares of
stock and other specified transactions, with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder
became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the
voting power of the outstanding stock of a Maryland corporation. Unless our board of directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the
future, the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. In addition to the restrictions on business combinations provided under Maryland
law, our charter also contains restrictions on business 

34




 


<A
HREF="#bg17901a_main_toc">Table of Contents




combinations.
Our charter requires that, except in some circumstances, "business combinations" between us and a "related person," including a beneficial holder of 10% or more of our outstanding voting
stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our outstanding voting shares.  



•Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act.  Maryland law
provides that "control shares" of a corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" shall have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes
eligible to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. "Control shares" means shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock previously acquired by the
acquiror, would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of the voting power: one-tenth or more but less than
one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of control shares, subject
to certain exceptions. 




If
voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholder's meeting, then subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or
all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholder's meeting and the acquiror becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock
entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. If any of our shares are control shares acquired in a control share acquisition, they will be subject to the Maryland Control
Share Acquisition Act unless our bylaws are amended in the future to exempt the acquisition of control shares generally or with respect to certain transactions. 




 Our issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and reduce the market
price for our shares.  

        As of December 31, 2008, we had 253.6 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We cannot predict the
effect, if any, that potential future sales of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities, or the availability of our securities for future sale, will have on the market price of our
outstanding securities, including our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for,
common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could reduce the market price of our common stock. The sales of any such securities could also dilute the interests of
existing common stockholders and may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Additionally, we maintain equity incentive plans for our employees. We have historically made grants of
stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to our employees under such plans, and we expect to continue to do so. As of December 31, 2008, there were options to purchase
approximately 5.1 million shares of our common stock outstanding of which 2.0 million shares are exercisable, approximately 380,000 unvested shares of restricted stock issued and
outstanding and approximately 864,000 unvested restricted stock units issued and outstanding under our equity incentive plans.  

<A
NAME="dm17901_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B