ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors        

        The section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

        As
set forth below, we believe that the risks facing our company generally fall into the following categories:



•Risks related to our business; and 
•Risks related to tax matters, including REIT-related risks. 


 Risks Related to Our Business  

 Volatility, disruption or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real
estate and development activities.  

        The global financial markets have experienced pervasive and fundamental disruptions. While these conditions have stabilized since the
first quarter of 2009 and the capital markets continue to show signs of improvement, the strength and sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain. Additional levels of market disruption,
volatility or uncertainty could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development
activities. 

12




 


<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Market
volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value
of our properties and those of our joint ventures. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to
recognize impairment charges in earnings. 

 We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and limitations on our access to such capital could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to
meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business.  

        We may not be able to fund all future capital needs from cash retained from operations. If we are unable to obtain enough internal
capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. If we cannot access these external sources of capital, we may not
be able to make the investments needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our access to capital
depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to:



•general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost;  
•the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities;  
•the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions;  
•our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; 
•the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their
willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; 
•the stability of the market value of our properties; 
•the financial performance and general market perception of our operators, tenants and borrowers;  
•changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the United States of
its obligations; and 
•issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government
reimbursement policies. 


        If
our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, refinance our debt obligations, fund
dividend payments, acquire properties and development activities. 

 Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market
price of our securities, including our common stock.  

        The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall
financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can access, as well as the
terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event that our current credit ratings deteriorate, we would
likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain 

13




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

additional
financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our
current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. 

 Our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations.  

        Our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2013 was approximately $8.7 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness
in the future, including in connection with the development or acquisition of assets, which may be substantial. Any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of
our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments due on our indebtedness. Greater demands on our
cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy.
Increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive
disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or
refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. 

 Covenants related to our indebtedness limit our operational flexibility, and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition.  

        Our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and secured debt and other indebtedness that we may incur in the future,
require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining certain levels of debt service coverage and leverage ratio, tangible net worth
requirements and maintaining REIT status. Our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which
limit our operational flexibility. For example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further
encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. Breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and
cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. Additionally, defaults under the leases or operating agreements related to
mortgaged properties, including defaults associated with the bankruptcy of the applicable tenant or operator, may result in a default under the underlying mortgage and cross-defaults under certain of
our other indebtedness. Covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition. 

 An increase in interest rates could increase interest cost on new debt, and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit
our acquisition, investment and development activities.  

        If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. This increased cost could make the financing of any
acquisition and development activity more costly. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing
and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our
ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. 

        We
manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk by accessing debt with staggered maturities and through the use of derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swap
agreements. However, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Swap agreements involve risk, including that counterparties may fail
to honor their 

14




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

obligations
under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be
limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than would otherwise be the case. Failure to hedge
effectively against interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

 We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  

        We continue to pursue growth opportunities in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the denominated currency. The
ownership of investments located outside of the United States subjects us to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant change in the value
of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios, results of operations and
cash flow. 

        We
may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes through the use of derivative contracts or other methods. For example, we have a
£137 million GBP investment ($227 million at December 31, 2013) and maintain a £137 million unsecured GBP term loan as a natural hedge.
Additionally, we executed a currency swap contract to hedge the risk related to a portion of the forecasted interest receipts on this investment. However, no amount of hedging activity can fully
insulate us from the risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the failure to hedge effectively against foreign currency exchange rate risk, if we choose to engage in such
activities, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

 We depend on a limited number of operators and tenants that account for a large percentage of our revenues.  

        During the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 50% of our revenues were generated by our leasing or financial
arrangements with the following four companies: HCR ManorCare (28%); Emeritus (13%); Sunrise (5%); and Brookdale (4%). The failure, inability or unwillingness of these operators or tenants to meet
their obligations to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have
other material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 


        In
addition, any failure by these operators or tenants to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputation
and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These
operators and tenants generally have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective
businesses, and we cannot provide any assurance that they will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its indemnification obligations. 


 Economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas to which a greater percentage of our revenue is attributed could materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  

        For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 41% of our revenue was derived from properties located in California (21%),
Texas (11%) and Florida (9%). As a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting these regions, including downturns in the local 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

economies
or changes in local real estate conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, and changes in state-specific legislation, which could adversely affect our business and results of
operations. 

 The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations
and financial condition.  

        We lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into
long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. Although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide us the right
under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to
a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. For example, we cannot
evict a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. A debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy
proceeding. If a debtor were to reject its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which
may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. In addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations
may affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in our debt securities, credit facilities and the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. In addition,
under certain conditions, defaults under the underlying mortgages may result in cross-default under our other indebtedness. Although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the
applicable agreements in those circumstances, the bankruptcy of an applicable operator or tenant may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the
availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. In addition, many of our facilities are leased to healthcare providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly; evicting
such operators for failure to pay rent while the facility is occupied may be a difficult and slow process and may not be successful. 

 Our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses.  

        Our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that
covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. Certain losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we
could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless
remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators and believe the coverage
provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry. However, we cannot provide any assurances that we will continue to require the same level of insurance coverage of our
tenants and operators, or that such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost in the future. Also, we cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance
proceeds, will not occur in the future. 

 Our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs.  

        In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought
litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect
of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

addition,
their cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase or even not be available at a reasonable cost so long as the present healthcare litigation
environment continues. Cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance,
potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. In addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits
allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, for which claims such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against, but which may
require unanticipated expenditures on our part. 

 Operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, may cease to operate or
be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.  

        Certain of our operators and tenants are affected by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that are
subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing
law. See "Item 1—Business—Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement" above. For example, to the extent that any of our operators or tenants receive a significant
portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to:



•statutory and regulatory changes; 
•retroactive rate adjustments; 
•recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; 
•administrative rulings; 
•policy interpretations; 
•payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; 
•government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and  
•interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. 


        In
recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to healthcare providers due to budgetary pressures. Healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of
significant importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future legislative reforms may have on our operators' and
tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. The failure of any of our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements
and regulations could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. 

 Legislation to address federal government operations and Administration decisions affecting the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services could have a material adverse
effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.  

        Enactment of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014 and Congressional consideration of legislation pertaining to the federal debt
ceiling, the Affordable Care Act, tax reform, and entitlement programs, including reimbursement rates for physicians, could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial
condition or results of operations. In particular, funding for entitlement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid may result in increased costs and fees for programs such as 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

Medicare
Advantage Plans and reductions in reimbursements to providers; Congressional action related to the federal debt ceiling may have an impact on credit markets; tax reform may impact corporate
and individual tax rates as well as impact retirement plans. Additionally, amendments to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
2010 (collectively, the "Affordable Care Act"), implementation of the Affordable Care Act by the Administration, and decisions by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services could impact the
delivery of services and benefits under Medicare, Medicaid or Medicare Advantage Plans. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results of
operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on us. 


 Operators and tenants that fail to comply with federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations may cease to operate or be unable to
meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.  

        Certain of our operators and tenants are subject to extensive federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and
inspection laws, regulations and standards. Our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of
reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs
arising from an investigation or regulatory action. For example, certain of our properties may require a license, registration and/or certificate of need to operate. Failure of any operator or tenant
to obtain a license, registration or certificate of need, or loss of a required license, registration or certificate of need, would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such
operator or tenant. Additionally, failure of our operators and tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on facilities owned by or mortgaged to us,
and therefore may materially adversely impact us. See
"Item 1—Business—Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement—Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need" above. 


 Increased competition, as well as an inability to grow revenues as originally forecast, has resulted and may further result in lower net revenues for some of our operators
and tenants and may affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.  

        The healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. The occupancy levels at, and rental income
from, our facilities is dependent on our ability and the ability of our operators and tenants to maintain and increase such levels and income and to compete with entities that have substantial capital
resources. These entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price,
the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location and the size and demographics
of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the
properties and their tenants. Our operators and tenants also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at
home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. Such competition, which is due, in part, to historical over-development in some segments in which we invest,
has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease.
We cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Further,
many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our operators and tenants. Thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future
that could 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents


limit
their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us,
potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets, and increasing our collection and dispute costs. 

 Our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty.  

        Life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique
risks, as follows:



•some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their
products and technologies. If private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail;  
•the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal,
state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain; 
•even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present
significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection
for the product; 
•our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of
government or private healthcare payors; and 
•our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. 


        We
cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. If our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to
us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be
unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.  

        If an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our
interest by acquiring title to the collateral and thereafter making substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. In some cases, as noted above, the
collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in operating facilities and, accordingly, we may not have full
recourse to assets of that entity. Operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other
remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. Foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the facility
may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. Even if we are able to
successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all, or equity
interests that we are unable to immediately resell due to limitations under the securities laws, either of which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. 

19






<A
NAME="page_di71501_1_20">   









































Table of Contents 

 Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities.  

        Transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications,
including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and Medicare and Medicaid provider arrangements that are not required for transfers of other types of
commercial operations and other types of real estate. The replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency
necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. If we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms,
or at all, we may take possession of a facility, which might expose us to successor liability, require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses,
or spend substantial time and funds to adapt the facility to other uses, all of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

 Competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities to grow our investment portfolio.  

        We face significant competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds,
healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more
challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our
investment, acquisition and development activities. If we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices or if
we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 

 We may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other operators and tenants.  

        Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements
generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific. A new or replacement operator or
tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular business. If a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and/or vacates a property, we
may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. Also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple operators or
tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. These expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition. 

 We face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent
completion of development activities once undertaken.  

        Large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks
that:



•a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or
failure to recover expenses already incurred; 
•the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and
higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all;  
•the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including
natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses or provide
tenants or operators with the right to terminate pre-construction leases; and 
•occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the
property profitable. 


        These
risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 


 Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments.  

        We have and may continue in the future to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when
circumstances warrant the use of these
structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including:



•we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could
require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; 
•our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including
the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; 
•our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted;  
•our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to
fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and  
•our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. 


 From time to time, we acquire other companies and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition
may be materially adversely affected.  

        Acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of the operations
of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may encounter difficulties in
these integrations. Potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business
or that of the acquired entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of unexpected liabilities,
including:



•liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;  
•unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the seller; 
•liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior
to our acquisition; 
•claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; and 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. 


        In
addition, the acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental
or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards
established for their intended use. If we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies,
we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 From time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds.  

        We regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize stockholder value and believe that currently there are available a
number of acquisition opportunities that would be complementary to our business, given the recent industry consolidation trend. In connection with our review of such transactions, we regularly engage
in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, some of which are material. Any future acquisitions could require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent
liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, any of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the financing required
for such acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. 

 Loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us.  

        We are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers, and competition for these individuals is intense. Although our chief
executive officer, chief financial officer, chief investment officer and general counsel have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed with us. The loss or
limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock. 

 Unfavorable resolution of litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  

        From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits
allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various
claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance
that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, litigation. In addition, litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or
interruption of our normal business operations. 

 We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future
revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense.  

        We maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are
adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such 

22




 


<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

coverage,
and we continually review the insurance maintained by us. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters
and may be subject to other losses. In particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. While we purchase insurance for earthquake,
windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analyses prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance
will fully cover such losses. These losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. Following
these events, we may remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. The insurance market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to
purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. In addition, there are certain exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is
economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. 

 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments.  

        Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be
required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage
and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the
government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to
deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such
liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. The presence of contamination or the
failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. As the owner of a site, we
may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. Although we are generally indemnified by the current operators or
tenants of our properties for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. We may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions
not known to us. 

 The impact of the comprehensive healthcare regulation enacted in 2010 on us and operators and tenants cannot accurately be predicted.  


        Legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures each year that would affect major changes
in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Notably, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Affordable Care Act. The passage of the Affordable Care Act has resulted
in comprehensive reform legislation that is expanding healthcare coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in 2014 and that provides for significant changes to the U.S. healthcare
system over the next ten years. To help fund this expansion, the Affordable Care Act outlines certain reductions in Medicare reimbursements for various healthcare providers, including long-term acute
care hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain other changes to Medicare payment methodologies. This comprehensive healthcare legislation provides for extensive future rulemaking by
regulatory authorities, and also may be altered or amended. We cannot accurately predict whether any pending legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals
would have on our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. Similarly, while we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

will
affect our operators and tenants and the manner in which they are reimbursed by the federal healthcare programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on our
operators and tenants and thus on our business. 

        The
Supreme Court's decision upholding the constitutionality of the individual mandate while striking down the provisions linking federal funding of state Medicaid programs with a
federally mandated expansion of those programs has not reduced the uncertain impact that the law will have on healthcare delivery systems over the next decade. We can expect that the federal
authorities will continue to implement the law, but, because of the Supreme Court's mixed ruling, the implementation will take longer than originally expected, with a commensurate increase in the
period of uncertainty regarding the law's full long-term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare. 

 We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.  

        We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information,
and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, and tenant and lease data. We purchase some of our information
technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of
confidential tenant and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the
security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or
damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer
viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and
availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. 

 We are subject to certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations.  

        The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations,
including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an "interested stockholder"
or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria
are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a Maryland corporation.
Unless our Board of Directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to
business combinations between us and other persons. 

        In
addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the Maryland Business Combination Act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. Our charter
requires that, except in certain circumstances, "business combinations," including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a "related person,"
including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. 

24




 


<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        The
restrictions on business combinations provided under Maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such
transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. 

 Risk Related to Tax, including REIT-Related risks  

 Loss of our tax status as a REIT would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock.  


        Qualification as a REIT involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the "Code"), for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely
within our control. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a REIT. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual
annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Code. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at
least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income,
excluding net capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding
qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have
operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. 

        If
we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we
issue and to make distributions to stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT:



•we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;  
•we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income
at regular corporate rates; 
•we could be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and 
•unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for
the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a REIT. 


        As
a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value
of our common stock. 

 We could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties.  


        If, during the ten-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize gain on the disposition of any property
acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that
date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. There can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur,
and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg71501a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        In
addition, the IRS may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these
taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. 

 There are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-REIT tax earnings and profits ("E&P") in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute E&P.  


        In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-REIT E&P of
certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Failure to make such E&P distributions would result in our disqualification as a REIT.
The determination of the amount to be distributed in such E&P distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. We may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our
analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the IRS. We currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such E&P distributions. There are, however,
substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of E&P, including the possibility that the IRS could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased,
which would increase our non-REIT E&P. Moreover, an audit of the acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-REIT E&P, which could require us to pay an
additional taxable distribution to our then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a REIT. 

        Thus,
we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-REIT E&P by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Moreover, although there
are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our E&P, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. 


 Our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock.  

        Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us
in preserving our qualification as a REIT. Under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares,
whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. 

        Additionally,
our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. Our
Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. The ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that
might involve a
premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.  

<A
NAME="di71501_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B