ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors        

        The section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

        As
set forth below, we believe that the risks facing our company generally fall into the following four categories: 



•Risks related to our business;   
•Risks related to tax matters including REIT-related risks; and   
•Risks related to our legal organizational structure. 


 Risks Related to Our Business  

 Volatility in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development
activities.  

        The global financial markets recently have undergone and may continue to experience pervasive and fundamental disruptions. While the
capital markets have shown signs of improvement, the sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain and additional levels of market disruption and volatility could materially adversely impact our
ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. 

        Market
volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, that may result in a substantial decrease in the value
of our properties and those of our joint ventures. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to
recognize impairment charges in earnings. 


 We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs and if our access to such capital is unavailable, limited or on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to
meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business.  

        We may not be able to fund, from cash retained from operations, all future capital needs. If we are unable to obtain internally needed
capital, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business and to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. As a result, we rely on external sources of capital,
including debt and equity financing, to fulfill
our capital requirements. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: 



•general availability of credit and market conditions, including rising interest rates and increased borrowing cost;  
•the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and preferred securities;  
•the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions;  
•our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility;   
•financial integrity of our lenders that might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to
make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all;   
•the stability in the market value of our properties; 

14




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•the financial performance of our operators, tenants and borrowers; and   
•issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform and changes in government
reimbursement policies. 


        If
our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments,
acquire properties and fund operations and development activities. 

 Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market
price of our securities, including our common stock.  

        The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt and preferred equity securities are based on our operating performance, liquidity and
leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount and type of capital we can
access, as well as the terms of any financings we may obtain. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings and in the event that our current credit ratings
deteriorate, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and it may be more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. Also, a downgrade
in our credit ratings would trigger additional costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. 

 Our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations.  

        Our indebtedness as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $4.6 billion, and after giving effect to the sale of unsecured
notes issued on January 24, 2011 was approximately $7.0 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including in connection with the development or acquisition of
assets, which may be substantial. Any significant additional indebtedness could negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and
principal payments due on our indebtedness. Greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and
acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. Increased indebtedness can also limit our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, make us more vulnerable to general
adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with relatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt service obligations may limit
our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. 


 Covenants related to our indebtedness limit our operational flexibility and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations
and financial condition.  

        Our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and secured debt and other indebtedness that we may incur in the future,
require or will require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining certain levels of debt service coverage, leverage ratio, tangible net worth
requirements and REIT status. Our continued ability to incur indebtedness and operate in general is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, which limit our operational
flexibility. For example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the
applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. Breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of
our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. Additionally, defaults under the leases or operating agreements related to mortgaged properties, including
defaults 

15




 


<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



associated
with the bankruptcy of the applicable tenant or operator, may result in a default under the underlying mortgage and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. Covenants that
limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults under our debt instruments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 An increase in interest rates could increase interest cost on new debt, and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets and limit
our acquisition and development activities.  

        If interest rates increase, so could our interest costs for any new debt. This increased cost could make the financing of any
acquisition and development activity more costly. Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing
and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our
ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. 

 Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  

        From time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. See "Legal Proceedings" in
Part I, Item 3 in this report for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved. We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions
or the actions of our operators and tenants in which such operators and tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities
arising in connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance that we will be
able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead
to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. 

 A small number of operators, tenants and borrowers account for a large percentage of our revenues.  

        During the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 38% of our total revenues are generated by our leasing or financial
arrangements with the following five companies: Emeritus 10%; HCR ManorCare 9%; Sunrise 8%; HCA 6%; and Brookdale 5%. Upon closing the anticipated HCR ManorCare Acquisition in March 2011, revenues
earned from HCR ManorCare will increase significantly. The failure or inability of these operators, tenants or borrowers to meet their obligations to us could materially reduce our cash flow as well
as our results of operations, which could in turn reduce the amount of dividends we pay, cause our stock price to decline and have other material adverse effects on our business, results of operations
and financial condition. 

 We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be
unable to successfully operate or occupy the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.  


        If an operator or tenant defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or protect our
interest by acquiring title to the collateral. In some cases, as noted above, the collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property
and, accordingly, we may not have full recourse to assets of that entity. Operators, tenants or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against
our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. Foreclosure-related costs, high 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



loan-to-value
ratios or declines in the value of the facility may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan upon foreclosure. Even if we are
able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously seek tenants or operators, if at all,
which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. 


 Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare facilities.  

        Transfers of healthcare facilities to successor tenants or operators may be subject to regulatory approvals, including change of
ownership approvals under certificate of need laws and Medicare and Medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real
estate. The replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the
replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. If we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a facility,
which might expose us to successor liability or require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we might transfer the operating rights and licenses, all of which may materially adversely affect
our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

 Competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare facilities, to grow our investment portfolio.  

        We face significant competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds,
healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. Increased competition makes it more challenging
for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals. If we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of
healthcare facilities at favorable prices or if we are unable to finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially
adversely affected. 

 We may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our healthcare properties suitable for other operators and tenants.  

        Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The
improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and at times tenant-specific. A new or replacement
operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator's or tenant's particular operations. If a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a
property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property before we are able to secure another operator or tenant. Also, if the property needs to be renovated to accommodate multiple
operators or tenants, we may incur substantial expenditures before we are able to re-lease the space. These expenditures or renovations may materially adversely affect our business,
results of operations and financial condition. 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 We face additional risks associated with property development that can render a project less profitable or not profitable at all and, under certain circumstances, prevent
completion of development activities once undertaken.  

        Large-scale, ground-up development of healthcare properties presents additional risks for us, including risks
that: 



•a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or
failure to recover expenses already incurred;   
•the development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and
higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable;   
•construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all;   
•the project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service
expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including: natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and  
•occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the
property profitable. 


        These
risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments.  


        We may develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these
structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that: 



•we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could
require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes;   
•our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including
the timing, terms and strategies for any investments;   
•our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to
fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and  
•our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. 


 From time to time, we acquire other companies and if we are unable to successfully integrate these operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition
may be materially adversely affected.  

        Acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. Successful integration of the operations
of these companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may encounter difficulties in
these integrations. Potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



acquired
entity, possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and the assumption of unexpected liabilities. In addition, the acquired companies and their properties may
fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future
revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use. If we have difficulties with any of
these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies,
we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 From time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds.  

        We regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize shareholder value and believe that currently there are available a
number of acquisition opportunities that would be complementary to our business, given the recent industry consolidation trend. In connection with our review of such transactions, we regularly engage
in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, some of which are material. Any future acquisitions could require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent
liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, any of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the financing required
for such acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. 

 Loss of our key personnel could temporarily disrupt our operations and adversely affect us  

        We are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers. Although our chief executive officer has an employment agreement with us, we
cannot assure you that he will remain employed with us. The loss or limited availability of the services of our chief executive officer or any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit
and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and be negatively perceived in
the capital markets. 

 We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses, which could result in a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property, decrease anticipated future
revenues or cause us to incur unanticipated expense.  

        We maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are
adequate and appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage. However, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other natural
disasters and may be subject to other losses. In particular, our life science portfolio is concentrated in areas known to be subject to earthquake activity. While we purchase insurance for earthquake,
windstorm, flood and other natural disasters that we believe is adequate in light of current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, there is no assurance that such insurance
will fully cover such losses. These losses can decrease our anticipated revenues from a property and result in the loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property. The insurance
market for such exposures can be very volatile and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis in the future. In addition, there are certain
exposures where insurance is not purchased as we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or where there is no viable insurance market. 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate related investments may materially impair the value of those investments.  

        Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as a current or previous owner of real estate, we may be
required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous substances released at a property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation
and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages
and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Although we (i) currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount and subject to deductibles that we believe
are commercially reasonable, and (ii) generally require our operators and tenants to undertake to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount
of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may
materially adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. As the owner of a site, we may also be held liable under common law to third
parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. 

 The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of one or more of our major operators or tenants may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations
and financial condition.  

        We lease our properties directly to operators in most cases, and in certain other cases, we lease to third-party tenants who enter into
long-term management agreements with operators to manage the properties. Although our leases, financing arrangements and other agreements with our tenants and operators generally provide
us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict an operator or tenant, or demand immediate repayment of certain obligations to us, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a
party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of these remedies unenforceable, or at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies. For example, we cannot evict
a tenant or operator solely because of its bankruptcy filing. A debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or reject its unexpired contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding.
If a debtor were to reject its leases with us, our claim against the debtor for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which may be
substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. In addition, the inability of our tenants or operators to make payments or comply with certain other lease obligations may
affect our compliance with certain covenants contained in our debt securities, credit facilities and the mortgages on the properties leased or managed by such tenants and operators. In addition, under
certain conditions, defaults under the underlying mortgages may result in cross-default under our other indebtedness. Although we believe that we would be able to secure amendments under the
applicable agreements in those circumstances, the bankruptcy of an applicable operator or tenant may potentially result in less favorable borrowing terms than currently available, delays in the
availability of funding or other material adverse consequences. In addition, many of our facilities are leased to health care providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly;
evicting such operators for failure to pay rent while the facility is occupied may be a difficult and slow process, and may not be successful. 

 We may be required to impair the carrying values of the straight-line rents receivable or lease intangibles or impair the related carrying value of leased
properties.  

        Many of our operating leases also contain non-contingent rent escalators for which we recognize income on a
straight-line basis over the lease term. This method results in rental income in the early years of a lease being higher than actual cash received, creating a straight-line
rent receivable asset included in the caption "Other assets, net" on our consolidated balance sheets. At some point during 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



the
lease, depending on its terms, the cash rent payments eventually exceed the straight-line rent which results in the straight-line rent receivable asset decreasing to zero
over the remainder of the lease term. We assess the collectability of the straight-line rent that is expected to be collected in a future period, and, depending on
circumstances, we may provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight-line rent receivable asset for a portion, up to its full value, that we estimate may not be recoverable.
In addition, upon acquisition of a leased property that we account for as an operating lease, we may record lease-related intangible assets. The balance of straight-line rent receivable at
December 31, 2010, net of allowances was $207 million. We had approximately $316 million of lease-related intangible assets, net of amortization, and $148 million of
lease-related intangible liabilities, net of amortization, associated with our operating leases at December 31, 2010. To the extent any of the operators or tenants for our properties, for the
reasons discussed above, become unable to pay amounts due, we may be required to impair the carrying values of the straight-line rents receivable or lease intangibles or may impair the
related carrying value of leased properties. 

 The current U.S. housing market may adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to increase or maintain occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our senior
housing facilities.  

        Our tenants and operators may have relatively flat or declining occupancy levels in the near-term due to falling home
prices, declining incomes, stagnant home sales and other economic factors. Seniors may choose to postpone their plans to move into senior housing facilities rather than sell their homes at a loss, or
for a profit below their expectations. Moreover, tightening lending standards have made it more difficult for potential buyers to obtain mortgage financing, all of which have contributed to the
declining home sales. In addition, the senior housing segment may continue to experience a decline in occupancy associated with private pay residents choosing to move out of the facilities to be cared
for at home by relatives due to the weak economy. A material decline in our tenants' and operators' occupancy levels and revenues may make it more difficult for them to meet their financial
obligations to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 


 Operators and tenants that fail to comply with the requirements of governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, may cease to operate or be unable to
meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.  

        Certain of our operators and tenants are affected by an extremely complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that are
subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing
law. See "Item 1—Business—Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement" above. For example, to the extent that any of our operators or tenants receive a significant
portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to: 



•statutory and regulatory changes;   
•retroactive rate adjustments;   
•recovery of program overpayments or set-offs;   
•administrative rulings;   
•policy interpretations;   
•payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers;   
•government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities); and  
•interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        In
recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to healthcare providers due to budgetary pressures. Healthcare reimbursement will likely continue to be of
significant importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect
that any future legislative reforms may have on our operators' and tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. The failure of any of
our operators or tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. 

 Operators and tenants that fail to comply with federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations may cease to operate or be unable to
meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.  

        Certain of our operators and tenants are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and
regulations. Our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from
federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. For example, certain of our properties may require a license and/or certificate of need to operate. Failure of any
operator or tenant to obtain a license or certificate of need, or loss of a required license or certificate of need, would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by such operator or
tenant. Additionally, failure of our operators and tenants to generally comply with applicable laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on facilities owned by or mortgaged to us, and therefore
may materially adversely impact us. See "Item 1—Business—Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement—Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need"
above. 

 The impact of the comprehensive healthcare regulation enacted in 2010 on us and operators and tenants cannot accurately be predicted.  

        Legislative proposals are introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures each year that would affect major changes
in the healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. While Congress passed comprehensive legislation last year that provides for significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system over
the next ten years, Congress is currently considering making changes to that new legislation. In addition, the comprehensive health care legislation passed by Congress in 2010 provides for extensive
future rulemaking by regulatory authorities. We cannot accurately predict whether any pending legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on
our operators and tenants and, thus, our business. Similarly, while we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities will affect our operators and
tenants and the manner in which they are reimbursed by the federal health care programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on our operators and tenants and thus on our
business. 

 Increased competition, as well as an inability to grow revenues as originally forecast, have resulted in lower net revenues for some of our operators and tenants and may
affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us.  

        The healthcare industry is highly competitive and can become more competitive in the future. The occupancy levels at, and rental income
from, our facilities is dependent on our ability and the ability of our operators and tenants to maintain and increase such levels and income, and to compete with entities that have substantial
capital resources. These entities compete with other operators and tenants on a number of different levels, including: the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility,
price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and
demographics of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and state 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



payment
programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants. Our operators and tenants also compete with
numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and
convalescent centers. Such competition, which has intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we invest, has caused the occupancy rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the
monthly rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to obtain for their services to decrease. We cannot be certain that the operators and tenants of all of our facilities
will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to
those of our operators and tenants. Thus, our operators and tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents or expand their
businesses which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligation to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and
dispute costs. 

 Our operators and tenants may not procure the necessary insurance to adequately insure against losses.  

        Our leases generally require our tenants and operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance that
covers us, as well as the tenants and operators. Some types of losses may not be adequately insured by our tenants and operators. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur,
we could incur liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless
remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We continually review the insurance maintained by our tenants and operators. However, we cannot assure
you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. 

 Our operators and tenants are faced with litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs.  

        In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities and these groups have brought
litigation against the operators and tenants of such facilities. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect
of this litigation and other potential litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our operators and tenants for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance. In addition, their
cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance can be significant and may increase so long as the present healthcare litigation environment continues. Cost increases could cause our operators to
be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and
litigation costs. In addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare facilities, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits allegedly arising from the actions of our operators or tenants, which
may require unanticipated expenditures on our part. 

 Our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty.  

        Life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain unique
risks, as follows: 



•some of our tenants require significant outlays of funds for the research, development and clinical testing of their
products and technologies. If private investors, the government or other sources of funding are unavailable to support such activities, a tenant's business may be adversely affected or fail; 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants' products require federal,
state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain;   
•even after a life science tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present
significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns, competition from new products, and ultimately the expiration of patent protection
for the product;   
•our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of
government or private healthcare payors; and   
•our tenants may be unable to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws. 


        We
cannot assure you that our life science tenants will be successful in their businesses. If our tenants' businesses are adversely affected, they may have difficulty making payments to
us, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 


 Tax and REIT-Related Risks  

 Loss of our tax status as a REIT would substantially reduce our available funds and would have material adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock.  

        Qualification as a REIT involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the "Code"), for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely
within our control. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a REIT. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual
annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Code. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at
least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually at
least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or
interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders.
Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. 


        If
we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we
issue and to make distributions to stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT: 



•we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;  
•we will be subject to corporate-level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income
at regular corporate rates;   
•we could be subject to increased local income taxes; and   
•unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for
the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a REIT. 

24










<A
NAME="page_dk48001_1_25"> 





  




































Table of Contents 


        As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially
adversely affect the value of our common stock. 

 Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction.  

        From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties. Under the Code, any gain resulting from transfers of
properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since
we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers of property are properly treated as prohibited transactions. However, the determination that a transfer
constitutes a prohibited transaction is based on the facts and circumstances surrounding each transfer. The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") may contend that certain transfers of properties by us are
prohibited transactions. While we believe that the IRS would not prevail in any such dispute, if the IRS were to argue successfully that a transfer of property constituted a prohibited transaction,
then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might materially adversely affect our ability to
satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. 

 We could in the future choose to pay dividends in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive.  

        Under certain circumstances, a stock dividend will be a taxable dividend if each stockholder can elect to receive the distribution in
cash, even if the aggregate cash amount paid to all stockholders is limited. Accordingly, if we decide to pay a stock dividend in such a manner, your taxable dividend will include the amount of stock
and your tax liability with respect to such dividend may be significantly greater than the amount of cash you receive. 

 We could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties.  

        If, during the ten-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize gain on the disposition of
any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property
as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. There can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will
not occur, and these requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. 

        In
addition, the IRS may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these
taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. 

 There are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-REIT tax earnings and profits ("E&P") in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute E&P.  


        In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-REIT
E&P of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Failure to make such E&P distributions would result in our disqualification as a
REIT. The determination of the amount to be distributed in such E&P distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. We may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our
analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the IRS. 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



We
currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such E&P distributions. There are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of E&P, including the
possibility that the IRS could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-REIT E&P. Moreover, an audit of the
acquired company following our acquisition could result in an increase in accumulated non-REIT E&P, which could require us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our
then-existing stockholders, if we qualify under rules for curing this type of default, or could result in our disqualification as a REIT. 

        Thus,
we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-REIT E&P by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Moreover,
although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our E&P, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on
us of doing so. 

 Risks Related to our Legal Organizational Structure  

 Our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock.  

        Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us
in preserving our qualification as a
REIT. Under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the
outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. 


        Additionally,
our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. Our
Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. The ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that
might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 

 We are subject to certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations.  

        The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations,
including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an "interested stockholder"
or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date no which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria
are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a Maryland corporation.
Unless our Board of Directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to
business combinations between us and other persons. 

        In
addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the Maryland Business Combination Act, our charter also contains restrictions on business combinations. Our charter
requires that, except in certain circumstances, "business combinations", including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a "related person",
including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. 

        The
restrictions on business combinations provided under Maryland law and contained in our charter may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such
transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. 

26




 

<A
HREF="#bg48001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



<A
NAME="dk48001_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B