Item 1A.
  
  
   
  
  
  Risk Factors
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  19
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  1B.
  
  
   
  
  
  Unresolved
  Staff Comments
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  23
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 2.
  
  
   
  
  
  Properties
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  23
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 3.
  
  
   
  
  
  Legal
  Proceedings
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  26
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  4.
  
  
   
  
  
  Submission
  of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  26
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  PART II
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  5.
  
  
   
  
  
  Market
  for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  27
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  6.
  
  
   
  
  
  Selected
  Financial Data
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  30
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  7.
  
  
   
  
  
  Management’s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  31
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  7A.
  
  
   
  
  
  Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  44
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  8.
  
  
   
  
  
  Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  9.
  
  
   
  
  
  Changes
  in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  9A.
  
  
   
  
  
  Controls
  and Procedures
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  PART III
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  10.
  
  
   
  
  
  Directors
  and Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  11.
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Compensation
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  12.
  
  
   
  
  
  Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  13.
  
  
   
  
  
  Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  14.
  
  
   
  
  
  Principal
  Accountant Fees and Services
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  15.
  
  
   
  
  
  Exhibits,
  Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  49
  
  
   
  
 




 











PART I

ITEM 1.                Business

Business Overview

Health Care Property Investors, Inc., together
with its consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures (collectively, “HCP” or
the “Company”), invests primarily in real estate serving the healthcare
industry in the United States. Health Care Property Investors, Inc. is a
Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) organized in 1985. The Company
is headquartered in Long Beach, California, with operations in Nashville,
Tennessee, and its portfolio includes interests in 527 properties in 42 states.
The Company acquires healthcare facilities and leases them to healthcare
providers and provides mortgage financing secured by healthcare facilities. The
Company’s portfolio includes: (i) senior housing, including independent
living facilities (“ILFs”), assisted living facilities (“ALFs”), and continuing
care retirement communities (“CCRCs”); (ii) medical office buildings (“MOBs”);
(iii) hospitals; (iv) skilled nursing facilities (“SNFs”); and (v) other
healthcare facilities, including laboratory and office buildings. For business
segment financial data, see our consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere in this report.

References herein to “HCP,” the “Company,” “we,” “us”
and “our” include Health Care Property Investors, Inc. and its
consolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, unless the context otherwise
requires.

On our internet website, www.hcpi.com,
you can access, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K,
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers, including HCP, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

Healthcare Industry

Healthcare is the single
largest industry in the United States, representing 15.3% of U.S. Gross
Domestic Product (“GDP”) in 2003 and growing at a rate faster than the overall
economy.

Healthcare
Expenditures Rising as a Percentage of GDP



Source: Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid, December 2005. Compound Annual Growth Rate (“CAGR”)


 2 





The delivery of healthcare
services requires real estate and as a consequence, healthcare providers depend
on real estate to maintain and grow their businesses. HCP believes that the
current healthcare real estate market provides an investment opportunity for
investors based on:

·       Likelihood
of consolidation of the fragmented healthcare real estate sector;

·       Specialized
nature of healthcare real estate investing; and

·       Compelling
demographics driving the demand for healthcare services.

Senior citizens are the
largest consumers of healthcare services. According to the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid, on a per capita basis, the 75 years and older segment of the
population spends 75% more on healthcare than the 65 to 74-year-old
segment and nearly 400% more than the population average.

U.S. Population Over 65 Years Old



Source: U.S. Census
Bureau, Statistical Abstract of the United States: 2004-2005.

Business Strategy

We are organized to invest
in healthcare related facilities. Our primary goal is to increase shareholder
value through profitable growth. Our investment strategy to achieve this goal
is based on three principles—opportunistic investing, portfolio
diversification, and conservative financing.

Opportunistic Investing

We make real estate
investments that are expected to drive profitable growth and create long-term
shareholder value. We attempt to position ourselves to create and take
advantage of situations where we believe the opportunities meet our goals and
investment criteria. We invest in properties directly and through joint
ventures, and provide secured financing, depending on the nature of the
investment opportunity.

Portfolio Diversification

We believe in maintaining
a portfolio of healthcare-related real estate diversified by sector, geography,
operator and investment product. Diversification within the healthcare industry
reduces the likelihood that a single event would materially harm our business.
This allows us to take advantage of opportunities in different markets based on
individual market dynamics. While pursuing our strategy of 


 3 





maintaining
diversification in our portfolio, there are no specific limitations on the
percentage of our total assets that may be invested in any one property,
property type, geographic location or in the number of properties which we may
invest, lease or lend to a single operator. With investments in multiple
sectors of healthcare real estate, HCP can focus on opportunities with the best
risk/reward profile for the portfolio as a whole, rather than having to choose
from transactions within a specific property type.

Conservative Financing

We believe a conservative
balance sheet provides us with the ability to execute our opportunistic
investing approach and portfolio diversification principles. We maintain our
conservative balance sheet by actively managing our debt to equity levels and
maintaining available sources of liquidity, such as our revolving line of
credit. Our debt is primarily fixed rate, which reduces the impact of rising interest
rates on our operations. Generally, we attempt to match the long-term duration
of our leases with long-term fixed rate financing.

In underwriting our
investments, we structure and adjust the price of the investment in accordance
with our assessment of risk. We may structure transactions as master leases,
require indemnifications, obtain enhancements in the form of letters of credit
or security deposits, and take other measures to mitigate risk. We finance our
investments based on our evaluation of available sources of funding. For
short-term purposes, we may utilize our revolving line of credit or arrange for
other short-term borrowings from banks or other sources. We arrange for
longer-term financing through public offerings or from institutional investors.
We may incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred or common stock.

We may incur additional
mortgage indebtedness on real estate we acquire. We may also obtain
non-recourse or other mortgage financing on unleveraged properties in which we
have invested or may refinance existing debt on properties acquired.

Competition

Our properties compete
with the facilities of other landlords and healthcare providers. The landlords
and operators of these competing properties may have capital resources substantially
in excess of ours or of the operators of our facilities. The occupancy and
rental income at our properties depend upon several factors, including the
number of physicians using the healthcare facilities or referring patients to
the facilities, competing properties and healthcare providers, and the size and
composition of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and
state payment programs and the effect of laws and regulations may also have a
significant influence on the profitability of the properties and their tenants.
Virtually all of our properties operate in a competitive environment in which
tenants, patients and referral sources, including physicians, may change their
preferences for a healthcare facility from time to time.

Investing in real estate
is highly competitive. We face competition from other REITs, investment
companies, healthcare operators and other institutional investors when we
attempt to acquire properties. Increased competition reduces the number of
opportunities that meet our investment criteria. If we do not identify
investments that meet our investment criteria, our ability to increase
shareholder value through profitable growth may be limited.

2005 Overview

Real Estate Transactions

During
2005, we acquired interests in properties and made secured loans aggregating $647
million with an average yield of 7.7%. Our 2005 investments were made in the
following healthcare sectors: (i) 62% senior housing facilities; (ii) 32%
medical office buildings; and (iii) 6% hospitals. 2005 investments
included the following:

·       On April 20, 2005, we
acquired five assisted living facilities for $58 million through a
sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15
years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is 9.0%
with annual escalators based on the Consumer Price Index 


 4 





(“CPI”) that have a
floor of 2.75%. These properties are included in a master lease that has 21 properties
leased to the operator.

·       On April 28, 2005, we
acquired five medical office buildings for approximately $81 million, including
assumed debt valued at $29 million. The initial yield is 7.0%, with two
properties currently in lease-up. The yield following lease-up is expected to
be 8.2%. The medical office buildings include approximately 537,000 rentable
square feet.

·       On July 1, 2005, we
acquired an assisted living facility for $16 million through a sale-leaseback
transaction. The facility has an initial lease term of 15 years, with two
ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is 8.75% with annual
CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%.

·       On July 22, 2005, we
acquired twelve independent and assisted living facilities for approximately
$252 million, including assumed debt and non-managing member LLC units (“DownREIT
units”) valued at $52 million and $19 million, respectively, through a
sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15
years, with three ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is
7.1% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 3%.

·       On August 31, 2005, we
acquired five assisted living facilities for $41 million through a
sale-leaseback transaction. These facilities have an initial lease term of 15
years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate is 8.5%
with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. These properties
are included in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the operator.

·       On October 19, 2005,
we acquired seven medical office buildings for $51 million, including assumed
debt and DownREIT units valued at $24 million and $11 million, respectively. The
medical office buildings include approximately 351,000 rentable square feet and
have an initial yield of 8.2%.

·       On December 22, 2005,
we acquired two independent and assisted living facilities for $18 million
through a sale-leaseback transaction. The facilities have an initial lease term
of 15 years, with two ten-year renewal options. The initial annual lease rate
is 8.5% with annual CPI-based escalators that have a floor of 2.75%. These
properties are included in a master lease that has 21 properties leased to the
operator.

·       On December 23, 2005,
we acquired two medical office buildings for $25 million. The medical office
buildings include approximately 152,000 rentable square feet and have an
initial yield of 7.4%.

·       On December 28, 2005,
we closed a $40 million loan secured by a hospital in Texas. The note bears
interest at 8.75% per annum. Subject to certain performance conditions, we may
fund an additional $10 million under the existing loan agreement.

·       During 2005, we sold
interests in 20 properties for $71 million and recognized gains of $10 million.

Capital Markets Transactions

·       On
April 27, 2005, we issued $250 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes
due 2017. The notes were priced at 99.585% of the principal amount with an
effective yield of 5.673%. We received proceeds of $247 million, which were
used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.

·       On
September 16, 2005, we issued $200 million of 4.875% senior unsecured
notes due 2010. The notes were priced at 99.567% of the principal amount with
an effective yield of 4.974%. We received net proceeds of $198 million, which
were used to repay outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.

·  During the year ended December 31, 2005, we
issued approximately 878,000 shares of our common stock under our Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan at an average price per share of $25.80
for proceeds of $23 million.


 5










Other Events

·       Quarterly
dividends paid during 2005 aggregated to $1.68 per share. On February 6, 2006,
we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly common stock cash
dividend of $0.425 per share. The common stock dividend will be paid on
February 23, 2006, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on
February 13, 2006. This dividend equals $1.70 per share on an annualized basis.
Our Board of Directors has determined to continue its policy of considering
dividend increases on an annual rather than quarterly basis.

Properties

Portfolio Summary

Our
portfolio of investments at December 31, 2005 includes direct investments
in healthcare related properties, mortgage loans, and investments through joint
ventures. Our properties include senior housing facilities, medical office
buildings, hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other healthcare
facilities. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2005, our portfolio
of investments, excluding assets held for sale and classified as discontinued
operations, consists of the following (square feet and dollars in thousands):




 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Property Type
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Number
  of
  Properties
  
  
   
  
  
  Capacity(1)
  
  
   
  
  
  Square Feet
  
  
   
  
  
  Investment(2)
  
  
   
  
  
  Total
  Revenues
  
  
   
  
  
  Total
  Operating
  Expenses
  
  
   
  
  
  NOI(3)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Owned properties:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Senior housing
  facilities
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  127
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  13,204
  Units
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  12,949
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,290,169
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  115,937
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  8,887
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  107,050
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Medical office
  buildings
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  107
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  6,530
  Sq. ft.
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  6,530
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  982,647
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  126,898
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  44,905
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  81,993
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Hospitals
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  26
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  3,269
  Beds
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  3,272
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  713,454
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  91,122
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  91,122
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Skilled nursing
  facilities
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  152
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  18,171
  Beds
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  5,948
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  650,553
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  87,665
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  87,665
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Other healthcare facilities
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  23
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  1,591
  Sq. ft.
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  1,591
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  243,166
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  30,623
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  5,191
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  25,432
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total owned properties
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  435
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  30,290
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  3,879,989
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  452,245
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  58,983
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  393,262
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Mortgage loans:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Senior housing
  facilities
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  9
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  537 Units
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  407
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  27,816
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Hospitals
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  3
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  226
  Beds
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  411
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  96,476
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Skilled nursing
  facilities
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  13
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  1,850
  Beds
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  540
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  51,134
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total mortgage
  loans
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  25
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  1,358
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  175,426
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Unconsolidated Joint Ventures:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Senior housing
  facilities
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  412
  Units
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  235
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  260
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Medical office
  buildings
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  63
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4,286
  Sq. ft.
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4,286
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  44,538
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total
  unconsolidated joint ventures
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  67
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4,521
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  44,798
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 






(1)             Senior housing facilities are stated in units (e.g.,
studio, one or two bedroom units). Medical office buildings and other healthcare
facilities are measured in square feet. Hospitals and skilled nursing
facilities are measured by licensed bed count.

(2)             Investment for owned properties represents the carrying
amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back accumulated
depreciation and amortization, and excludes assets held for sale and classified
as discontinued operations. Investment for mortgage loans receivable and
unconsolidated joint ventures represents the carrying amount of our investment.


 6 





(3)             Net Operating Income from Continuing
Operations (“NOI”) is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to
evaluate the operating performance of real estate properties. We define NOI as
rental revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level operating
expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and
administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and discontinued
operations. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information
because it measures the operating performance of our real estate at the
property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and assess property level performance. We believe that net
income is the most directly comparable GAAP (U.S. generally accepted accounting
principals) measure to NOI. NOI should not be viewed as an alternative measure
of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP since it does not
reflect the aforementioned excluded items. Further, NOI may not be comparable
to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may use different
methodologies for calculating NOI. The following reconciles NOI to Net Income
for 2005 (in thousands):




 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Amount
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Net
  operating income from continuing operations
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  393,262
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Equity loss from
  unconsolidated joint ventures
  
  
   
  
  
  (1,123
  
  
  )
  
 
 
  
  Interest and other
  income
  
  
   
  
  
  26,154
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Interest expense
  
  
   
  
  
  (107,201
  
  
  )
  
 
 
  
  Depreciation and
  amortization
  
  
   
  
  
  (106,934
  
  
  )
  
 
 
  
  General and
  administrative expense
  
  
   
  
  
  (32,067
  
  
  )
  
 
 
  
  Minority interests
  
  
   
  
  
  (12,950
  
  
  )
  
 
 
  
  Total discontinued
  operations
  
  
   
  
  
  13,916
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Net income
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  173,057
  
  
   
  
 




 

Unconsolidated
Joint Ventures

The
following is summarized unaudited information for our unconsolidated joint
ventures as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 (square feet and
dollars in thousands):




 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  Property Type
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Number of 
  Properties
  
  
   
  
  
  Capacity(1)
  
  
   
  
  
  Square
  Feet
  
  
   
  
  
  Joint Venture
  Investment(2)
  
  
   
  
  
  Total
  Revenues
  
  
   
  
  
  Total
  Operating
  Expenses
  
  
   
  
  
  NOI(3)
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
  Senior housing facilities
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  412
  Units
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  235
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  20,111
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  2,205
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  344
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,861
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Medical office buildings
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  63
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4,286
  Sq. ft.
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4,286
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  420,703
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  73,786
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  32,666
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  41,120
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  67
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4,521
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  440,814
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  75,991
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  33,010
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  42,981
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 






(1)    Senior
housing facilities are stated in units (e.g., studio, one or two bedroom units)
and medical office buildings are measured in square feet.

(2)    Represents
the carrying amount of real estate assets within the joint venture, including
intangibles, after adding back accumulated depreciation and amortization and
excludes assets held for sale and classified as discontinued operations.

(3)    Net Operating Income from Continuing Operations (“NOI”)
is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure used to evaluate the operating
performance of real estate properties. We define NOI as rental revenues, including
tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses, which exclude
depreciation and amortization, general and administrative expenses,
impairments, interest expense and discontinued operations. We believe NOI
provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the
operating performance of our real estate at the property level on an
unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and
assess property level performance. We believe that net income is the most
directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI. NOI should not be viewed as an
alternative measure of operating performance to net income as defined by GAAP
since it does not reflect the aforementioned excluded items. Further, NOI may
not be comparable to that of other real estate investment trusts, as they may
use different methodologies for calculating NOI.

Healthcare Sectors
and Property Types

We have investments in senior housing facilities,
medical office buildings, hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other
healthcare facilities. Certain tenants of our properties are reliant on
government reimbursements, such as those from Medicare and Medicaid—See
Governmental Regulation for the 


 7 





potential impact on the
value of our investments and our results of operations. The following describes
the nature of the operations of our tenants and borrowers.

Senior Housing Facilities.   We have interests in 140 senior housing facilities,
including four properties in unconsolidated joint ventures. Senior housing
properties include ILFs, ALFs and CCRCs, which cater to different segments of
the elderly population based upon their needs. Services provided by our tenants
in these facilities are primarily paid for by the residents directly or through
private insurance and are less reliant on government reimbursement such as
Medicaid and Medicare.

·       Independent Living Facilities.   ILFs are designed to meet the needs of seniors who choose to
live in an environment surrounded by their peers with services such as
housekeeping, meals and activities. These residents generally do not need
assistance with activities of daily living (“ADLs”), including bathing, eating
and dressing; however, residents have the option to contract for these
services.

·       Assisted Living Facilities.   ALFs are licensed care
facilities that provide personal care services, support and housing for those
who need help with ADLs yet require limited medical care. The programs and
services may include transportation, social activities, exercise and fitness
programs, beauty or barber shop access, hobby and craft activities, community
excursions, meals in a dining room setting and other activities sought by
residents. These facilities are often in apartment-like buildings with private
residences ranging from single rooms to large apartments. Certain ALFs may
offer higher levels of personal assistance for residents with Alzheimer’s
disease or other forms of dementia, based in part on local regulations.

·       Continuing Care Retirement Communities.   CCRCs provide
housing and health-related services under long-term contracts. This alternative
is appealing to residents as it eliminates the need for relocating when health
and medical needs change, thus allowing residents to “age in place.” Some CCRCs
require a substantial entry fee or buy-in fee, and most also charge monthly
maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services.
CCRCs typically require the individual to be in relatively good health and
independent upon entry.

Medical
Office Buildings.   We have interests in 170 MOBs,
including 63 properties owned by HCP Medical Office Portfolio, LLC (“HCP MOP”).
These facilities typically contain physicians’ offices and examination rooms,
and may also include pharmacies, hospital ancillary service space and
outpatient services such as diagnostic centers, rehabilitation clinics and
day-surgery operating rooms. While these facilities are similar to commercial
office buildings, they require more plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems
to accommodate multiple exam rooms that require sinks in every room, brighter
lights and special equipment such as medical gases.

Hospitals.   We
have interests in 29 hospitals, which include 17 acute care, three long-term
acute care and nine rehabilitation hospitals. Services provided by our tenants in these facilities are paid for by
private sources, third party payors (e.g., insurance and HMOs), or through the
Medicare and Medicaid programs.

·       Acute Care Hospitals.   Acute care hospitals offer a
wide range of services such as fully-equipped operating and recovery rooms,
obstetrics, radiology, intensive care, open heart surgery and coronary care,
neurosurgery, neonatal intensive care,
magnetic resonance imaging, nursing units, oncology, clinical laboratories,
respiratory therapy, physical therapy, nuclear medicine, rehabilitation
services and outpatient services.

·       Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals.   Long-term acute care
hospitals provide care for patients with complex medical conditions that
require longer stays and more intensive care, monitoring, or emergency back-up
than that available in most skilled nursing-based sub-acute programs.


 8 





·       Rehabilitation Hospitals.   Rehabilitation hospitals
provide inpatient and outpatient care for patients who have sustained traumatic
injuries or illnesses, such as spinal cord injuries, strokes, head injuries,
orthopedic problems, work-related disabilities and neurological diseases.

Skilled
Nursing Facilities.   We have interests in 165
SNFs. SNFs offer restorative, rehabilitative
and custodial nursing care for people not requiring the more extensive and
sophisticated treatment available at hospitals. Ancillary revenues and revenue
from sub-acute care services are derived from providing services to residents
beyond room and board and include occupational, physical, speech, respiratory
and intravenous therapy, wound care, oncology treatment, brain injury care and
orthopedic therapy as well as sales of pharmaceutical products and other
services. Certain skilled nursing facilities provide some of the foregoing
services on an out-patient basis. Skilled nursing services provided by our
tenants in these facilities are primarily paid for either by private sources,
or through the Medicare and Medicaid programs.

Other Healthcare
Facilities.   We have investments in ten
healthcare laboratory and biotech research facilities. These facilities are designed to
accommodate research and development in the bio-pharmaceutical industry, drug
discovery and development, and predictive and personalized medicine. We also
have investments in five physician group practice clinic facilities leased to
five different tenants, six health and wellness centers, and two facilities
used for other healthcare purposes. The physician group practice clinics
generally provide a broad range of medical services through organized physician
groups representing various medical specialties. Health and wellness centers
provide testing and preventative health maintenance services.

Investment Products

Owned and Joint
Venture Property Investments

As of December 31,
2005, we had investments in 527 properties, including 67 properties through
joint ventures; Whether owned wholly or through joint ventures, the owned
properties may be characterized as one of three types: triple-net leased
property, operating property or development property.

Triple-net Leased
Properties:

Triple-net leased properties are generally
single-tenant buildings leased to a healthcare provider under a triple-net
lease. Pursuant to triple-net leases, tenants pay base rent and additional rent
to us and pay all operating expenses incurred at the property, including
utilities, property taxes, insurance, and repairs and maintenance. Certain
leases contain annual base rent escalations based on a predetermined fixed
rate, an inflation index or some other factor. Other leases may require tenants
to pay additional rent based upon a percentage of the facility’s revenue in
excess of the revenue for a specific base period or threshold.

The first year
annual base rental rates on properties we acquired during 2005 ranged from 7%
to 9% of the purchase price of the property. Rental rates vary by lease, taking
into consideration many factors, including:

·       creditworthiness
of the tenant;

·       operating
performance of the facility;

·       cost
of capital at the inception of the lease;

·       location,
type and physical condition of the facility;

·       barriers
to entry, such as certificates of need, competitive development and
constraining high land costs; and

·       lease
term.


 9 





Our hospitals, skilled
nursing facilities, and senior housing facilities are typically leased on a
triple-net basis with initial terms that range from five to 15 years, and
generally have one or more renewal options. As of December 31, 2005, the
weighted average remaining term, excluding unexercised renewal options, on
these triple-net leased properties is approximately eight years.

Operating
Properties:

Our operating properties are typically multi-tenant
medical office buildings that are leased to multiple healthcare providers
(hospitals and physician practices) under a gross, modified gross or net lease
structure. Under a gross or modified gross lease, all or a portion of operating
expenses are not reimbursed by tenants. Most of our owned MOBs are managed by
third party property management companies and 19 are leased on a net basis
while 88 are leased to multiple tenants under gross or modified gross leases
pursuant to which we are responsible for certain operating expenses. Regardless
of lease structure, most of our leases at operating properties include annual
base rent escalation clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or
are a function of an inflation index, and typically have an initial term
ranging from one to fourteen years, with a weighted average remaining term of
approximately five years as of December 31, 2005.

The
following table reflects the reduction in revenue (based on 2005 revenue) for
owned triple-net leased and operating properties resulting from lease
expirations, absent the impact of renewals, if any (in thousands):




 
  
  Year
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Triple-net
  Leased
  
  
   
  
  
  Operating
  Properties
  
  
   
  
  
  Total
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  4,903
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  10,299
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  15,202
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  8,106
  
  
   
  
  
  12,700
  
  
   
  
  
  20,806
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  17,068
  
  
   
  
  
  20,304
  
  
   
  
  
  37,372
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2009
  
  
   
  
  
  50,643
  
  
   
  
  
  15,133
  
  
   
  
  
  65,776
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2010
  
  
   
  
  
  16,268
  
  
   
  
  
  12,568
  
  
   
  
  
  28,836
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Thereafter
  
  
   
  
  
  207,607
  
  
   
  
  
  35,759
  
  
   
  
  
  243,366
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  304,605
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  106,753
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  411,358
  
  
   
  
 




 

Development
Properties:

We generally commit to
development projects when they are at least 50% pre-leased. We use internal and
external construction management expertise to evaluate local market conditions,
construction costs and other factors to seek appropriate risk adjusted returns.
During 2005, we completed and placed into service approximately $5 million of
owned development properties. In addition, during 2005, HCP MOP completed and
placed into service approximately $8 million of development properties. As of December 31,
2005, we have an interest in four properties under development.

Secured Loan
Investments

We have investments in 13
mortgage loans secured by 25 properties that are owned and operated by 11 healthcare
providers. Our secured loan investments typically consist of senior mortgages
or mezzanine financing on individual properties or a pool of properties. At December 31,
2005, the carrying amount of these mortgage loans totaled $175.4 million.
Initial interest rates on mortgage loans outstanding at December 31, 2005
range from 7.5% to 13.5% per annum. At December 31, 2005, minimum future
principal payments to be received on secured loans receivable are $66.5 million
in 2006, $8.8 million in 2007, $2.4 million in 2008, $7.2 million in 2009,
$39.8 million in 2010, and $50.7 million thereafter. Our mortgage loans
generally include prepayment penalties or yield maintenance provisions.


 10 





Operator Concentration

The
following table provides information about the concentration of business with
our top five operators for the year ended December 31, 2005 (dollars in
thousands):




 
  
  Operators
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Facilities
  
  
   
  
  
  Investment(1)
  
  
   
  
  
  Percentage
  of Revenue
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Tenet Healthcare
  Corporation (NYSE:THC) (“Tenet”)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  8
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  423,497
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  11
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  American
  Retirement Corporation (NYSE:ARC) (“ARC”)  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  15
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  399,854
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  9
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Emeritus
  Corporation (AMEX:ESC) (“Emeritus”)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  36
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  245,775
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  6
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Kindred
  Healthcare, Inc. (NASDAQ:KIND)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  20
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  79,554
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  4
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  HealthSouth Corporation
  (OTC:HLSH.PK) (“HealthSouth”)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  9
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  108,301
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  3
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 






(1)          Represents the carrying
amount of real estate assets, including intangibles, after adding back
accumulated depreciation and amortization.

All of our properties
associated with the aforementioned operators are under triple-net leases. These
operators are subject to the informational filing requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are required to file periodic
reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Financial and other
information relating to these operators may be obtained from their public
reports.

According to public
disclosures by Tenet and HealthSouth, each is experiencing various legal,
financial, and regulatory difficulties. We cannot predict with certainty the
impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on their financial
condition. The failure or inability of these operators to pay their obligations
could materially reduce our revenues, net income and cash flows, which could in
turn reduce the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends, cause
our stock price to decline and cause us to incur impairment charges or a loss
on the sale of the properties.

One of our hospitals
located in Tarzana, California is operated by Tenet and is affected by State of
California Senate Bill 1953, which requires certain seismic safety building
standards for acute care hospital facilities. See “Government Regulation—California
Senate Bill 1953” for more information.

Joint Ventures

Consolidated Joint Ventures

At December 31,
2005, we held ownership interests in 22 consolidated limited liability
companies and partnerships that together own 91 properties and one mortgage as
follows:

·       A
77% interest in Health Care Property Partners, which owns two hospitals, 13
skilled nursing facilities and has one mortgage on a skilled nursing facility.

·       Interests
varying between 90% and 97% in six partnerships (HCPI/San Antonio Ltd.
Partnership; HCPI/Colorado Springs Ltd. Partnership; HCPI/Little Rock Ltd.
Partnership; HCPI/Kansas Ltd. Partnership; Fayetteville Health Associates Ltd.
Partnership; and Wichita Health Associates Ltd. Partnership), that each of
which own a hospital.

·       A
90% interest in three limited liability companies (ARC La Barc Real Estate
Holdings, LLC; ARC Holland Real Estate Holdings, LLC; and ARC Sun City Real
Estate Holdings, LLC) that each own a senior housing facility.

·       An
80% interest in five limited liability companies (Vista-Cal Associates, LLC;
Statesboro Associates, LLC; Ft. Worth-Cal Associates, LLC; Perris-Cal
Associates, LLC; and Louisiana-Two Associates, LLC) that own a total of six
skilled nursing facilities.


 11 





·       A
93% interest in HCPI/Sorrento, LLC, which owns a life science facility.

·       A
94% interest in HCPI/Indiana, LLC, which owns six medical office buildings.

·       A
28% interest in HCPI/Tennessee, LLC, which owns 14 medical office buildings and
one assisted living facility.

·       A
70% interest in HCPI/Utah, LLC, which owns 18 medical office buildings.

·       A
66% interest in HCPI/Utah II, LLC, which owns eight medical office buildings
and eight other healthcare facilities.

·       A
72% interest in HCP DR California, LLC, which owns four independent and
assisted living facilities.

·       An initial 100% interest in
HCPI/Idaho Falls, LLC, which owns one hospital.

Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

At December 31,
2005, we held ownership interests in five unconsolidated limited liability
companies and partnerships that together own 97 properties as follows:

·       A
33% interest in HCP MOP which owns 93 medical office buildings. At December 31,
2005, 30 assets owned by HPC MOP were
held for sale and classified as discontinued operations.

·       A 45% to 50% interest in
each of four limited liability companies (Seminole Shores Living Center, LLC—50%,
Edgewood Assisted Living Center, LLC—45%, Arborwood Living Center, LLC—45%, and
Greenleaf Living Center, LLC—45%) that each own an assisted living facility.

Taxation of HCP

We believe that we have
operated in such a manner as to qualify for taxation as a REIT under Sections
856 to 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”),
commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1985, and we intend to
continue to operate in such a manner. No assurance can be given that we have
operated or will be able to continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or
to remain so qualified. This summary is qualified in its entirety by the
applicable Code provisions, rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,
and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof.

If we qualify for taxation
as a REIT, we will generally not be required to pay federal corporate income
taxes on the portion of our net income that is currently distributed to
stockholders. This treatment substantially eliminates the “double taxation”
(i.e., at the corporate and stockholder levels) that generally results from
investment in a corporation. However, we will be required to pay federal income
tax under certain circumstances.

The Code defines a REIT as
a corporation, trust or association (i) which is managed by one or more
trustees or directors; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced
by transferable shares, or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;
(iii) which would be taxable, but for Sections 856 through 860 of the
Code, as a domestic corporation; (iv) which is neither a financial
institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code;
(v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons;
(vi) during the last half of each taxable year not more than 50% in value
of the outstanding stock of which is owned, actually or constructively, by five
or fewer individuals; and (vii) which meets certain other tests, described
below, regarding the amount of its distributions and the nature of its income
and assets. The Code provides that conditions (i) to (iv), inclusive, must
be met during the entire taxable year and that condition (v) must be met
during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a
proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months.


 12










There are presently two gross income requirements.
First, at least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from “prohibited
transactions” as defined below) for each taxable year must be derived directly
or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real
property or from certain types of temporary investment income. Second, at least
95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions)
for each taxable year must be derived from income that qualifies under the 75%
test and all other dividends, interest and gain from the sale or other
disposition of stock or securities. A “prohibited transaction” is a sale or
other disposition of property (other than foreclosure property) held for sale
to customers in the ordinary course of business.

At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we
must also satisfy four tests relating to the nature of our assets. First, at
least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate
assets, certain stock or debt instruments purchased with the proceeds of a
stock offering or long term public debt offering by us (but only for the
one-year period after such offering), cash, cash items and government
securities. Second, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by
securities other than those in the 75% asset class. Third, of the investments
included in the 25% asset class, the value of any one issuer’s securities owned
by us may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets and we may not own
more than 10% of the vote or value of the securities of a non-REIT corporation,
other than certain debt securities and interests in taxable REIT subsidiaries
or qualified REIT subsidiaries, each as defined below. Fourth, not more than
20% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or
more taxable REIT subsidiaries.

We own interests in various partnerships and limited
liability companies. In the case of a REIT that is a partner in a partnership
or a member of a limited liability company that is treated as a partnership
under the Code, Treasury Regulations provide that for purposes of the REIT
income and asset tests, the REIT will be deemed to own its proportionate share
of the assets of the partnership or limited liability company (determined in
accordance with its capital interest in the entity), subject to special rules related
to the 10% asset test, and will be deemed to be entitled to the income of the
partnership or limited liability company attributable to such share. The
ownership of an interest in a partnership or limited liability company by a
REIT may involve special tax risks, including the challenge by the Internal
Revenue Service (the “Service”) of the allocations of income and expense items
of the partnership or limited liability company, which would affect the
computation of taxable income of the REIT, and the status of the partnership or
limited liability company as a partnership (as opposed to an association
taxable as a corporation) for federal income tax purposes.

We also own interests in a number of subsidiaries
which are intended to be treated as qualified REIT subsidiaries (each a “QRS”).
The Code provides that such subsidiaries will be ignored for federal income tax
purposes and all assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit
of such subsidiaries will be treated as our assets, liabilities and such items.
If any partnership, limited liability company, or subsidiary in which we own an
interest were treated as a regular corporation (and not as a partnership, QRS
or taxable REIT subsidiary, as the case may be) for federal income tax
purposes, we would likely fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests described above
and would therefore fail to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions
apply. We believe that each of the partnerships, limited liability companies,
and subsidiaries (other than taxable REIT subsidiaries) in which we own an
interest will be treated for tax purposes as a partnership, or disregarded
entity (in the case of a 100% owned partnership or limited liability company)
or QRS, as applicable, although no assurance can be given that the Service will
not successfully challenge the status of any such organization.

As of December 31,
2005, we owned interests in two subsidiaries which are intended to be treated
as taxable REIT subsidiaries (each a “TRS”). A REIT may own any percentage of
the voting stock and value of the securities of a corporation which jointly
elects with the REIT to be a TRS, provided certain requirements are met. A TRS
generally may engage in any business, including the provision of customary or
noncustomary services to tenants of its parent REIT and of others, except a TRS
may not manage or 


 13 





operate
a hotel or healthcare facility. A TRS is treated as a regular corporation and
is subject to federal income tax and applicable state income and franchise
taxes at regular corporate rates. In addition, a 100% tax may be imposed on a
REIT if its rental, service or other agreements with its TRS, or the TRS’s
agreements with the REIT’s tenants, are not on arm’s-length terms.

In order to qualify as a
REIT, we are required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain
dividends) to our stockholders in an amount at least equal to (A) the sum
of (i) 90% of our “real estate investment trust taxable income” (computed
without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90%
of the net income, if any (after tax), from foreclosure property, minus (B) the
sum of certain items of non-cash income. Such distributions must be paid in the
taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared
before we timely file our tax return for such year, if paid on or before the
first regular dividend payment date after such declaration and if we so elect
and specify the dollar amount in our tax return. To the extent that we do not
distribute all of our net long-term capital gain or distribute at least 90%,
but less than 100%, of our “real estate investment trust taxable income”, as
adjusted, we will be required to pay tax thereon at regular corporate tax
rates. Furthermore, if we should fail to distribute during each calendar year
at least the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for such year, (ii) 95%
of our capital gain income for such year, and (iii) any undistributed
taxable income from prior periods, we would be required to pay a 4% excise tax
on the excess of such required distributions over the amounts actually
distributed.

If we fail to qualify for
taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, and certain relief provisions do not
apply, we will be required to pay tax (including any applicable alternative
minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to
stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify will not be deductible by
us nor will they be required to be made. Unless entitled to relief under
specific statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from taxation as a
REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification
was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be
entitled to the statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could
substantially reduce distributions to stockholders and could result in our
incurring substantial indebtedness (to the extent borrowings are feasible) or
liquidating substantial investments in order to pay the resulting taxes.

We and our stockholders
may be required to pay state or local tax in various state or local
jurisdictions, including those in which we or they transact business or reside.
The state and local tax treatment of us and our stockholders may not conform to
the federal income tax consequences discussed above.

We may also be subject to
certain taxes applicable to REITs, including taxes in lieu of disqualification
as a REIT, on undistributed income, on income from prohibited transactions, on
net income from foreclosure property and on built-in gains from the sale of
certain assets acquired from C corporations in tax-free transactions.

Government Regulation

The
healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local laws. This
government regulation of the healthcare industry affects us because:

(1)         Governmental
regulations such as licensure, certification for participation in government programs,
and government reimbursement may impact the financial ability of some of our
operators to make rent and debt payments to us, which in turn may affect the
value of our investments, and

(2)         The
amount of reimbursement such operators receive from the government and other
third parties may affect the amounts we receive in additional rents, which are
often based on our operators’ gross revenue from operations.


 14 





These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and
substantial changes resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and
regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law.
These changes may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or
impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and
the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. These
changes may be applied retroactively. The ultimate timing or effect of these
changes cannot be predicted. The failure of any tenant or borrower to comply
with such laws, regulations and requirements could affect its ability to
operate its facility or facilities and could adversely affect such operator’s
ability to make lease or debt payments to us.

Fraud and Abuse Laws.   There
are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraud and abusive business
practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or
are in a position to make referrals in connection with a government-sponsored
healthcare program, including, but not limited to, the Medicare and Medicaid
programs. These include:

·       The
Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer,
payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or
to induce, the referral of Medicare and Medicaid patients.

·       The
Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition (Stark), which restricts physicians
from making referrals for certain designated health services for which payment
may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the
physician (or an immediate family member) has a financial relationship.

·       The
False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or
fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government (including the Medicare
and Medicaid programs).

·       The
Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which is imposed by the Department of Health and
Human Services for fraudulent acts.

Each of these laws include criminal and/or civil
penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage
assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments,
and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Imposition of any of
these types of penalties on our tenants or borrowers could result in a material
adverse effect on their operations, which could adversely affect our business.
Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals
to bring qui tam (whistleblower)
actions on behalf of the government for violations of fraud and abuse laws.
Some Medicare fiscal intermediaries (private companies that contract with
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) to administer the
Medicare program) have also increased scrutiny of cost reports filed by skilled
nursing providers.

Environmental
Matters.   A wide variety of federal, state and
local environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations
affect healthcare facility operations. Under various federal, state and local
environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a
secured lender (such as us) may be liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in
connection with such property, as well as other potential costs relating to
hazardous or toxic substances (including government fines and damages for
injuries to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required
remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner’s or
secured lender’s liability therefore could exceed the value of the property,
and/or the assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence of
such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such
substances, may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or rent such
property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, would
reduce our revenue. Although the mortgage loans that we provide and the leases
covering our properties require the borrower and the tenant to indemnify us for
certain environmental liabilities, the scope of such obligations may be 


 15 





limited and we cannot
assure that any such borrower or tenant would be able to fulfill its
indemnification obligations.

The
Medicare and Medicaid Programs.   Sources of
revenue for operators may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid
programs, private insurance carriers, healthcare service plans and health
maintenance organizations, among others. Efforts to reduce costs by these
payors will likely continue, which may result in reduced or slower growth in
reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our operators. In
addition, the failure of any of our operators to comply with various laws and
regulations could jeopardize their certification and ability to continue to
participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Medicaid programs differ
from state to state but they are all subject to federally-imposed requirements.
At least 50% of the funds available under these programs are provided by the
federal government under a matching program. Medicaid programs generally pay
for acute and rehabilitative care based on reasonable costs at fixed rates;
skilled nursing facilities are generally reimbursed using fixed daily rates.
Medicaid payments are generally below retail rates for tenant-operated facilities.
Increasingly, states have introduced managed care contracting techniques into
the administration of Medicaid programs. Such mechanisms could have the impact
of reducing utilization of and reimbursement to facilities. Other third party
payors in various states base payments on costs, retail rates or, increasingly,
negotiated rates. Negotiated rates can include discounts from normal charges,
fixed daily rates and prepaid capitated rates.

Healthcare
Facilities.   The healthcare facilities in our
portfolio, including hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, assisted living
facilities, and physician group practice clinics, are subject to extensive
federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and
regulations. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of
accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or
decertification from federal and state healthcare programs, loss of license or
closure of the facility. Such actions may have an effect on the revenue of the
operators of properties owned by or mortgaged to us and therefore adversely
impact us.

Entrance
Fee Communities.   Certain of the senior housing
facilities mortgaged to or owned by us are operated as entrance fee
communities. Generally, an entrance fee is an upfront fee or consideration paid
by a resident, a portion of which may be refundable, in exchange for some form
of long-term benefit. Some of the entrance fee communities are subject to
significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of
each facility’s financial condition, establishment and monitoring of reserve
requirements and other financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel
their contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in favor of the
residents, restrictions on change of ownership and similar matters. Such
oversight and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities may
have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities
and therefore may adversely impact us.

California
Senate Bill 1953.   Our hospital located in
Tarzana, California is affected by State of California Senate Bill 1953 (SB
1953), which requires certain seismic safety building standards for acute care
hospital facilities. This hospital is operated by Tenet under a lease expiring
in February 2009. We and Tenet are currently reviewing the SB 1953
compliance of this hospital, multiple plans of action to cause such compliance,
the estimated time for completing the same, and the cost of performing
necessary remediation of the property. We cannot currently estimate the
remediation costs that will need to be incurred prior to 2013 in order to make
the facility SB 1953-compliant through 2030, or the final allocation of
any remediation costs between us and Tenet. Rent on the hospital in 2005 and
2004 was $10.8 million and $10.6 million, respectively, and our carrying amount
is $76.1 million at December 31, 2005.

Nurse Staffing Ratios.   On
January 1, 2004, a California law became effective mandating specific
minimum nurse staffing ratios for acute care hospitals. As a result of this
requirement, hospital labor costs will be materially increased. Facilities may
also be forced to limit patient admissions due to an inability to 


 16 





hire the necessary
number of nurses to meet the required ratio, which affects net operating
revenue. It is unclear the extent to which compliance with these nurse staffing
ratios in California may adversely affect hospital operators in California.

Current Developments

The healthcare industry continues to face various
challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on
healthcare providers to control costs, the migration of patients from acute
care facilities into extended care and home care settings, and the vertical and
horizontal consolidation of healthcare providers.

Changes in the law, new interpretations of existing
laws, and changes in payment methodologies may have a dramatic effect on the definition
of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with
doing business and the amount of reimbursement furnished by government and
other third-party payors. These changes may be applied retroactively under
certain circumstances. The ultimate timing or effect of legislative efforts
cannot be predicted and may impact us in different ways.

In December of 2003, the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “Act”) was signed into
law. The Act established an 18-month moratorium on the “whole hospital
exception” to the Stark law, whereby physicians have been permitted to refer
patients for Designated Health Services to hospitals in which they have an
ownership interest. The moratorium removed specialty hospitals from the “whole
hospital exception” from December 8, 2003 through June 7, 2005.
Specialty hospitals include hospitals primarily or exclusively engaged in the
care and treatment of cardiac conditions or orthopedic conditions, or hospitals
that perform certain surgical procedures. Specialty hospitals in operation or
under development as of November 18, 2003 were grandfathered under the
moratorium. The Act requires that MedPAC, an independent federal body
established to advise Congress on issues affecting the Medicare program, and
HHS conduct studies on the costs of service, utilization, quality of care and
financial impact of specialty hospitals and their physician owners relative to
community hospitals, particularly nonprofits. On January 14, 2005 MedPAC
announced that it would recommend that Congress extend the Stark specialty
hospital moratorium for an additional 18 months to January 1, 2007, to
address concerns about the effects of physician investments in specialty
hospitals. MedPAC’s recommendations were based upon its findings that when
compared with community hospitals, physician owned specialty hospitals tend to
concentrate on certain more profitable Diagnostic Related Groups (“DRGs”) and
on patients with relatively low severity within those DRGs, and tend to treat
lower percentages of Medicare patients. Congress is not obligated to follow
MedPAC’s recommendations. Legislation has been introduced in Congress (The
Hospital Fair Competition Act of 2005) that would extend the moratorium for
specialty hospitals. It is uncertain if such legislation will be enacted this
year or in subsequent sessions of Congress. Notwithstanding the uncertainty of
legislation extending the moratorium, CMS instructed Medicare Fiscal
Intermediaries to stop processing new Medicare provider enrollment applications
for specialty hospitals after June 8, 2005, pending CMS’s review of how
specialty hospitals satisfy core requirements applicable to “hospitals” under
Medicare, and how the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act should
apply to specialty hospitals. CMS expects to complete its review in early 2006,
with further changes in 2006 to the hospital inpatient prospective payment
system to reduce the ability of specialty hospitals to take advantage of
imprecise payment rates under the current system.

In addition to the reforms enacted and considered by
Congress from time to time, state legislatures periodically consider various
healthcare reform proposals. Congress and state legislatures can be expected to
continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems, new
regulatory enforcement initiatives, and new payment methodologies.

We believe that government
and private efforts to contain or reduce healthcare costs will continue. These
trends are likely to lead to reduced or slower growth in reimbursement for
certain services provided 


 17 





by some
of our operators. In addition, recent trends of hospitals providing more
services to uninsured patients or on an outpatient basis rather than inpatient
basis may continue and could adversely affect the profitability of our
operators. We believe that the vast nature of the healthcare industry, the
financial strength and operating flexibility of our operators, and the
diversity of our portfolio will mitigate the impact of any such trends.
However, we cannot predict what legislation will be adopted, and no assurance
can be given that the healthcare reforms will not have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

Employees

At December 31, 2005,
we had 83 full-time employees and no part-time employees, none of whom are
subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with
our employees to be good.

Legal Entities

We
conduct our business through various legal entities, including the following at
December 31, 2005:





  
   
   100% Owned
   
   
    
   
   
    
   
   
    
   
   
   Consolidated Joint Ventures
   
   
    
   
   
   Unconsolidated Joint Ventures
   
  

 
  
  AHP of Nevada, Inc.
  AHP of Washington, Inc.
  ARC Richmond Place Real Estate Holdings, LLC
  Birmingham HCP, LLC
  Emeritus Realty V, LLC
  ESC-La Casa Grande, LLC
  Health Care Investors III
  HCP 1101 Madison MOB, LLC
  HCP 600 Broadway MOB, LLC
  HCP AL of Florida, LLC
  HCP Acquisitions, LLC
  HCP Arnold MOB, LLC
  HCP Ballard MOB, LLC
  HCP Birmingham Portfolio, LLC
  HCP Cullman MOB GP, LLC
  Cullman POB Partners I, Ltd.
  Cullman POB II, LLC
  HCP Cullman MOB GP, LLC
  HCP Cityview I, L.P.
  HCP Cityview II, L.P.
  HCP EGP, Inc.
  HCP Kirkland, LLC
  HCP Louisville, Inc.
  Faulkner Hinton Suburban I, LLC
  Faulkner Hinton Suburban II, LLC
  HCP Medical Office Buildings I, LLC
  HCP Medical Office Buildings II, LLC
  HCP MOP Member, LLC
  
  
   
  
  
  ARC Holland Real
  Estate Holdings, LLC
  ARC LaBarc Real
  Estate Holdings LLC
  ARC Sun City Real
  Estate Holdings, LLC
  Fayetteville
  Health Associates Limited Partnership
  Ft. Worth-Cal
  Associates, LLC
  HCP DR
  California, LLC
  HCP Pleasant, LLC
  HCPI/Colorado
  Springs Ltd. Partnership
  HCP CTE, L.P.
  HCP ETE, L.P.
  HCPI/Idaho Falls
  LLC
  HCPI/Indiana, LLC
  HCPI/Kansas
  Limited Partnership
  HCPI/Little Rock
  Limited Partnership
  HCPI/San Antonio
  Limited Partnership
  HCPI/Sorrento,
  LLC 
  HCPI/Tennessee,
  LLC
  MOB of Denver 1, LLC
  MOB of Denver 2, LLC
  MOB of Denver 3, LLC
  MOB of Denver 4, LLC
  MOB of Denver 5, LLC
  MOB of Denver 6, LLC
  MOB of Denver 7, LLC
  Medical Office
  Buildings of California LLC
  
  
   
  
  
  Arborwood Living
  Center, LLC
  Edgewood Assisted
  Living Center, LLC
  Greenleaf Living
  Centers, LLC
  HCP Medical
  Office Portfolio, LLC
  Seminole Shores
  Living Center, LLC
  
 





 18 





 




 
  
  HCP NE Retail MOB, LLC 
  HCP Shore, LLC
  HCP TRS, Inc.
  Medical Office Buildings of Reston, LLC
  HCPI Knightdale, Inc.
  HCPI Mortgage Corp.
  HCPI Trust
  HCP Virginia, Inc.
  Jackson HCP, LLC
  McKinney HCP GP, LLC
  McKinney HCP, L.P.
  Meadowdome, LLC
  Medcap HCPI Development, LLC
  Aurora HCP, LLC
  HCP Owasso MOB, LLC
  Medical Office Buildings of Colorado II, LLC
  Medical Office Buildings of Nevada-Southern Hills,
  LLC
  Mission Springs AL, LLC
  Overland Park AL, LLC
  Tampa HCP, LLC 
  Texas HCP G.P., Inc.
  Texas HCP Holding, L.P.
  Texas HCP Medical G.P., Inc.
  Texas HCP Medical Office Buildings, L.P.
  Texas HCP, Inc.
  
  
   
  
  
  Medical Office
  Buildings of Utah LLC
  Westminster HCP,
  LLC
  HCPI/Utah, LLC
  Davis North I, LLC
  HCPI/Utah II, LLC
  HCPI/Stansbury, LLC
  HCPI/Wesley, LLC
  Health Care
  Property Partners
  Louisiana-Two
  Associates, LLC
  Perris-Cal
  Associates, LLC
  Statesboro
  Associates, LLC
  Vista-Cal
  Associates, LLC
  Wichita Health
  Associates Limited Partnership
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 




 

ITEM 1A.        Risk
Factors

You should
carefully consider the risks described below as well as the risks described in
“Competition,” “Government Regulation,” and “Taxation of HCP” and elsewhere in
this report, which risks are incorporated by reference into this section,
before making an investment decision regarding our company. The risks and
uncertainties described herein are not the only ones facing us and there may be
additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently consider
not likely to have a significant impact. All of these risks could adversely
affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Risks
Related to Our Operators

If our facility operators are unable to operate our
properties in a manner sufficient to generate income, they may be unable to
make rent and loan payments to us.

The healthcare industry is
highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the
future. Our operators are subject to competition from other healthcare
providers that provide similar services. Such competition, which has
intensified due to overbuilding in some segments in which we operate, has
caused the fill-up rate of newly constructed buildings to slow and the monthly
rate that many newly built and previously existing facilities were able to
obtain for their services to decrease. The profitability of healthcare
facilities depends upon several factors, including the number of physicians
using 


 19 





the
healthcare facilities or referring patients there, competitive systems of
healthcare delivery and the size and composition of the population in the
surrounding area. Private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of
other laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the
revenues and income of the properties. If our operators are not competitive
with other healthcare providers and are unable to generate income, they may be
unable to make rent and loan payments to us, which could adversely affect our
cash flow and financial performance and condition.

The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration
of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect
unpaid rents or require us to find new operators.

Our financial position and
our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected
by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including
bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event
any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as
their lease terms expire.

We are exposed to the risk
that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result
in their bankruptcy or insolvency. Although our leases and loans provide us the
right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment
and other remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that
has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be
able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the
bankruptcy proceeding.

Tenet Healthcare Corporation accounts for a
significant percentage of our revenues and is currently experiencing significant
legal, financial and regulatory difficulties.

During 2005, Tenet
Healthcare Corporation accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues.
According to public disclosures, Tenet is experiencing significant legal,
financial and regulatory difficulties. We cannot predict with certainty the
impact, if any, of the outcome of these uncertainties on our consolidated
financial statements. The failure or inability of Tenet to pay its obligations
could materially reduce our revenue, net income and cash flows, which could
adversely affect the value of our common stock and could cause us to incur
impairment charges or a loss on the sale of the properties.

Our operators are faced with increased litigation and
rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or
mortgage payments.

In some states, advocacy
groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare
facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also,
in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning
very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and
potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring
and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by our operators. In
addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased
and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment
affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost
increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or
mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our
collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to
take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be
reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time.

Decline in the skilled nursing sector and changes to
Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates may have significant adverse
consequences to us.

Certain of our skilled
nursing operators and facilities continue to experience operating problems in
part due to a national nursing shortage, increased liability insurance costs,
and low levels of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. Due to economic challenges
facing many states, nursing homes will likely continue to be under-funded.
These challenges have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our
long-term care facilities and facility operators.


 20










Risks
Related to Real Estate Investment and Our Structure

We rely on external
sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if our access to such
capital is difficult or on commercially unreasonable terms, we may not be able
to meet maturing commitments or make future investments necessary to grow our
business.

In order to qualify
as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we are required, among other things,
to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable
income. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund
all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with
acquisitions, from cash retained from operations. As a result, we rely on
external sources of capital. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all
or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make
the investments needed to grow our business, or to meet our obligations and
commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the ratings of our
debt and even, in extreme circumstances, affect our ability to continue
operations. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which
we have little or no control, including:

·       general
market conditions;

·       the
market’s perception of our growth potential;

·       our
current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and

·       the market price of the
shares of our capital stock.

If we are unable to
identify and purchase suitable healthcare facilities at a favorable cost, we
will be unable to continue to grow through acquisitions.

Our ability to grow
through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to
identify suitable acquisition candidates that meet our criteria and are
compatible with our growth strategy. The acquisition and financing of
healthcare facilities at favorable costs is highly competitive. We may not be
successful in identifying suitable property or other assets that meet our
acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at
all. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare
facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such
acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business will suffer.

Unforeseen costs
associated with the acquisition of new properties could reduce our
profitability.

Our business strategy
contemplates future acquisitions. The acquisitions we make may not prove to be
successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures
relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities. Further,
newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that
would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the
anticipated benefits of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our
profitability.

Since real estate
investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell properties when we desire.

Real estate
investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our
portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. This
inability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments could
adversely affect our ability to service our debt. The real estate market is
affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including:

·       adverse
changes in national and local economic and market conditions;

·       changes
in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing;

·       changes
in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances
and costs of compliance with laws and regulations;


 21 





·       the
ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures;

·       changes
in operating expenses; and

·       civil
unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods,
which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses.

We cannot predict whether
we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us,
or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be
acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a
willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. In addition, there are
provisions under the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs that may limit
our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets.
These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to
adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material
adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.

Transfers of
healthcare facilities generally require regulatory approvals, and alternative
uses of healthcare facilities are limited.

Because transfers of
healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for
transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real
estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to
successor operators or we may be prohibited from transferring operations to a
successor operator. In addition, substantially all of our properties are
healthcare facilities that may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare related
uses. If we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our
revenue and operations may suffer.

We may experience
uninsured or underinsured losses.

We generally require our
operators to secure and maintain comprehensive liability and property insurance
that covers us, as well as the operators, on most of our properties. Some types
of losses, however, either may be uninsurable or too expensive to insure
against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur,
we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property,
as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In such an event,
we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial
obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses
in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future.

Increases in
interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash
flow and our ability to service our indebtedness.

At December 31, 2005,
our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $2.0 billion, of
which approximately $295 million, or 15%, is subject to variable interest
rates. This variable rate debt had a weighted average interest rate of
approximately 5.0% per annum. Increases in interest rates on this variable rate
debt would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and
our ability to service our indebtedness.

Loss of our tax
status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us.

We currently operate and have operated commencing with
our taxable year ended December 31, 1985 in a manner that is intended to
allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of
highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there
are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination
of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control
may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify
as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income 


 22 





in any year must be
derived from qualifying sources, and we must satisfy a number of requirements
regarding the composition of our assets. Also, we must make distributions to
stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income,
excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations,
administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our
investors or our ability to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. Although we
believe that we have been organized and have operated in such manner, we can
give no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT
for tax purposes.

If we lose our REIT
status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce
the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt
securities we issue and to make distributions to our stockholders. If we fail
to qualify as a REIT:

·       we
would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing
our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular
corporate rates;

·       we
also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

·       unless
we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be
subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which
we were disqualified.

In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all
distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax as regular corporate
dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and
we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders.

As a result of all these
factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to
expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of
our common stock.

ITEM 1B