Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”


 


    Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are
    made, and we do not undertake to update such statements other
    than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any
    further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic
    filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”).


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business.





 



    Introduction


 


    The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home
    improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year
    ended February 1, 2009 (“fiscal 2008”). The Home
    Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home
    improvement and lawn and garden products and provide a number of
    services. The Home Depot stores average approximately
    105,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately
    24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the
    end of fiscal 2008, we had 2,233 The Home Depot stores located
    throughout the United States including the Commonwealth of
    Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands
    and Guam (“U.S.”), Canada, China and Mexico. In
    addition, at the end of fiscal 2008, the Company operated 34
    EXPO Design Center stores, two THD Design Center stores and five
    Yardbirds stores. On January 26, 2009, we announced the
    planned closing of our EXPO, THD Design Center and Yardbirds
    stores as part of our focus on our core business.


 


    The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was
    incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate
    office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta,
    Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is
    (770) 433-8211.


 


    We maintain an Internet website at www.homedepot.com. We make
    available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to
    shareholders, Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K,
    Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably
    practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such
    documents to, the SEC.


 


    We include our website addresses throughout this filing only as
    textual references. The information contained on our websites is
    not incorporated by reference into this report.



    
    1



Table of Contents





    Our
    Business


 


    Operating Strategy.  In fiscal 2008,
    despite the continuing difficult economic environment, we
    continued to focus on our core retail business, investing in our
    associates and stores and improving our customer service. We
    shifted our focus from new square footage growth to maximizing
    the productivity of our existing store base. During the year, we
    implemented significant changes in our store operations to make
    them simpler, more consistent and more customer-focused. We
    shifted associate hours to be more customer facing and refocused
    our efforts on offering every day values in the stores.
    Additionally, we made several strategic decisions which are
    intended to optimize our capital allocation, concentrate our
    efforts on our core business and create long-term value for our
    shareholders, including our decision to close 15 stores, remove
    approximately 50 stores from our new store pipeline and exit our
    EXPO, THD Design Center, Yardbirds and HD Bath businesses.


 


    Customers.  The Home Depot stores serve
    three primary customer groups:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Do-It-Yourself (“D-I-Y”)
    Customers:  These customers are typically home
    owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and
    installations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Do-It-For-Me (“D-I-F-M”)
    Customers:  These customers are typically home
    owners who purchase materials themselves and hire third parties
    to complete the project or installation, or both. We arrange for
    the installation of a variety of The Home Depot products through
    qualified independent contractors.




 



     
        • 

    
    Professional Customers:  These customers are
    professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small
    business owners and tradesmen. In many stores, we offer a
    variety of programs to these customers, including delivery and
    will-call services, dedicated staff, extensive merchandise
    selections and expanded credit programs, all of which we believe
    increase sales to these customers.





 


    Products.  A typical Home Depot store
    stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year,
    including both national brand name and proprietary items. The
    following table shows the percentage of Net Sales of each major
    product group (and related services) for each of the last three
    fiscal years:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Percentage of Net Sales for Fiscal Year Ended




 


 


    February 1,
    


 


    February 3,
    


 


    January 28,
    





    Product Group



 


    2009


 


    2008


 


    2007



 





    Plumbing, electrical and kitchen



 


 


    30.6


    %


 


 


    31.0


    %


 


 


    30.8


    %





    Hardware and seasonal



 


 


    28.7


 


 


 


    28.0


 


 


 


    27.0


 





    Building materials, lumber and millwork



 


 


    22.1


 


 


 


    22.3


 


 


 


    23.6


 





    Paint and flooring



 


 


    18.6


 


 


 


    18.7


 


 


 


    18.6


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    100.0


    %


 


 


    100.0


    %


 


 


    100.0


    %




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    In fiscal 2008, we reduced our inventory while maintaining a
    favorable in-stock rate. We also reduced a number of one-time
    discount promotions and refocused our efforts on offering every
    day values. We continued to introduce innovative and distinctive
    products to our customers, including
    Thomasville®

    deep seating patio furniture,
    Charbroil®

    infrared grills,
    RIDGID®

    pressure washers and
    Homelite®

    trimmers.


 


    To complement and enhance our product selection, we have formed
    strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected
    suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized
    brand names. During fiscal 2008, we offered a number of
    proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of
    departments including, but not limited to, Behr Premium
    Plus®

    paint, Hampton
    Bay®

    lighting,
    Vigoro®

    lawn care products,
    Husky®

    hand tools,
    RIDGID®

    and
    Ryobi®

    power tools,
    Pegasus®

    faucets, and Glacier
    Bay®

    bath fixtures. We may consider additional strategic alliances
    and relationships with other suppliers and will continue to
    assess opportunities to expand the range of products available
    under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.


 


    From our Store Support Center we maintain a global sourcing
    merchandise program to source high-quality products directly
    from manufacturers around the world. Our Product Development
    Merchants identify and purchase market leading innovative
    products directly for our stores. Additionally, we have three
    sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities of Shanghai,
    Shenzhen and Dalian, and offices in Gurgaon, India; Milan,
    Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada.



    
    2



Table of Contents




    Services.  Our stores offer a variety of
    installation services. These services target D-I-F-M customers
    who select and purchase products and installation of those
    products from us. These installation programs include products
    such as carpeting, flooring, cabinets, countertops and water
    heaters. In addition, we provide professional installation of a
    number of products sold through our in-home sales programs, such
    as generators and furnace and central air systems.


 



    Store
    Growth


 


    United States.  At the end of fiscal 2008, we
    were operating 1,971 The Home Depot stores in the U.S.,
    including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of
    the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. During fiscal 2008, we
    opened 41 new The Home Depot stores, including five relocations,
    in the U.S.


 


    Canada.  At the end of fiscal 2008, we were
    operating 176 The Home Depot stores in ten Canadian provinces.
    Of these stores, 12 were opened during fiscal 2008, including
    one relocation.


 


    Mexico.  At the end of fiscal 2008, we were
    operating 74 The Home Depot stores in Mexico. Of these stores,
    nine were opened during fiscal 2008.


 


    China.  At the end of fiscal 2008, we were
    operating 12 The Home Depot stores in six Chinese cities.


 


    Certain financial information about our operations outside of
    the U.S. is reported in Note 1 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.


 



    Store
    Support Services


 


    Information Technologies.  During fiscal
    2008, we continued to make information technology investments to
    better support our customers and provide an improved overall
    shopping environment and experience. We invested in our supply
    chain and merchandising tools to improve inventory management
    capabilities and streamline our operations.


 


    We completed the deployment of a new enterprise resource
    planning (“ERP”) system to our Canadian division,
    which includes all stores and distribution centers. We will
    assess the return on investment and performance of the system in
    the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 (“fiscal
    2009”) as we evaluate alternatives for our
    U.S. application footprint.


 


    With regard to our supply chain, we implemented a new warehouse
    management system to support the U.S. and Canadian stores,
    continued implementation of a new transportation management
    system, completed a technology refresh at our distribution
    centers, and implemented improvements to our Central Automated
    Replenishment system.


 


    We made improvements to the tools utilized in merchandising
    systems in the areas of assortment management, forecasting, and
    replenishment.


 


    With our continued focus on the stores, we provided technology
    improvements designed to help store associates perform their
    tasks and improve customer service. We equipped 1,100 stores
    with new computers, registers and printers, and 920 stores
    received new paint dispensers.


 


    Credit Services.  We offer six credit
    programs through third-party credit providers to professional,
    D-I-Y and D-I-F-M customers. In fiscal 2008, approximately
    3.2 million new The Home Depot credit accounts were opened,
    and the total number of The Home Depot active account holders
    was approximately 12.5 million. Proprietary credit card
    sales accounted for approximately 28% of store sales in fiscal
    2008. In fiscal 2008, Home Depot re-negotiated and extended the
    term of the primary contracts governing the programs. The new
    contract with Citibank established a ceiling for the cost of
    credit for the program while retaining the ability for portfolio
    performance improvements to lower the cost of credit.


 


    Logistics.  Our logistics programs are
    designed to ensure product availability for customers, effective
    use of our investment in inventory and low total supply chain
    costs. At the end of fiscal 2008, we operated 30 lumber
    distribution centers, 45 conventional distribution centers and
    five transit facilities, all located in the U.S., Canada and
    Mexico. Additionally in 2008, we opened four new Rapid
    Deployment Centers (“RDC”) in the U.S., bringing our
    total number of RDCs to five. We now serve approximately 25% of
    our U.S. stores from RDCs. RDCs allow for aggregation of
    store product needs to a single purchase order, and then rapid
    allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon



    
    3



Table of Contents




    arrival at the center. This process allows improved
    transportation, simplified order processing at suppliers and
    reduced lead time from the time that product needs at stores are
    determined to actual replenishment. We plan to open additional
    RDCs during fiscal 2009 and 2010 and ultimately serve all of our
    U.S. stores from RDCs.


 


    In fiscal 2008, approximately 35% of the merchandise shipped to
    our U.S. stores flowed through our distribution facilities.
    The remaining merchandise was shipped directly from suppliers to
    our stores. The expansion of the RDC network is expected to
    increase our distribution utilization. In addition to
    replenishing merchandise at our stores, we also provide delivery
    of in-stock and special order product directly to our customers.


 


    Associates.  At the end of fiscal 2008,
    we employed approximately 322,000 associates, of whom
    approximately 22,500 were salaried, with the remainder
    compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. Approximately 65%
    of our associates are employed on a full-time basis. We believe
    that our employee relations are very good. To attract and retain
    qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and
    wage levels in each market we serve.


 


    Intellectual Property.  Through our
    wholly-owned subsidiary, Homer TLC, Inc., we have registered or
    applied for registration, in a number of countries, for a
    variety of internet domain names, service marks and trademarks
    for use in our businesses, including The Home
    Depot®;

    Hampton
    Bay®

    fans, lighting and accessories; Glacier
    Bay®

    toilets, sinks and faucets;
    Pegasus®

    faucets and bath accessories; and
    Workforce®

    tools, tool boxes and shelving. We have also obtained and now
    maintain patent portfolios relating to certain products and
    services provided by The Home Depot, and continually seek to
    patent or otherwise protect selected innovations we incorporate
    into our products and business operations. We regard our
    intellectual property as having significant value to our
    business and as being an important factor in the marketing of
    our brand,
    e-commerce,
    stores and new areas of our business.


 


    Quality Assurance Program.  We have both
    quality assurance and engineering resources who oversee the
    quality of our directly imported, globally-sourced and
    proprietary products. Through these programs, we have
    established criteria for supplier and product performance that
    are designed to ensure our products comply with federal, state
    and local quality and performance standards. These programs also
    allow us to measure and track timeliness of shipments. These
    performance records are made available to the factories to allow
    them to strive for improvement. The program addresses quality
    assurance at the factory, product and packaging levels.


 


    Environmental, Health & Safety
    (“EH&S”).  We are committed to
    maintaining a safe environment for our customers and associates
    and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do
    business. Our EH&S function in the field is directed by
    trained associates focused primarily on the execution of the
    EH&S programs. Additionally, we have a Store Support
    Center-based team of dedicated EH&S professionals who
    evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and
    programs on a Company-wide basis.


 


    Environmental.  The Home Depot is
    committed to conducting business in an environmentally
    responsible manner and this commitment impacts all areas of our
    business, including store construction and maintenance, energy
    usage, product selection and customer education.


 


    In fiscal 2008, we spent approximately $27.5 million for
    energy efficiency related projects. By replacing HVAC units in
    approximately 200 existing stores and switching to the use of
    T-5 lighting in approximately 700 existing stores, we estimate
    cumulative savings to be approximately $28 million since
    fiscal 2006. In addition, we have implemented strict operational
    standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of
    our facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation
    and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the
    largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as
    utilizing the Novar Energy Management and Alarm System in each
    store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by
    implementing and utilizing these energy saving programs we have
    avoided 1.6 billion pounds of greenhouse gas emissions
    since fiscal 2006. We believe this is equivalent to removing
    approximately 132,000 cars from the highway. In June 2008, we
    launched a nation-wide in-store compact fluorescent light bulb
    recycling program. This service is offered to all customers
    free-of-charge
    and is available in all U.S. stores, including Alaska and
    Hawaii.


 


    We have also taken additional measures to further our
    sustainability efforts. We partnered with the U.S. Green
    Building Council and have built seven Leadership in Energy and
    Environmental Design (“LEED”) green certified and
    equivalent stores. We offset the carbon emissions created by our
    facilities and a portion of those emissions created by
    business-related travel through an agreement with The
    Conservation Fund that resulted in the planting of thousands of
    trees that will help reduce the heat-island effect in urban
    areas, reduce erosion and help clean the air. Through our Eco
    Optionssm




    
    4



Table of Contents




    Program, we have created product categories that allow consumers
    to easily identify environmentally preferred product selections
    in our stores. We implemented a Supplier Social and
    Environmental Responsibility Program to ensure that our
    suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and
    environmental responsibility.


 


    Seasonality.  Our business is seasonal
    to a certain extent. Generally, our highest volume of sales
    occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume
    occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter.


 


    Competition.  Our business is highly
    competitive, based in part on price, store location, customer
    service and assortment of merchandise. In each of the markets we
    serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores,
    electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and
    lumber yards. With respect to some products, we also compete
    with discount stores, local, regional and national hardware
    stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building
    supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers. Due to
    the variety of competition we face, we are unable to precisely
    measure the impact on our sales by our competitors.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations and could cause actual results to differ
    materially from our expectations and projections. The Risk
    Factors described below include the considerable risks
    associated with the current economic environment and the
    possible adverse effects on our financial condition and results
    of operations. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction
    with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
    Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and
    related notes in Item 8. There also may be other factors
    that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this
    report, generally because we do not perceive them to be
    material. Such factors could cause results to differ materially
    from our expectations.


 



    The
    state of the housing, construction and home improvement markets,
    rising costs, a reduction in the availability of financing,
    weather and other conditions in North America could further
    adversely affect our costs of doing business, demand for our
    products and services and our financial
    performance.


 


    In 2008, the housing, residential construction and home
    improvement markets have deteriorated dramatically and more
    severely than was previously anticipated. We expect the
    deterioration to continue through 2009 and our fiscal 2009 Net
    Sales and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations
    to decline from fiscal 2008. Other factors — including
    increasing unemployment and foreclosures, interest rate
    fluctuations, fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare
    costs, the availability of financing, the state of the credit
    markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer
    credit, consumer confidence, weather, natural disasters and
    other factors beyond our control — could further
    adversely affect demand for our products and services and our
    financial performance. These and other similar factors could
    increase our costs and cause our customers to delay purchasing
    or determine not to purchase home improvement products and
    services.


 



    We
    rely on third party suppliers. If we fail to identify and
    develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified
    suppliers, or if our current suppliers experience financial
    difficulties, our ability to timely and efficiently access
    products that meet our high standards for quality could be
    adversely affected.


 


    We buy our products from suppliers located throughout the world.
    Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships
    with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high standards for
    quality and our need to access products in a timely and
    efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our ability to
    access products also can be adversely affected by political
    instability, the financial instability of suppliers,
    suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, trade
    restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport
    capacity and cost and other factors beyond our control.


 



    If we
    are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and
    relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products, we
    may be unable to effectively execute our strategy to
    differentiate ourselves from our competitors.


 


    As part of our focus on product differentiation, we have formed
    strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected
    suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized
    brand names. If we are unable to manage and expand these
    alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for
    comparable products, we may not be able to effectively execute
    product differentiation.



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Our
    ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if
    needed, could be adversely affected by the volatility in the
    capital markets.


 


    We obtain and manage liquidity from the positive cash flow we
    generate from our operating activities and our access to capital
    markets, including our commercial paper programs supported by a
    long-term bank
    line-of-credit
    commitment. Although we currently maintain a strong investment
    grade rating and had no outstanding commercial paper obligations
    as of the end of fiscal 2008, there is no assurance that our
    ability to obtain additional financing through the capital
    markets, if needed, will not be adversely impacted if the
    current recessionary trends persist or worsen. Continued
    volatility in the capital markets could result in diminished
    availability of credit, higher cost of borrowing and lack of
    confidence in the equity market, making it more difficult to
    obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable to us.


 



    The
    implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives
    could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these
    initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might
    fail.


 


    We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant
    investments in our supply chain and technology. These
    initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow
    our associates to continue to provide high quality service to
    our customers and to provide our customers with a better
    experience. The cost and potential problems and interruptions
    associated with the implementation of these initiatives could
    disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near
    term. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded
    technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might
    take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits,
    or the initiatives might fail altogether.


 



    We may
    not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends,
    which could adversely affect our relationship with customers,
    the demand for our products and services and our market
    share.


 


    It is difficult to successfully predict the products and
    services our customers will demand. The success of our business
    depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to
    evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences.
    Failure to design attractive stores and to timely identify or
    effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences,
    spending patterns and home improvement needs could adversely
    affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our
    products and services and our market share.


 



    The
    inflation or deflation of commodity prices could affect our
    prices, demand for our products, sales and profit
    margins.


 


    Prices of certain commodity products, including lumber and other
    raw materials, are historically volatile and are subject to
    fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international
    supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation,
    government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid
    and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our sales
    and profit margins.


 



    Our
    costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in
    federal, state or local regulations.


 


    Changes in the federal, state or local minimum wage or living
    wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace
    regulations could increase our costs of doing business. In
    addition, changes in federal, state or local regulations
    governing the sale of some of our products or tax regulations
    could increase our costs of doing business. Also, passage of the
    Employee Free Choice Act or other similar laws in Congress could
    lead to higher labor costs by encouraging unionization efforts
    among our associates and disruption of store operations.


 



    Our
    success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain
    highly qualified associates.


 


    To be successful, we must attract, train and retain a large
    number of highly qualified associates while controlling labor
    costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous
    external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and
    other insurance costs. In addition, many of our associates are
    in hourly positions with historically high turnover rates. We
    compete with other retail businesses for these associates and
    invest significant resources in training and motivating them. We
    also depend on our executives and other key associates for our
    success. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract
    or retain highly qualified associates in the future.



    
    6



Table of Contents





    Changes
    in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates
    and judgments by management related to complex accounting
    matters could significantly affect our financial results or
    financial condition.


 


    Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting
    pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations
    with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our
    business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment,
    inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, tax matters and
    litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective
    assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or
    their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions,
    estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported
    or expected financial performance or financial condition.


 



    Increased
    competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our
    products and services and could decrease our market
    share.


 


    We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We compete
    principally based on price, store location, customer service and
    assortment of merchandise. In each market we serve, there are a
    number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing
    and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With
    respect to some products, we also compete with discount stores,
    local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms,
    warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and other
    retailers. In addition, we compete with specialty design stores
    or showrooms, some of which are only open to interior design
    professionals, local and regional distributors, and wholesalers
    and manufacturers that sell products directly to their customer
    bases. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our
    competitors could affect prices or demand for our products and
    services. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond
    to these competitive pressures, our financial performance and
    our market share could be adversely affected.


 



    We are
    involved in a number of legal proceedings, and while we cannot
    predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies
    with certainty, some of these outcomes may adversely affect our
    operations or increase our costs.


 


    We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, including
    government inquiries and investigations, and consumer,
    employment, tort and other litigation that arise from time to
    time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is
    inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these
    proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or
    refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our
    operations or could result in excessive verdicts. Additionally,
    defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve
    significant expense and diversion of management’s attention
    and resources from other matters.


 



    The
    regulatory environment related to information security and
    privacy is increasingly rigorous, and a significant privacy
    breach could adversely affect our business.


 


    The protection of our customer, employee and company data is
    important to us. The regulatory environment related to
    information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with
    new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our
    business. In addition, our customers have a high expectation
    that we will adequately protect their personal information. A
    significant breach of customer, employee or company data could
    damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and
    lawsuits.


 



    Any
    inability to open new stores on schedule will delay the
    contribution of these new stores to our financial
    performance.


 


    We expect to increase our presence in certain existing markets
    and enter new markets. Our ability to open new stores will
    depend primarily on our ability to identify attractive
    locations, negotiate leases or real estate purchase agreements
    on acceptable terms, attract and train qualified
    employees, and manage pre-opening expenses, including
    construction costs.


 


    Environmental regulations, local zoning issues and other laws
    related to land use affect our ability to open new stores.
    Failure to effectively manage these and other similar factors
    will affect our ability to open stores on schedule, which will
    delay the impact of these new stores on our financial
    performance.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    If we
    cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by
    international markets, we may not be successful in expanding our
    international operations.


 


    Our strategy includes expansion of our operations in
    international markets by selective acquisitions, strategic
    alliances and the opening of new stores. Our ability to
    successfully execute our strategy in international markets is
    affected by many of the same operational risks we face in
    expanding our U.S. operations. In addition, international
    expansion may be adversely affected by our inability to identify
    and gain access to local suppliers as well as by local laws and
    customs, U.S. laws applicable to foreign operations, such as the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), legal and
    regulatory constraints, political and economic conditions and
    currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we
    currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks
    inherent in international operations also include, among others,
    the costs and difficulties of managing international operations,
    adverse tax consequences, greater difficulty in enforcing
    intellectual property rights and risks associated with FCPA and
    local anti-bribery law compliance. Additionally, foreign
    currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on
    our future costs or on future cash flows from our international
    operations.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B