Item 1A. "Risk Factors." You should read that information in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8 of this report. We note such information for investors as permitted
by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not perceive them
to be material, that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. 

Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we
make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). 

<A
NAME="de46201_part_i"> 
 
PART I        

Item 1. Business.  

Introduction  

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world's largest home improvement retailer and the second largest retailer in the United States ("U.S."), based on Net Sales for the fiscal
year ended January 28, 2007 ("fiscal 2006"). As of the end of fiscal 2006, we were operating 2,147 stores, most of which are The Home Depot stores. 


The
Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 105,000
square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 23,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2006, we had 2,100 The Home Depot stores located throughout the U.S.
(including the territories of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands), Canada, China and Mexico. In addition, at the end of fiscal 2006, the Company operated 34 EXPO Design Center stores, 11 The Home
Depot Landscape Supply stores and two The Home Depot Floor stores. 

1




 


In
addition to our retail stores, our business includes HD Supply, which distributes products and sells installation services primarily to business-to-business customers,
including home builders, professional contractors, municipalities and maintenance professionals. HD Supply consists of four major platforms: 1) infrastructure, including waterworks and
utilities; 2) construction, including construction supply, lumber and building materials, electrical, plumbing/HVAC and interiors; 3) maintenance, including facilities maintenance and
industrial PVF; and 4) repair and remodel. 


In
February 2007, the Company announced its decision to evaluate strategic alternatives for HD Supply, including a possible sale or initial public offering of the business. There can be no
assurance that any transaction will occur or, if one is undertaken, its terms or timing. 

The
Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our
telephone number is (770) 433-8211. 

We
maintain an Internet website at www.homedepot.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or
furnishing such documents to, the SEC. 

We
include our website addresses throughout this filing only as textual references. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 

Our Business  

We operate in two reportable segments, Retail and HD Supply. You will find information concerning the financial results and the total assets of each segment in Note 12
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial information about our operations outside the United States is also reported in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Retail Segment  

Operating Strategy.    Our operating strategy is to offer a broad assortment of high-quality merchandise
and services at competitive prices using knowledgeable, service-oriented personnel and strong marketing and credit promotions. We believe that our associates' knowledge of products and home
improvement techniques and applications is very important to our marketing approach and our ability to maintain and enhance customer satisfaction. 

Customers.    The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups: 



•Do-It-Yourself ("D-I-Y") Customers: These customers are typically home owners
who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. To complement the expertise of our associates, The Home Depot stores offer "how-to" clinics taught by associates
and merchandise vendors.
•Do-It-For-Me ("D-I-F-M") Customers: These customers
are typically home owners who purchase materials themselves and hire third parties to complete the project and/or installation. We arrange for the installation of a variety of The Home Depot products
through qualified independent contractors.
•Professional Customers: These customers are professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen and tradesmen. In many
stores, we offer a variety of programs to these customers, including additional delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff, extensive merchandise selections and expanded credit
programs, all of which we believe increase sales to these customers. 

2




 





Products.    A typical The Home Depot store stocks 35,000 to 45,000 products during the year, including both national
brand name and proprietary items. The following table shows the percentage of Net Sales of each major product group (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years: 




 
 
Percentage of Net Sales for
Fiscal Year Ended
 


Product Group 
 
January 28,
2007
 
January 29,
2006
 
January 30,
2005
 


Building materials, lumber and millwork
 
23.6
%
24.2
%
24.4
%


Plumbing, electrical and kitchen
 
30.8
 
29.4
 
29.0
 


Hardware and seasonal
 
27.0
 
27.1
 
26.9
 


Paint, flooring and wall covering
 
18.6
 
19.3
 
19.7
 


 
 

 

 

 


Total
 
100.0
%
100.0
%
100.0
%


 
 

 

 

 





To
complement and enhance our product selection, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of
well-recognized brand names. During fiscal 2006, we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments including, but not limited to, Behr Premium
Plus® paint, Charmglow® gas grills, Hampton Bay® lighting, Mills Pride® cabinets, Vigoro® lawn care products, Husky® hand tools,
RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools, Pegasus® faucets, Traffic Master® carpet, Glacier Bay® bath fixtures and Veranda® decking
products. We may consider additional strategic alliances and relationships with other suppliers and will continue to assess opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names
that are exclusive to The Home Depot. 

In
fiscal 2006, innovative and distinctive products continued to be a growth driver supporting our merchandising strategy. The following successes helped differentiate The Home Depot in the
marketplace: 



•Introduced
the most comprehensive lineup of top brand lawn tractors and mowers available nationwide, including Cub Cadet®, Toro®, John
Deere® and Honda®;
•Launched
an expanded outdoor living assortment, including Hampton Bay patio and Charmglow grills;
•Launched
an exclusive line-up of lithium-ion power tools from Milwaukee®, RIDGID and Makita®; and
•Launched
the LG® SteamWasher™ and the Maytag® Epic™ washer and dryer. 


We
maintain a global sourcing merchandise program to source high-quality products directly from manufacturers. Our product development merchants travel internationally to identify
opportunities to purchase items directly for our stores. Additionally, we have four sourcing offices located in Shanghai, Shenzhen, Dalian, and Chengdu, China, as well as one office in Gurgaon, India.
We also have a quality assurance engineer located in Milan, Italy and we have product development merchants, as well as a sourcing office, in Monterrey, Mexico. We currently source products from more
than 800 factories in approximately 35 countries. 

Services.    The Home Depot and EXPO Design Center stores offer a variety of installation services. These services
target D-I-F-M customers who select and purchase products and installation of those products from us. These installation programs include products such as
carpeting, flooring, cabinets, countertops and water heaters. In addition, we provide professional installation of a number of products sold through our in-home sales programs, such as
generators and furnace and central air systems. 

3




 


Store Growth  

United States.    At the end of fiscal 2006, we were operating 1,872 The Home Depot stores in the U.S., including the territories of
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. During fiscal 2006, we opened 86 new The Home Depot stores, including eight relocations, in the U.S. 


Canada.    At
the end of fiscal 2006, we were operating 155 The Home Depot stores in ten Canadian provinces. Of these stores, 20 were opened during fiscal 2006,
including two relocations. 

Mexico.    At
the end of fiscal 2006, we were operating 61 The Home Depot stores in Mexico. Of these stores, seven were opened during fiscal 2006. 

China.    In
fiscal 2006, we acquired The Home Way, a Chinese home improvement retailer, including 12 stores in six cities. 


Credit Services.    We offer credit purchase programs through third-party credit providers to professional,
D-I-Y and D-I-F-M customers. In fiscal 2006, approximately 4.5 million new The Home Depot credit accounts were opened, bringing the
total number of The Home Depot account holders to approximately 17 million. Proprietary credit card sales accounted for approximately 28% of store sales in fiscal 2006. We also offer an
unsecured Home Improvement Loan program through third-party credit providers that gives our customers the opportunity to finance the purchase of products and services in our stores. We believe this
loan program not only supports large sales, such as kitchen and bath remodels, but also generates incremental sales from our customers. 

Logistics.    Our logistics programs are designed to ensure excellent product availability for customers, effective
use of our investment in inventory and low total supply chain costs. At the end of fiscal 2006, we operated 18 import distribution centers located in the U.S. and Canada. At the end of fiscal 2006, we
also operated 30 lumber distribution centers in the U.S. and Canada to support the lumber demands of our stores and 10 transit facilities to receive merchandise from manufacturers for immediate
delivery to our stores. At the end of fiscal 2006, approximately 40% of the merchandise shipped to our stores flowed through our network of distribution centers and transit facilities. As our networks
evolve, we expect to increase our flow-through. The remaining merchandise will be shipped directly from our suppliers to our stores. In addition to replenishing merchandise supplies at our
stores, we also provide delivery services directly to our customers. 

Seasonality.    Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our
second fiscal quarter and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter. 

Competition.    Our business is highly competitive, based in part on price, store location, customer service and depth
of merchandise. In each of the markets we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some
products, we also compete with discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other
retailers. In addition to these entities, our EXPO Design Center stores compete with specialty design stores or showrooms, some of which are only open to interior design professionals. Due to the
variety of competition we face, we are unable to precisely measure the impact on our sales by our competitors. 


HD Supply Segment  

Operating Strategy.    Our operating strategy is to provide a total solution for every phase of a building project,
from infrastructure to construction to lifetime maintenance and repair and remodel. We believe that our broad product and service offering, our highly knowledgeable sales force and our reputation for
superior customer service enable us to be a single-source supplier to our customers for the entire project lifecycle. 

4





 

Customers.    We distribute products and offer services primarily to builders, contractors, government entities,
industrial businesses and maintenance professionals. Our customers typically select their vendors primarily on the basis of product availability, relationships with and expertise of sales personnel,
price and the quality and scope of services offered. Additionally, professional customers generally purchase large volumes, are repeat buyers because of their involvement in longer-term
projects and require specialized services. We complement our product offering with customer-driven, value-added services, such as integrated supply, design assistance, kitting, assembly and
fabrication services. 

Products and Services.    Our products and services are focused around the following four major categories that are
related to different phases of a building project: 



•Infrastructure:
This category covers the products and services to construct and support the public works systems for residential and commercial projects.
•Construction:
This category covers the interior and exterior structural building components for residential and commercial projects.
•Maintenance:
This category covers products and services for the routine maintenance, repair and operations needs of multifamily housing, hospitality, healthcare, government
and industrial facilities.
•Repair
and Remodel: This category covers home improvement products and building materials, serving the consumer, professional handyman and light remodeler markets. 


Inventories.    We maintain extensive inventories to meet the rapid delivery requirements of our customers. Our
inventories are based on the needs, delivery schedules and lead times of our customers. We focus on distributing products that leverage our strengths in inventory management, purchasing, specialized
sales force, distribution and logistics, credit management and information technology. 

Credit Services.    Over 90% of our sales volume is facilitated through the extension of credit to our customers. Our
businesses offer credit to customers, either through unsecured credit that is based solely upon the creditworthiness of the customer, or secured credit for materials sold for a specific job where the
security lies in lien rights associated with the material going into the job. The type of credit offered depends both on the financial strength of the customer and the nature of the business in which
the customer is involved. End users, resellers and other non-contractor customers generally purchase more on unsecured credit than secured credit. These lines of credit are granted only
after a sufficient review of the creditworthiness of the customer. In addition, on a regular basis, large unsecured credit lines are reviewed to ensure they are still financially sound. 

Logistics.    Our distribution network consists of over 1,000 combined branches and central distribution centers in
the United States. The efficient operation of our distribution network is critical in providing quality service to our customer base. Our central distribution centers and branches use warehouse
management technology to optimize receiving, inventory control and picking, packing and shipping functions. In addition, we leverage several of our larger branches as distribution points for certain
product lines. 

The
majority of customer orders are shipped from inventory at our branches. In order to maintain complete control of the delivery process, we use over 4,000 vehicles from our total vehicle fleet to
deliver products to our customers. We also accommodate special orders from our customers and facilitate the shipment of certain large volume orders directly from the manufacturer to the customer.
Orders for larger construction projects normally require long-term delivery schedules throughout the period of construction, which in some cases may continue for several years. 

5




 


Seasonality.    Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our
second fiscal quarter and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter. 

Competition.    We are one of the largest wholesale distributors of our range of products in the United States, and we
believe that no other company competes against us across all of our product lines. However, there is significant competition in each of our individual product lines. Our competition includes other
wholesalers, manufacturers that sell products directly to their respective customer base and some of our customers that resell our products. To a limited extent, retailers of plumbing, electrical
fixtures and supplies, building materials, maintenance repair and operations supplies and contractors' tools also compete with us. Competition varies depending on product line, customer classification
and geographic area. The principal competitive factors in our business include, but are not limited to, availability of materials and supplies; technical product knowledge and expertise as to
application and usage; advisory or other service capabilities; ability to build and maintain customer relationships; same-day delivery capabilities in certain product lines; pricing of
products and provision of credit. 

Support Services  

Information Technologies.    During fiscal 2006, we continued to make significant information technology investments
to support better customer service and provide an improved shopping environment in our stores. We completed the deployment of self-checkout registers to all our U.S. stores and the
majority of our stores in Canada and enhanced our coupon processing at all check-outs. We also began implementing in-store call boxes and installed voice over internet phone
systems in order to provide customers faster assistance from our associates. To support the continued growth of our appliance business, we upgraded our proprietary Depot Direct appliance fulfillment
system. 

In
addition to significant investments in store technology, we upgraded our order management system, which improves the speed and accuracy of online order processing and provides customers the ability
to check special order status on the internet. We also defined a set of common enterprise system platforms for our HD Supply wholesale businesses and began migrating the HD Supply businesses to these
platforms, beginning with the payroll and financial functions. 

We
also began work on the strategic effort to implement a new Retail Systems platform to further improve the performance of our merchandising functions and store operations. We also commenced the
effort to add new automation into our supply chain functions focusing on new systems for warehouse distribution, transportation management and enhancements to support greater order penetration through
our centralized replenishment systems. 

Associates.    At the end of fiscal 2006, we employed approximately 364,000 associates, of whom approximately 26,000
were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. Approximately 68% of our associates are employed on a full-time basis. We believe that our employee relations
are very good. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve. 

Intellectual Property.    Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Homer TLC, Inc., we have registered or applied
for registration, in a number of countries, for a variety of internet domain names, service marks and trademarks for use in our businesses, including The Home Depot®; HD Supply; Hampton
Bay® fans, lighting and accessories; Glacier Bay® toilets, sinks and faucets; Pegasus® faucets and bath accessories; Commercial Electric® lighting
fixtures; Workforce® tools, tool boxes and shelving; www.hdsupply.com and www.doitherself.com. Furthermore, we have also obtained and now maintain patent portfolios relating to certain
products and services provided by The Home Depot, and continually seek to patent or otherwise protect selected innovations we incorporate into our products and business operations. We regard our
intellectual property as having significant value to each business segment and as being an important factor in the marketing of our brand, e-commerce, stores 

6




 


and
new areas of business. We are not aware of any facts that could be expected to have a material adverse affect on our intellectual property. 


Quality Assurance Program.    We have a quality assurance program for our directly imported globally-sourced products.
Through this program, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance, which measures factors such as product quality and timeliness of shipments. The performance record is made
available to the factories to allow them to strive for improvement. The program addresses quality assurance at the factory, product and packaging levels. 

Environmental, Health & Safety ("EH&S").    We are committed to maintaining a safe environment for our
customers and associates, and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our EH&S function in the field is directed by trained associates focused primarily on execution of
the EH&S programs. Additionally, we have an Atlanta-based team of dedicated EH&S professionals who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a
Company-wide basis. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause actual results to
differ materially from our expectations and projections. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and
uncertainties – many of which are beyond our control – as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our
expectations and projections. Forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as Net Sales growth, comparable store sales, impact of cannibalization, state of the residential construction and
housing markets, commodity price inflation and deflation, implementation of store initiatives, protection of intellectual property rights, Net Earnings performance, including Depreciation and
Amortization expense, earnings per share, stock-based compensation expense, store openings and closures, capital allocation and expenditures, the effect of adopting certain accounting standards,
return on invested capital, management of our purchasing or customer credit policies, strategic direction, including whether or not a sale or initial public offering of HD Supply will occur or, if a
transaction is undertaken, its terms or timing, and the demand for our products and services. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8 of this report. There also may be other factors that we cannot
anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not perceive them to be material, that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related
subjects in our periodic filings with the SEC. 

Rising costs, a reduction in the availability of financing, weather and other conditions in North America could adversely affect our costs of doing
business, demand for our products and services and our average ticket price.  

Interest rates, fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare costs, availability of financing, employment, state of the residential construction and housing markets,
consumer confidence and general economic outlook, weather, natural disasters, terrorism and other conditions that adversely 

7




 


affect
consumer demand for our products and services could adversely affect our financial performance. These and other similar factors could: 



•increase
our costs,
•cause
our customers to delay undertaking or determine not to undertake new home improvement projects,
•cause
our customers to delay purchasing or determine not to purchase home improvement products and services,
•cause
our customers to delay or determine not to undertake new spending in the commercial, residential, industrial and public infrastructure markets, and
•lead
to a decline in customer transactions and in average ticket price. 



We rely on third party suppliers, and if we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified suppliers, our ability to
timely and efficiently access products that meet our high standards for quality could be adversely affected.  

We buy our products and supplies from suppliers located throughout the world. Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can
satisfy our high standards for quality and our need to access products and supplies in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our ability to access products and supplies also can be
adversely affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport
capacity and cost and other factors beyond our control. 

If we are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products, we may be unable to
effectively execute our strategy to differentiate us from our competitors.  

As part of our strategy of differentiation, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of
well-recognized brand names. If we are unable to manage and expand these alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for comparable products, we may not be able to
effectively execute our strategy of differentiation. 

Any inability to open new stores on schedule will delay the contribution of these new stores to our financial performance.  


We expect to increase our presence in existing markets and enter new markets. Our ability to open new stores will depend primarily on our ability to: 



•identify
attractive locations,
•negotiate
leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms,
•attract
and train qualified employees, and
•manage
pre-opening expenses, including construction costs. 


Our
ability to open new stores also will be affected by environmental regulations, local zoning issues and other laws related to land use. Failure to effectively manage these and other similar factors
will affect our ability to open stores on schedule, which will delay the impact of these new stores on our financial performance. 

8




 


The implementation of our technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and our technology initiatives might not provide the
anticipated benefits or might fail.  

We have made, and will continue to make, significant technology investments both in our stores and branches and in our administrative functions. Our technology initiatives are
designed to streamline our operations to allow our associates to continue to provide high quality service to our customers and to provide our customers a better experience. The cost and potential
problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of our technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our new or upgraded
technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits or the technology might fail altogether. 

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could adversely affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for
our products and services and our market share.  

It is difficult to successfully predict the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond
to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to design attractive stores and to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending
patterns and home improvement needs could adversely affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. 

The inflation or deflation of commodity prices could affect our prices, demand for our products, sales and profit margins.  


Prices of certain commodity products, including lumber and other raw materials, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and
international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our
sales and profit margins. 

If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in expanding our international
operations.  

Our strategy includes expansion of our operations in existing and new international markets by selective acquisitions, strategic alliances and the opening of new stores and
branches. Our ability to successfully execute our strategy in international markets is affected by many of the same operational risks we face in expanding our U.S. operations. In addition, our
international expansion may be adversely affected by our ability to identify and gain access to local suppliers as well as by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, political and
economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our international operations also include,
among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency
exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations. 

Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified associates.  

To be successful, we must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of highly qualified associates while controlling related labor costs. Our ability to control
labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs. In addition, many of our associates are in hourly positions with historically
high turnover rates. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these associates and invest significant resources in training and 

9




 


motivating
them. We also depend on our executives and other key associates for our success. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future. 

Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could
significantly affect our financial results.  

Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are
relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, inventories, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective
assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could
significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. 

Increased competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our products and services and could decrease our market share.  


We operate in markets in industries that are highly competitive. Our retail business competes principally based on price, store location, customer service and depth of
merchandise. Our HD Supply business competes principally based on ability to provide and deliver supplies, product knowledge and expertise, advisory services and availability of credit. In each market
we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products, we also compete with discount
stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and other retailers. In addition, we compete with specialty design stores or
showrooms, some of which are only open to interior design professionals, local and regional distributors, and wholesalers and manufacturers that sell products directly to their customer bases. Intense
competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors could affect prices or demand for our products and services. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to these pressures, our
financial performance and our market share could be adversely affected. 

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, and while we cannot predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty,
some of these outcomes may adversely affect our operations or increase our costs.  

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, including government inquiries and investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. We cannot predict the
outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by government authorities, with certainty. The outcome of some of these
legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money.
Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. 

Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local regulations.  


Changes in the federal, state or local minimum wage or living wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace regulations could increase our costs of doing business.
Changes in federal, state or local regulations governing the sale of some of our products could increase our costs of doing business. In addition, changes to federal, state and local tax regulations
could increase our costs of doing business. 

10




 


Item 1B