. RISK FACTORS Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of The Hartford and could also impact the trading price of our securities. The Hartford may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties that are not specifically described below, which may have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of The Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The following risk factors have been organized by category for ease of use, however many of the risks may have impacts in more than one category. These categories, therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks facing us and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the matters discussed. Risk factors are not necessarily listed in order of importance.Risks Relating to Economic, Market and Political Conditions Unfavorable conditions in our operating environment, including general economic and global capital market conditions, including financial and capital markets risks, such as changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, market volatility, foreign exchange rates, commodities prices and real estate market deterioration, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.The Company’s investment portfolio and insurance liabilities are sensitive to changes in global capital market conditions.  Stressed conditions or disruptions in global capital markets can directly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity as well as impact the economic environment.  Weak economic conditions, such as  high unemployment, low labor force participation, lower family income, higher tax rates, lower business investment and lower consumer spending may have adversely affected or may in the future adversely affect the demand for insurance and financial products, as well as their profitability in some cases. Weak economic conditions are also likely to result in the persistence of a low interest rate environment as well as volatility in other global capital market conditions, which will continue to pressure our investment results.One important exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with our operations in Mutual Funds and Talcott Resolution, such as U.S. variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. Should equity markets decline from current levels, assets under management and related fee income will be reduced. Certain of our products have guaranteed benefits that increase our potential obligation and statutory capital exposure when equity markets decline. Sustained declines in equity markets may result in the need to utilize significant additional capital to support these products and adversely affect our ability to support our other businesses.A sustained low interest rate environment would pressure our net investment income and could result in lower margins and lower estimated gross profits on certain products. New and renewal business for our property and casualty and group benefits products is priced based on prevailing interest rates. As interest rates decline, pricing targets will tend to increase to offset the lower anticipated investment income earned on invested premiums. Conversely, as interest rates rise, pricing targets will tend to decrease to reflect higher anticipated investment income. Such changes in pricing may affect our competitiveness in the marketplace, and in turn, written premium and earnings margin achieved. In addition, due to the long-term nature of the liabilities within our Group Benefits and Talcott Resolution operations, such as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, sustained declines in long-term interest rates subjects us to reinvestment risks, increased hedging costs, spread compression and capital volatility. A rise in interest rates, in the absence of other countervailing changes, will reduce the market value of our investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates were to rise dramatically certain products within our Talcott Resolution segment might be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. An increase in interest rates can also impact our tax planning strategies and, in particular, our ability to utilize tax benefits to offset certain previously recognized realized capital losses. Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to changes in market price of fixed income instruments associated with changes in credit spreads. If issuer credit spreads widen significantly and retain wide levels over an extended period of time, other-than-temporary impairments and decreases in the market value of our investment portfolio will likely result. In addition, losses may also occur due to volatility in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, we incur losses associated with credit derivatives where the Company assumes exposure. When credit spreads tighten, we incur losses associated with derivatives where the Company has purchased credit protection. If credit spreads tighten significantly, the Company's net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities may be reduced. In addition, a reduction in market liquidity can make it difficult to value certain of our securities when trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may be more susceptible to significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.14Our exposure to commodity prices primarily relates to our investment portfolio.  Our investment portfolio includes fixed maturities and equity securities issued by companies and sovereigns that derive a portion of their revenues from commodities, including oil, coal, natural gas, precious and non-precious metals.  In periods in which the prices of these and other commodities fall, absent other countervailing changes, decreases in the market value of our investment portfolio will likely result.  If these declines in commodities prices are severe and persist over an extended period of time, other-than-temporary impairments may result. Our statutory surplus is also affected by widening credit spreads as a result of the accounting for the assets and liabilities on our fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities. Statutory separate account assets supporting the fixed MVA annuities are recorded at fair value. In determining the statutory reserve for the fixed MVA annuities we are required to use current crediting rates in the U.S.    In many capital market scenarios, current crediting rates in the U.S. are highly correlated with market rates implicit in the fair value of statutory separate account assets. As a result, the change in the statutory reserve from period to period will likely substantially offset the change in the fair value of the statutory separate account assets. However, in periods of volatile credit markets, actual credit spreads on investment assets may increase sharply for certain sub-sectors of the overall credit market, resulting in statutory separate account asset market value losses. As actual credit spreads are not fully reflected in current crediting rates in the U.S., the calculation of statutory reserves will not substantially offset the change in fair value of the statutory separate account assets, resulting in reductions in statutory surplus. This has resulted in the past and may result in the future in the need to devote significant additional capital to support the fixed MVA product.Our real estate market exposure includes investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations, mortgage and real estate partnerships, and mortgage loans. Deterioration in the real estate market has adversely affected our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in the past. While the real estate market has shown signs of improvement, deteriorating fundamentals (including increases in property vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures) could cause a decline in market values, which would have a negative impact on sources of refinancing, resulting in reduced market liquidity and higher risk premiums. This could result in reductions in market value and impairments of real estate-backed securities, a reduction in net investment income associated with real estate partnerships, and increases in our valuation allowance for mortgage loans.Significant declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, inflation, the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar or real estate market deterioration, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Our hedging assets seek to reduce the net economic sensitivity of our potential obligations from guaranteed benefits to equity market and interest rate fluctuations. Because of the accounting asymmetries between our hedging targets and statutory and GAAP accounting principles for our guaranteed benefits, rising equity markets and/or rising interest rates may result in statutory or GAAP losses.Concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidityThe concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, collateral type, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on our investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated rather than diversified. Risks Relating to Estimates, Assumptions and ValuationsActual results could materially differ from the analytical models we use to assist our decision making in key areas such as underwriting, capital, hedging, reserving, and catastrophe risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We employ various modeling techniques (e.g., scenarios, predictive, stochastic and/or forecasting) to analyze and estimate exposures, loss trends and other risks associated with our assets and liabilities. We use the modeled outputs and related analyses to assist us in decision-making related to underwriting, pricing, capital allocation, reserving, hedging, reinsurance, and catastrophe risk. Both proprietary and third party models we use incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of interest rates, capital requirements, loss frequency and severity, currency exchange rates, policyholder behavior, equity markets and inflation, among others. The modeled outputs and related analyses are subject to the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis, including the use of historical internal and industry data and assumptions, which may be stale, incomplete or erroneous. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from our modeled results. The profitability and financial condition of the Company substantially depends on the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with assumptions we use in our models and ultimate model outputs. If, based upon these models or other factors, we misprice our products or our estimates of the risks we are exposed to prove to be materially inaccurate, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected.15Our valuations of many of our financial instruments include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The following financial instruments are carried at fair value in the Company's consolidated financial statements: fixed maturities, equity securities, freestanding and embedded derivatives, certain hedge fund investments, and separate account assets. The determination of fair values is made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly increasing/decreasing interest rates, rapidly widening/narrowing credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment. In such cases, securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment in determining their fair values and those fair values may differ materially from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing or unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Evaluation of available-for-sale securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether a credit and/or non-credit impairment exists and whether an impairment should be recognized in current period earnings or in other comprehensive income. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer's financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. For securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows, the Company uses its best estimate of cash flows over the life of the security to determine if a security is other-than-temporarily-impaired.  In addition, estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments is based upon our quarterly evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential.  Impairment losses in earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.If assumptions used in estimating future gross profits differ from actual experience, we may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and increase reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company deferred acquisition costs associated with the prior sales of its variable annuity products. Deferred acquisition costs for the U.S. variable annuity products are amortized over the expected life of the contracts. The remaining deferred but not yet amortized cost is referred to as the Deferred Acquisition Cost (“DAC”) asset. We amortize these costs in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). The Company evaluates the EGPs compared to the DAC asset to determine if an impairment exists. The Company also establishes reserves for GMDB and the life contingent portion of guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ("GMWB") using components of EGPs. The projection of EGPs, or components of EGPs, requires the use of certain assumptions, principally related to separate account fund returns, surrender and lapse rates, interest margin (including impairments), mortality, benefit utilization, annuitization and hedging costs. Of these factors, we anticipate that changes in separate account fund returns are most likely to impact the EGP, along with the rate of amortization of such costs. However, other factors such as those the Company might employ to reduce risk, such as the cost of hedging or other risk mitigating techniques, as well as the effect of increased surrenders, could also significantly reduce estimates of future gross profits. Estimating future gross profits is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the forecasting of events well into the future. If our assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, including lapse rates, benefit utilization, surrenders, and annuitization, hedging costs or costs to employ other risk mitigating techniques prove to be inaccurate or if significant or sustained equity market declines occur, we could be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC related to variable annuity contracts, and increase reserves for GMDB which would result in a charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.16If our businesses do not perform well, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset or to recognize an impairment of our goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management's determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate capital gains to offset previously recognized capital losses, from a variety of sources and tax planning strategies. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that we are unable to recognize a full tax benefit on deferred tax assets, then a valuation allowance will be established with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). Charges to increase our valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted by any efforts made by the Company to limit risk. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). These write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims, and our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Significant uncertainty limits the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims. For some asbestos and environmental claims, we believe that the actuarial tools and other techniques we employ to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for our asbestos and environmental exposures. Accordingly, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these longer-tailed exposures is significantly greater than for other more traditional exposures. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. Because of the significant uncertainties that limit the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the currently recorded reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related periods. Depending on the scale of any changes in these estimated losses, such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Financial Strength, Credit and Counterparty Risks  The amount of statutory capital that we have, and the amount of statutory capital that we must hold to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings and meet other requirements, can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control, including equity market, credit market and interest rate conditions, changes in policyholder behavior, changes in rating agency models, and changes in regulations.We conduct the vast majority of our business through licensed insurance company subsidiaries. Accounting standards and statutory capital and reserve requirements for these entities are prescribed by the applicable insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). Insurance regulators have established regulations that provide minimum capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for both life and property and casualty companies. The RBC formula for life companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks, including equity, interest rate and expense recovery risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits or certain living benefits. The RBC formula for property and casualty companies adjusts statutory surplus levels for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks. 17In any particular year, statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, including the amount of statutory income or losses generated by our insurance subsidiaries (which itself is sensitive to equity market and credit market conditions), the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support business growth, changes in equity market levels, the value of certain fixed-income and equity securities in our investment portfolio, the value of certain derivative instruments, changes in interest rates,  the impact of internal reinsurance arrangements, admissibility of deferred tax assets and changes to the NAIC RBC formulas. Most of these factors are outside of the Company's control. The Company's financial strength and credit ratings are significantly influenced by the statutory surplus amounts and RBC ratios of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, rating agencies may implement changes to their internal models that have the effect of increasing the amount of statutory capital we must hold in order to maintain our current ratings. Also, in extreme scenarios of equity market declines and other capital market volatility, the amount of additional statutory reserves that we are required to hold for our variable annuity guarantees increases at a greater than linear rate. This reduces the statutory surplus used in calculating our RBC ratios. When equity markets increase, surplus levels and RBC ratios would generally be expected to increase. However, as a result of a number of factors and market conditions, including the level of hedging costs and other risk transfer activities, reserve requirements for death and living benefit guarantees and increases in RBC requirements, surplus and RBC ratios may not increase when equity markets increase. Due to these factors, projecting statutory capital and the related RBC ratios is complex. If our statutory capital resources are insufficient to maintain a particular rating by one or more rating agencies, we may seek to raise capital through public or private equity or debt financing. If we were not to raise additional capital, either at our discretion or because we were unable to do so, our financial strength and credit ratings might be downgraded by one or more rating agencies. Downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings, which may make our products less attractive, could increase our cost of capital and inhibit our ability to refinance our debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Financial strength and credit ratings are important in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating agency (including its assessment of the strategic importance of the rated company to the insurance group), general economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company's control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency's judgment of its internal rating and the publicly issued rating it assigns us. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a result, our competitiveness. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in the rating of our financial strength or of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position and reduce future sales of our products.Our credit ratings also affect our cost of capital. A downgrade or a potential downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult or costly to refinance maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries. Downgrades could begin to trigger potentially material collateral calls on certain of our derivative instruments and counterparty rights to terminate derivative relationships, both of which could limit our ability to purchase additional derivative instruments. These events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For a further discussion of potential impacts of ratings downgrades on derivative instruments, including potential collateral calls, see the "Capital Resources and Liquidity - Derivative Commitments" section of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by others, including issuers of investment securities, mortgage loans or reinsurance and derivative instrument counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Issuers or borrowers whose securities or loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries and guarantors may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud, government intervention or other reasons. Such defaults could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the underlying assets supporting our structured securities or loans may deteriorate causing these securities or loans to incur losses.Our investment portfolio includes securities backed by real estate assets, the value of which may be adversely impacted if conditions in the real estate market significantly deteriorate, including declines in property values and increases in vacancy rates, delinquencies and foreclosures, ultimately resulting in a reduction in expected future cash flows for certain securities. 18The Company also has exposure to foreign-based issuers of securities and providers of reinsurance. These foreign issuers include European and certain emerging market issuers. Despite stabilization in the European market, there are still fundamental structural issues that remain and may result in the re-emergence of fiscal and economic issues. In addition, there has been recent volatility within certain emerging market countries spurred by concerns over the potential for rising U.S. interest rates, slowing global growth, lower prices for oil and other commodities, and the devaluation of certain currencies. Further details of the European and certain emerging market private and sovereign issuers held within the investment portfolio can be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management. The Company's European based reinsurance arrangements are further described in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Investment Portfolio Risks and Risk Management.  Property value declines and loss rates that exceed our current estimates, as outlined in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management - Other-Than-Temporary Impairments, or a worsening of global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.To the extent the investment portfolio is not adequately diversified, concentrations of credit risk may exist which could negatively impact the Company if significant adverse events or developments occur in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic regions. The Company’s investment portfolio is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of the Company's stockholders' equity other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.  However, if issuers of securities or loans we hold are acquired, merge or otherwise consolidate with other issuers of securities or loans held by the Company, our investment portfolio’s credit concentration risk to issuers could increase above the 10% threshold, for a period of time, until the Company is able to sell securities to get back in compliance with the established investment credit policies. For discussion of the Company’s exposure to credit concentration risk of reinsurers, see the risk factor, “We may incur losses due to our reinsurers' unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses.”We may incur losses due to our reinsurers' unwillingness or inability to meet their obligations under reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us against losses.As an insurer, we frequently use reinsurance to reduce the effect of losses that may arise from catastrophes, transfer other risks that can cause unfavorable results of operations, or effect the sale of one line of business to an independent company. Under these reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses; however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims, and we are subject to our reinsurers' credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we regularly evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or dispute their contractual obligations. The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. This risk may be magnified by a concentration of reinsurance-related credit risk resulting from the sale of the Company’s Individual Life business. Further details of such concentration can be found in Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Reinsurance as a Risk Management Strategy - Life Insurance Product Reinsurance Recoverable. In addition, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. Reinsurance pricing changes significantly over time, and no assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our net liability exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop to the extent possible other alternatives to reinsurance. Further, due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of time before reinsurance recoverables will be due, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s reinsurance recoverables, net of the allowance, could be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period.Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to limitations.The payment of future dividends on our capital stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our operating results, overall financial condition, credit-risk considerations and capital requirements, as well as general business and market conditions.19Moreover, as a holding company that is separate and distinct from our insurance subsidiaries, we have no significant business operations of our own. Therefore, we rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash flow to meet our obligations. These obligations include payments on our debt securities and the payment of dividends on our capital stock. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws limit the payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers and require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of dividends above certain levels. The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are incorporated, or deemed commercially domiciled,  generally contain similar, and in some instances more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. Dividends paid to us by our insurance subsidiaries are further dependent on their cash requirements. For further discussion on dividends from insurance subsidiaries, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A - Capital Resources & Liquidity.Our rights to participate in any distribution of the assets of any of our subsidiaries, for example, upon their liquidation or reorganization, and the ability of holders of our common stock to benefit indirectly from a distribution, are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the applicable subsidiary, except to the extent that we may be a creditor of that subsidiary. Holders of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Moreover, our common stockholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. The terms of our outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing.Insurance and Product-Related Risks Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected by unfavorable loss development. Our success, in part, depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the coverage provided to policyholders that we insure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all unpaid losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, less what has been paid to date. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of claims severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined periodically as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Because of this uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate. Furthermore, since estimates of aggregate loss costs for prior accident years are used in pricing our insurance products, we could later determine that our products were not priced adequately to cover actual losses and related loss expenses in order to generate a profit. To the extent we determine that losses and related loss expenses are emerging unfavorably to our initial expectations, we will be required to increase reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the period or periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations for the related period or periods. Depending on any changes in these estimated losses, such determinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.We are particularly vulnerable to losses from catastrophes, both natural and man-made, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable natural events, including, among others, earthquakes, hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, wind storms, fires, tornadoes, and pandemics. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, explosions or infrastructure failures. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure for events occurring in a number of areas, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast, the Northeast and the Atlantic coast regions of the United States, tornadoes in the Midwest and Southeast, earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States, and the spread of disease. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured employees and property in these areas will continue to increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. In addition, changing climate conditions across longer time scales, including the potential risk of broader climate change, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the severity of certain natural catastrophe losses across various geographic regions.Potential examples of the impact of climate change on catastrophe exposure include, but are not limited to the following: an increase in the frequency or severity of wind and thunderstorm and tornado/hailstorm events due to increased convection in the atmosphere, more frequent brush fires in certain geographies due to prolonged periods of drought, higher incidence of deluge flooding, and the potential for an increase in severity of the largest hurricane events due to higher sea surface temperatures. In addition, our businesses have exposure to global or nationally occurring pandemics caused by highly infectious and potentially fatal diseases, and are spread through human, animal or plant populations. Additionally, due to such catastrophes, caused by natural or man-made events, policyholders may be unable to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies.20Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which could result in extraordinary losses. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. To the extent that loss experience unfolds or models improve, we will seek to reflect any of these changes in the design and pricing of our products. However, the Company may be exposed to regulatory or legislative actions that prevent a full accounting of loss expectations in the design or pricing of our products or result in additional risk-shifting to the insurance industry.The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. Private sector catastrophe reinsurance is extremely limited and generally unavailable for terrorism losses caused by attacks with nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons. Reinsurance coverage from the federal government under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“TRIPRA”) is also limited. Although TRIPRA provides benefits for certified acts of terrorism that exceed a certain threshold of industry losses ($100 in 2015, increasing to $200 by 2020), those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations. Under TRIPRA, once our losses exceed 20% of our subject commercial property and casualty insurance premium for the preceding calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us a percentage of our losses (85% in 2015, decreasing 1% annually until 2020) attributable to certain acts of terrorism which exceed this deductible up to a total industry program cap of $100 billion. Our estimated deductible under the program is $1.19 billion for 2015. In addition, because the interpretation of this law is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to specific circumstances.  Accordingly, the effects of a terrorist attack in the geographic areas we serve may result in claims and related losses for which we do not have adequate reinsurance. This would likely cause us to increase our reserves, adversely affect our results during the period or periods affected and, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Further, the continued threat of terrorism and the occurrence of terrorist attacks, as well as heightened security measures and military action in response to these threats and attacks or other geopolitical or military crises, may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in our investment portfolio as well as those in our separate accounts. Terrorist attacks also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected by the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued, and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity at the time it becomes knownAs a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future loss cost frequency and severity, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims.21State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or to offer coverage to all consumers and often restrict an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise charge or restrict an insurer's ability to offer or enforce specific policy deductibles. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates or accept additional risk not contemplated in our existing rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to unacceptable returns on equity. The laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state's insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards,  more expansive coverage offerings and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards, more coverage restrictions and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In all of our property and casualty insurance product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium we charge may ultimately prove to be inadequate as reported losses emerge. In addition, there is a risk that regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent us from achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Adjustments to our risk management program relating to products we offered with guaranteed benefits to emphasize protection of economic value may result in statutory and U.S. GAAP volatility in our earnings and potentially material charges to net income (loss). Some of the in-force business within our Talcott Resolution operations, especially variable annuities, offer guaranteed benefits, including GMWB and GMDB which, in the event of a decline in equity markets, would not only result in lower earnings, but will also increase our exposure to liability for benefit claims. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with a modification of benefit features and derivative instruments to attempt to minimize the claim exposure and to reduce the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability.  Adjustments to our risk management program may result in greater statutory and U.S. GAAP earnings volatility and, based upon the types of hedging instruments used, can result in potentially material charges to net income (loss) in periods of rising equity market pricing levels, higher interest rates and  declines in volatility. While we believe that these actions would improve the efficiency of our risk management related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay and, in turn, may need additional capital to support in-force business. We are also subject to the risk that these management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or collectively may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Regulatory and Legal Risks  The impact of regulatory initiatives and legislative developments, including the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Regulatory initiatives and legislative developments may significantly affect our operations and prospects in ways that we cannot predict. U.S. and overseas governmental and regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve"), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the NYSE and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) are considering enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future financial crises or otherwise stabilize the institutions under their supervision. Such measures are likely to lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important companies in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions and restrictions on employee compensation.22The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, mandating changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act is ongoing and may affect our operations and governance in ways that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires central clearing of, and imposes new margin requirements on, certain derivatives transactions, which increases the costs of our hedging program. Other provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact us include: the new “Federal Insurance Office” within Treasury; the possible adverse impact on the pricing and liquidity of the securities in which we invest resulting from the proprietary trading and market making limitation of the Volcker Rule; the possible adverse impact on the market for insurance-linked securities, including catastrophe bonds, resulting from the limitations of banking entity involvement in and ownership of certain asset-backed securities transactions; and enhancements to corporate governance, especially regarding risk management.The Dodd-Frank Act vests the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) with the power to designate “systemically important” institutions, which will be subject to special regulatory supervision and other provisions intended to prevent, or mitigate the impact of, future disruptions in the U.S. financial system. Based on its most current financial data, The Hartford is below the quantitative thresholds used by the FSOC to determine which nonbank companies merit consideration. However, the FSOC has indicted it will review on a quarterly basis whether nonbank financial institutions meet the metrics for further review. If we were to be designated as a systemically important institution, we could be subject to heightened regulation under the Federal Reserve, which could impact requirements regarding our capital, liquidity and leverage as well as our business and investment conduct. In addition, we could be subject to assessments to pay for the orderly liquidation of other systemically important financial institutions that have become insolvent. As a result of these requirements, we could incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may experience unfavorable judicial or legislative developments involving claim litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. The Company is also involved in legal actions that do not arise in the ordinary course of business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts. Pervasive or significant changes in the judicial environment relating to matters such as trends in the size of jury awards, developments in the law relating to the liability of insurers or tort defendants, and rulings concerning the availability or amount of certain types of damages could cause our ultimate liabilities to change from our current expectations. Changes in federal or state tort litigation laws or other applicable law could have a similar effect. It is not possible to predict changes in the judicial and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of the adequacy of our loss reserves, particularly reserves for longer-tailed lines of business, including asbestos and environmental reserves, and how those changes might adversely affect our ability to price our products appropriately. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could also be adversely affected if judicial or legislative developments cause our ultimate liabilities to increase from current expectations.Potential changes in regulation may increase our business costs and required capital levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are complex, subject to change and often conflicting in their approach or intended outcomes. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and can affect our strategy, as well as the demand for and profitability of the products we offer.State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled, licensed or authorized to conduct business. These regulatory regimes are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than insurers, their shareholders and other investors. U.S. state laws grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things, licensing and authorization for lines of business, statutory capital and reserve requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer's business.In addition, future regulatory initiatives could be adopted at the federal or state level that could impact the profitability of our businesses. For example, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are continually reexamining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to statutory accounting principles, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. The NAIC has undertaken a Solvency Modernization Initiative focused on updating the U.S. insurance solvency regulation framework, including capital requirements, governance and risk management, group supervision, accounting and financial reporting and reinsurance. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives, if adopted, may be more restrictive on our ability to conduct business than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs or increased statutory capital and reserve requirements.23Further, because these laws and regulations are complex and sometimes inexact, there is also a risk that our business may not fully comply with a particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal, accounting, or reserving issue or that such regulator’s or enforcement authority’s interpretation may change over time to our detriment, or expose us to different or additional regulatory risks. The application of these regulations and guidelines by insurers involves interpretations and judgments that may not be consistent with the opinion of state insurance departments. We cannot provide assurance that such differences of opinion will not result in regulatory, tax or other challenges to the actions we have taken to date. The result of those potential challenges could require us to increase levels of statutory capital and reserves or incur higher operating and/or tax costs.In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in which they operate which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with similar related restrictions and obligations. Our asset management businesses are also subject to extensive regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, time consuming and personnel intensive, and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. See the risk factor, “The impact of regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.”Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Changes in federal or state tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition, and could result in our incurring materially higher corporate taxes. Higher tax rates may cause small businesses to hire fewer workers and decrease investment in their businesses, including purchasing vehicles, property and equipment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Conversely, if income tax rates decline it could adversely affect the Company's ability to realize the benefits of its deferred tax assets.In addition, the Company’s tax return reflects certain items, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions. There is an increasing risk that, in the context of deficit reduction or overall tax reform, federal and/or state tax legislation could modify or eliminate these items, impacting the Company, its investments, investment strategies, and/or its policyholders. Although the specific form of any such legislation is uncertain, changes to the taxation of municipal bond interest could materially and adversely impact the value of those bonds, limit our investment choices and depress portfolio yield. Elimination of the dividends received deduction or changes to the taxation of reserving methodologies for P&C companies could increase the Company’s actual tax rate, thereby reducing earnings. Moreover, many of the products that the Company previously sold benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company previously sold annuity contracts that allowed policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. Because the Company no longer sells these products, changes in the future taxation of life insurance and/or annuity contracts will not adversely impact future sales. If, however, the treatment of earnings accrued inside an annuity contract was changed prospectively, and the tax-favored status of existing contracts was grandfathered, holders of existing contracts would be less likely to surrender, which would make running off our existing annuity business more difficult.Regulatory requirements could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where the domestic insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the acquirer's plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer, and any such additional information as the insurance commissioner may deem necessary or appropriate for the protection of policyholders or in the public interest. Generally, state statutes provide that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10 percent or more of the voting securities of the domestic insurer or its parent company. Because a person acquiring 10 percent or more of our Common Stock would indirectly control the same percentage of the stock of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, the insurance change of control laws of various U.S. jurisdictions would likely apply to such a transaction. Other laws or required approvals pertaining to one or more of our existing subsidiaries, or a future subsidiary, may contain similar or additional restrictions on the acquisition of control of the Company. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control, including transactions that our Board of Directors and some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.24Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material changes to our reported results of operations and financial condition.U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S. GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. Moreover, the SEC is currently evaluating International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to determine whether IFRS should be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. issuers. Certain of these standards could result in material changes to our reported results of operations.Other Operational Risks The ability to execute on our capital management plan, expense reduction initiatives and other actions, which may include acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings, is subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The ability to execute on our capital management plan remains subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks. We may not achieve all of the benefits we expect to derive from our plan to repurchase our equity and reduce our debt. Our capital management plan is subject to execution risks, including, among others, risks related to market fluctuations and investor interest and potential legal constraints that could delay execution at an otherwise optimal time. There can be no assurance that we will in fact complete our capital management plan over the planned time frame or at all. Initiatives to reduce expenses so that our ongoing businesses remain or become cost efficient may not be successful and we may not be able to reduce corporate and shared services expenses in the manner and on the schedule we currently anticipate. We may take further actions beyond the capital management plan, which may include acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings, that may involve additional uncertainties and risks that negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Our principal competitors are other property and casualty insurers, group benefits providers and other mutual fund companies. Larger competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively. These highly competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services and may harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Because of the highly competitive nature of these industries, there can be no assurance that we will continue to compete effectively with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We may experience difficulty in marketing, distributing and providing investment advisory services in relation to our products through current and future distribution channels and advisory firms. We distribute our insurance products and mutual funds through a variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third-party organizations. In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through or in connection with individual third-party arrangements. For example, we market personal lines products in large part through an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues through January 1, 2023. Our ability to distribute products through affinity partners may be adversely impacted by membership levels and the pace of membership growth. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties, including potentially as a result of a strategic transaction or other Company initiatives, could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.We use computer systems to process, store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn, interface with and rely upon third-party systems or maintenance. Our business is highly dependent on our ability, and the ability of certain third parties, to access our systems to perform necessary business functions, including, without limitation, conducting our financial reporting and analysis, providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering variable annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support and managing our investment portfolios and hedging programs.25Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform our business functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, a pandemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a terrorist attack (including conventional, nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological) or war, systems upon which we rely may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees and business partners are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems used to conduct our business are disabled or destroyed.Moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer related penetrations.  The frequency and sophistication of such threats continue to increase as well.  While, to date, The Hartford is not aware of having experienced a material breach of our cybersecurity systems, administrative and technical controls as well as other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, denial of service, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we do business. Such an event could compromise our confidential information as well as that of our clients and third parties, with whom we interact, impede or interrupt our business operations and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, additional regulatory scrutiny and litigation and reputational damage. In addition, we routinely transmit, to third parties personal, confidential and proprietary information, which may be related to employees and customers, by email and other electronic means, along with receiving and storing such information on our systems. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential, we may be unable to utilize such capabilities in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect confidential information.Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union, Japan or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others. A misuse or mishandling of confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from an employee or third party could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.Third parties to whom we outsource certain of our functions, including but not limited to third party administrators, are also subject to cyber-breaches of confidential information, along with  the other risks outlined above, any one of which may result in our incurring substantial costs and other negative consequences, including a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third party liability and first party insurance coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all loss.Our framework for managing operational risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us that could adversely affect our businesses.Our business performance is highly dependent on our ability to manage operational risks that arise from a large number of day-to-day business activities, including insurance underwriting, claims processing, servicing, investment, financial and tax reporting, compliance with regulatory requirements and other activities, many of which are very complex and for some of which we rely on third parties.   In addition, information technology investments we have made or plan to make in order to improve our operations are subject to material challenges, uncertainties and risks which may adversely impact our ability to achieve the anticipated business growth, expense reduction and operational efficiencies.  We seek to monitor and control our exposure to risks arising out of these activities through a risk control framework encompassing a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. We cannot be completely confident that these processes and procedures will effectively control all known risks or effectively identify unforeseen risks, or that our employees and third-party agents will effectively implement them. Management of operational risks can fail for a number of reasons, including design failure, systems failure, failures to perform, cyber security attacks, human error, or unlawful activities on the part of employees or third parties. In the event that our controls are not effective or not properly implemented, we could suffer financial or other loss, disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation. Losses resulting from these failures can vary significantly in size, scope and scale and may have material adverse effects on our financial condition or results of operations.26If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing and similar third-party relationships, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third-party vendors to provide certain services on our behalf. As we continue to focus on reducing the expense necessary to support our operations, we have become increasingly committed to outsourcing strategies for certain technology and business functions. We have also taken action to reduce coordination costs and take advantage of economies of scale by transitioning multiple functions and services to a small number of third-party providers. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. If our continuing relationship with certain third-party providers, particularly those on which we rely for multiple functions or services, is interrupted, or if such third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a transition, we may experience operational difficulties, an inability to meet obligations (including, but not limited to, policyholder obligations), increased costs and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For other risks associated with our outsourcing of certain functions, see the risk factor, “If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data due to the occurrence of disasters or a cyber or other information security incident, our ability to conduct business may be compromised, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.”We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that could be infringed by our products, systems, methods, processes or services. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may be subject to patent claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, trade secret or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed a third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, systems, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Item 1B