Item 1A of this report
and under “Cautionary Statements” in Item 7 of this report.  Shareholders, potential investors, and other
readers are urged to consider these factors in evaluating the forward-looking
statements and cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking
statements.  The forward-looking
statements included in this report are made only as of the date of the filing
of this report (February 22, 2008), and the Company disclaims any
obligation to publicly update such forward-looking statements to reflect
subsequent events or circumstances.

 

Item 1.  Business

 

Harley-Davidson, Inc.
was incorporated in 1981, at which time it purchased the Harley-Davidson®
motorcycle business from AMF Incorporated in a management buyout.  In 1986, Harley-Davidson, Inc. became
publicly held.  Unless the context
otherwise requires, all references to the “Company” include Harley-Davidson, Inc.
and all of its subsidiaries.  The Company
operates in two segments: the Motorcycles & Related Products segment
and the Financial Services segment.  The
Company’s reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different
products and services.  They are managed
separately based on the fundamental differences in their operations.

 

The
Motorcycles & Related Products (Motorcycles) segment includes the
group of companies doing business as Harley-Davidson Motor Company (Motor
Company) and the group of companies doing business as Buell Motorcycle Company
(Buell).  The Motorcycles segment
designs, manufactures and sells at wholesale primarily heavyweight (engine
displacement of 651+cc) touring, custom and performance motorcycles as well as
a line of motorcycle parts, accessories, general merchandise and related
services.  The Company, which is the only
major American motorcycle manufacturer, has had the largest share of the United
States heavyweight (651+cc) motorcycle market since 1986.  During 2007, the Company’s market share, based
on retail registrations of new 
Harley-Davidson motorcycles, was 48.7% in the United States (see page 9,
U.S. Heavyweight Motorcycle Registration Data).

 

The
Financial Services (Financial Services) segment includes the group of companies
doing business as Harley-Davidson Financial Services (HDFS).  HDFS provides wholesale and retail financing
and insurance and insurance-related programs primarily to 
Harley-Davidson and Buell dealers and their retail customers.  HDFS conducts business in the United States,
Canada and Europe.

 

See
Note 11 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial
information related to the Company’s business segments.

 

3












 

Motorcycles
and Related Products

 

Motorcycles – The primary business of the Motorcycles
segment is to design and manufacture premium motorcycles for the heavyweight
market and sell them at wholesale.  The
Company is best known for its Harley-Davidson motorcycle products, but also
offers a line of motorcycles and related products under the Buell brand
name.  The Company’s worldwide motorcycle
sales generated approximately 80% of the total net revenue in the Motorcycles
segment during each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

 

The
Motor Company’s Harley-Davidson branded motorcycle products emphasize
traditional styling, design simplicity, durability and quality.  The Motor Company manufactures five families
of motorcycles: Touring, Dyna™, Softail®, Sportster®, and
VRSC™.  The first four of these
motorcycle families are powered by an air-cooled, twin-cylinder engine with a
45-degree “V” configuration.  The VRSC
family is powered by a liquid-cooled, twin-cylinder engine with a 60-degree “V”
configuration.  The Motor Company’s
Harley-Davidson engines range in size from 883cc’s to 1803cc’s.

 

The
Motor Company’s 2008 model year includes 31 domestic models of Harley-Davidson
heavyweight motorcycles, with domestic manufacturer’s suggested retail prices
ranging from $6,695 to $23,270.  The
Motor Company also offers limited-edition, factory-custom motorcycles through
its Custom Vehicle Operation (CVO) program. 
Motorcycles sold through the CVO program are available in limited
quantities and offer unique features, paint schemes and accessories.  The Motor Company currently has four motorcycle
model offerings available through the CVO program with domestic manufacturer’s
suggested retail prices ranging from $24,995 to $35,490.

 

The
average U.S. retail purchaser of a new Harley-Davidson motorcycle is a married
male in his mid to late forties (nearly two-thirds of U.S. retail purchasers of
new Harley-Davidson motorcycles are between the ages of 35 and 54) with a
median household income of approximately $84,300.  Nearly three-quarters of the U.S. retail sales
of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles are to buyers with at least one year of
education beyond high school and 30% of the buyers have college degrees.  Approximately 12% of U.S. retail motorcycle sales
of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles are to female buyers.  (Source: 2007 Company studies)

 

The
Company’s Buell® motorcycle products emphasize innovative design,
responsive handling and overall performance. 
Buell currently manufactures and sells ten models, including eight heavyweight
models in its XB family, one liquid-cooled engine motorcycle known as the 1125R
and the Blast®.  The Buell XB
motorcycles focus on superior handling and are powered by either a 984cc (XB9)
or a 1203cc (XB12) air-cooled, twin-cylinder engine with a 45-degree “V”
configuration.  The Buell XB motorcycle
models have domestic manufacturer’s suggested retail prices ranging from $8,895
to $12,995.  The 1125R, introduced in
2007, is a high-performance sportbike featuring a liquid-cooled engine while
retaining Buell styling and character.  The
1125R has a manufacturer’s suggested retail price of $11,995.  The Buell Blast is smaller and less expensive
than the Buell XB models and is powered by a 492cc single-cylinder engine.  The Blast, which competes in the standard
market segment, has a domestic manufacturer’s suggested retail price of $4,695.

 

Buell
attracts customers in the demographic age range of 25 to 55.  The average U.S. retail purchaser of a new
Buell XB motorcycle is a forty-year old male. 
The majority of new Buell owners have a median household income of approximately
$80,900.  Approximately 7% of all new
Buell XB U.S. retail motorcycle sales are to females.  (Source: 2007 Company studies)

 

The
total motorcycle market, including the heavyweight portion of the market, is
comprised of the following four segments:

 

·                  standard (emphasizes simplicity and cost)

·                  performance (emphasizes handling and
acceleration)

·                  custom (emphasizes styling and individual
owner customization)

·                  touring (emphasizes comfort and amenities for
long-distance travel)

 

The
touring segment of the heavyweight market was pioneered by the Company and
includes the Harley-

 

4












 

Davidson
Touring family of motorcycles which are equipped with fairings, windshields,
saddlebags and/or Tour Pak® luggage carriers.  The custom segment of the market includes
motorcycles featuring the distinctive styling associated with classic
Harley-Davidson motorcycles and includes the Company’s Dyna, Softail and VRSC motorcycle
families as well as a portion of the motorcycles in the Sportster family.  The Company’s Sportster family also serves the
standard segment of the market along with the Buell Blast.  The Buell XB family and the 1125R serve the
performance segment of the market.

 

In
the United States, suggested retail prices for the Company’s Harley-Davidson
motorcycles range from being comparable to moderately higher than suggested
retail prices for comparable motorcycles available in the market.  Although there are some differences in
accessories between the Company’s top-of-the-line touring motorcycles and those
of its competitors, suggested retail prices for these motorcycles are generally
comparable.  The Company’s
larger-displacement custom motorcycles (Dyna, Softail and VRSC) represent its
highest unit volumes.  The Company
believes its larger-displacement custom products continue to command a premium price
because of the features, styling and strong resale value associated with
Harley-Davidson custom products.  The
Company’s smallest displacement custom motorcycle (the 883cc Sportster) is
price competitive with comparable motorcycles available in the market.

 

The
Company’s 2007 surveys of retail purchasers in the United States indicate that three-quarters
of the retail purchasers of its Sportster models either have previously owned
competitive-brand motorcycles or are completely new to the sport of
motorcycling.  The Company expects to see
sales of its Sportster models lead to future sales of its higher-priced models.

 

Since
1988, the Company’s research has consistently shown that retail purchasers of
new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the United States have a repurchase intent
at or in excess of 80%.  Research
completed by the Company in 2007 shows that approximately 52% of all retail
purchasers of new Harley-Davidson motorcycles in the United States had
previously owned a Harley-Davidson motorcycle.

 

Parts &
Accessories – The
major Parts and Accessories (P&A) products are replacement parts (Genuine
Motor Parts) and mechanical and cosmetic accessories (Genuine Motor Accessories).  Worldwide P&A net revenue comprised 15.2%,
14.9% and 15.3% of net revenue in the Motorcycles segment in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

 

General
Merchandise –
Worldwide General Merchandise net revenue, which includes MotorClothesTM
apparel and collectibles, comprised 5.3%, 4.8% and 4.6% of net revenue in the
Motorcycles segment in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

 

Licensing – The Company creates an awareness of the
Harley-Davidson brand among its customers and the non-riding public through a
wide range of products for enthusiasts by licensing the name “Harley-Davidson”
and other trademarks owned by the Company. 
The Company’s licensed products include t-shirts, vehicle and vehicle
accessories, jewelry, small leather goods, toys and numerous other
products.  The Company also licenses the
use of its name in connection with a cafe located in Las Vegas, Nevada.  Although the majority of licensing activity
occurs in the U.S., the Company continues to expand these activities in
international markets.  Royalty revenues
from licensing, included in Motorcycles segment net revenue, were $46.0 million,
$45.5 million and $43.0 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

 

Other
Services – The
Company also provides a variety of services to its independent dealers
including service and business management training programs, customized dealer
software packages and delivery of its motorcycles.

 

Motorcycle
rental and tour programs and Riders Edge®, the Company’s rider
training program, are available through the Company’s independent dealers.

 

Patents
and Trademarks – The
Company strategically manages its portfolio of patents, trade secrets,
copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property.

 

5












 

The
Company and its subsidiaries own, and continue to obtain, patent rights that
relate to its motorcycles and related products and processes for their
production.  Certain technology-related
intellectual property is also protected, where appropriate, by license agreements,
confidentiality agreements or other agreements with suppliers, employees and
other third parties.  The Company
diligently protects its intellectual property, including patents and trade
secrets, and its rights to innovative and proprietary technology. This
protection, including enforcement, is important as the Company moves forward
with investments in new products, designs and technologies.  While the Company believes patents are
important to its business operations and in the aggregate constitute a valuable
asset, the success of the business is not dependent on any one patent or group
of patents.  A patent review committee of
the Motor Company and Buell, which is comprised of a number of key executives,
manages the Company’s patent strategy and portfolio.

 

Trademarks
are important to the Company’s motorcycle business and licensing
activities.  The Company has a vigorous
worldwide program of trademark registration and enforcement to maintain and
strengthen the value of the trademarks and prevent the unauthorized use of
those trademarks.  The HARLEY-DAVIDSON
trademark and the Bar and Shield trademark are each highly recognizable to the
public and are very valuable assets.  The
BUELL trademark is well-known in performance motorcycle circles, as is the
associated Pegasus logo.  Additionally,
the Company uses numerous other trademarks, trade names and logos which are
registered worldwide.  The following are
among the Company’s trademarks: HARLEY-DAVIDSON, H-D, HARLEY, the Bar &
Shield Logo, MOTORCLOTHES, the MotorClothes Logo, RIDER’S EDGE, HARLEY OWNERS
GROUP, H.O.G., the H.O.G. Logo, SOFTAIL, SPORTSTER, V-ROD, BUELL and the
Pegasus Logo.  The HARLEY-DAVIDSON
trademark has been used since 1903 and the Bar and Shield trademark since at
least 1910.  The BUELL trademark has been
used since 1984.  All of the Company’s
trademarks are owned by H-D Michigan, Inc, a subsidiary of the Company, which
also manages the Company’s trademark strategy and portfolio.

 

Marketing – The Company’s products are marketed to
retail customers primarily through promotions, customer events and advertising
through national television, print, radio and direct mailings, as well as
internet advertising. Additionally, regional marketing efforts are accomplished
through a cooperative program with its independent dealers.  The Company also sponsors racing activities
and special promotional events and participates in many major motorcycle
consumer shows and rallies.

 

On
an ongoing basis, the Company promotes its products and the related lifestyle through
the Harley Owners Group®, or H.O.G.®  H.O.G. has over one million members worldwide
and is the industry’s largest company-sponsored motorcycle enthusiast
organization.  The Company formed the
Harley Owners Group in 1983 in an effort to encourage Harley-Davidson owners to
become more actively involved in the sport of motorcycling.  This group also sponsors many motorcycle
events, including rallies and rides for Harley-Davidson motorcycle enthusiasts
throughout the world.

 

In
2000, Rider’s Edge® – the Harley-Davidson Academy of Motorcycling
was formed. The Rider’s Edgeâ New Rider Course is the first in the series
of rider education experiences within the Academy. Developed to reach
non-riders, it provides an entry point into the sport of motorcycling by
teaching basic motorcycling skills and knowledge in a way that is fun and
involving.  The New Rider Course is
conducted by a network of select Harley-Davidson dealerships nationwide
enabling students to experience the Harley-Davidson lifestyle, environment,
people, and products as they learn.

 

In 2008, the Company will open the Harley-Davidson Museum in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin to deliver a unique experience that builds and strengthens bonds
between riders and the Company, and enhances the brand among the public at
large. The 130,000 square foot facility will house the Harley-Davidson Museum
and Archives, a restaurant, café, retail store and special event space.  The Museum gives the Company a new way to
create memories for customers – through visiting, planning rides and hosting
special events at the Museum.

 

The
Company website (www.harley-davidson.com) is also utilized to market its
products and services.  The website
features an online catalog which allows retail customers to create and share
product wish lists, utilize a dealer locator and place catalog orders.  Internet orders are sold and fulfilled by the
participating authorized Harley-Davidson dealer selected by the retail customer.
 Dealers also handle any after-sale
services that retail 

 

6












 

customers
may require.

 

International
Sales – The Company’s
revenue from the sale of motorcycles and related products to independent
dealers and distributors located outside of the United States was approximately
$1.52 billion, $1.18 billion and $1.04 billion, or approximately 27%, 20% and 19%
of net revenue of the Motorcycles segment, during 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

 

Distribution-United
States – In the
United States, the Company distributes its motorcycles and related products to
a network of independently-owned full-service Harley-Davidson dealerships and
the Overseas Military Sales Corporation, an entity that retails the Company’s
products to members of the U.S. military. 
The Company distributes its motorcycles to its dealers in the U.S. based
on dealer orders but subject to an allocation system.  During the second quarter of 2007, the
Company introduced a new U.S. motorcycle allocation system that was designed to
be more forward-looking and market-driven than the previous system.  The Company believes the new allocation
process will better align the distribution of motorcycles with the demand in
individual dealer markets.

 

In
the U.S., there are approximately 684 independently-owned full-service
Harley-Davidson dealerships.  The U.S.
independent dealer network includes 307 combined Harley-Davidson and Buell
dealerships.  With respect to sales of
new motorcycles, approximately 80% of the U.S. dealerships sell the Company’s
motorcycles exclusively.  All independent
dealerships stock and sell the Company’s P&A, general merchandise and
licensed products, and perform service for the Company’s motorcycles.  The Company’s independent dealers also sell a
smaller portion of P&A, general merchandise and licensed products through “non-traditional”
retail outlets.  The “non-traditional”
outlets, which are extensions of the main dealership, consist of Secondary
Retail Locations (SRLs), Alternate Retail Outlets (AROs), and Seasonal Retail
Outlets (SROs).  SRLs are satellites of
the main dealership and are developed to meet additional retail and service
needs of the Company’s riding customers.  SRLs also provide P&A, general merchandise
and licensed products and are authorized to sell and service new
motorcycles.  AROs are located primarily
in high traffic locations such as malls, airports or popular vacation
destinations and focus on selling the Company’s general merchandise and
licensed products.  SROs are located in
similar high traffic areas, but operate on a seasonal basis out of temporary
locations such as vendor kiosks.  AROs
and SROs are not authorized to sell new motorcycles.  There are approximately 104 SRLs, 68 AROs and
12 SROs located in the United States.

 

Distribution-Europe – In the European region (consisting of Europe,
the Middle East and Africa), the Company’s sales, marketing and distribution of
product is managed from its subsidiary located in Oxford, England and sales
offices in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Spain and
Switzerland.  In the European region, the
Company sells its products at wholesale to a network of 7 independent
distributors and 370  independent
Harley-Davidson dealerships serving 32 country markets.  The European dealer network includes 323  combined Harley-Davidson and Buell dealerships.  Buell is further represented by 4  independent  dealerships
that do not sell Harley-Davidson motorcycles. 
In addition, the Company’s dealer network includes 20  AROs across Europe. 
The opening of a new sales office in South Africa early in 2008 was
announced shortly before the end of 2007.

 

Distribution-Asia/Pacific –In Japan, the Company’s sales, marketing,
and distribution of product is managed from its subsidiary in Tokyo, which
sells motorcycles and related products at wholesale to a network of 130 independent
Harley-Davidson dealers.  This includes 57  combined Harley-Davidson and Buell dealerships.  Buell is further represented by 3  dealerships that do not sell Harley-Davidson motorcycles.

 

The
Company’s sales, marketing and distribution of motorcycles and related products
in Australia and New Zealand is managed from its subsidiary in Sydney,
Australia.  The subsidiary sells to a
network of 49 independent Harley-Davidson dealers which includes 32 combined
Harley-Davidson and Buell dealerships.

 

The
Company distributes its product directly from its U.S. operations to the
remaining 15 Asia/Pacific dealers and distributors located throughout East and
Southeast Asia.

 

Distribution-Latin
America – The Company
distributes all products sold in the Latin America region to independent
dealers either through Company-owned subsidiaries in Mexico and Brazil, or from
its U.S.

 

7












 

operations
for the remaining Latin American markets in which its motorcycles are sold.  Brazil is the Company’s largest market in
Latin America and is served by 10 dealerships. 
Mexico, the region’s second largest market, has 11 dealerships and three
SRLs.  The remaining countries in the
Latin America region are served by 25 dealerships.

 

Distribution-Canada – In Canada, the Company sells its
motorcycles and related products at wholesale to a single independent distributor, Deeley
Harley-Davidson Canada/Fred Deeley Imports Ltd.  There are approximately 74 independent
Harley-Davidson dealerships, two SRLs, eight AROs and one SRO.  In addition, 45 of the 74 dealerships are
combined Harley-Davidson and Buell dealerships.

 

Seasonality – The timing of retail purchases from the
Company’s independent dealers tracks closely with regional riding seasons,
requiring the Company and its independent dealers to balance the economies of
level production with a more seasonal retail sales pattern.  In general, the Motor Company has not
experienced the same degree of seasonal fluctuations in its wholesale sales
that its independent dealers have experienced. 
The Company’s domestic independent dealers typically build their
inventory levels in the late fall and winter in anticipation of the spring and
summer selling seasons.  The availability
of floor plan financing and, in the U.S., Company-sponsored financing
assistance allows dealers to manage these seasonal increases in inventory.

 

Retail
Customer and Dealer Financing – The Company believes that HDFS, as well as other financial services
companies, provide adequate financing to the Company’s independent
distributors, dealers and their retail customers.  HDFS provides financing to the Company’s
independent distributors, dealers and to the retail customers of those dealers
in the U.S. and Canada.  Through December 2007,
HDFS also provided wholesale financing to many of the Company’s independent
dealers in Europe.  The Company’s independent
distributors, dealers and their retail customers in the Asia/Pacific and Latin
America regions are not serviced by HDFS, but have access to financing though
other established financial services companies.

 

Competition – The heavyweight (651+cc) motorcycle market
is highly competitive.  The Company’s
major competitors are based outside the U.S. and generally have financial and
marketing resources that are substantially greater than those of the
Company.  They also have larger worldwide
revenue and are more diversified than the Company and compete in all four
segments of the market.  In addition to
these larger, established competitors, the Company has competitors
headquartered in the United States. 
These competitors generally offer heavyweight motorcycles with
traditional styling that compete directly with many of the Company’s
products.  These competitors currently
have production and sales volumes that are lower than the Company’s and have considerably
lower domestic market share than the Company.

 

Competition
in the heavyweight motorcycle market is based upon a number of factors,
including price, quality, reliability, styling, product features, customer
preference and warranties.  The Company
emphasizes quality, reliability and styling in its products and generally offers
a two-year warranty for its motorcycles. 
The Company regards its support of the motorcycling lifestyle in the
form of events, rides, rallies and H.O.G. and its financing through HDFS as
competitive advantages.  In recent years
the Company has improved the availability of its motorcycles at its independent
dealers with the objective of improving the customer experience and the Company’s
competitive position.  The Company
believes that the increased availability has resulted in independent dealers
providing wider selections of motorcycles at or near manufacturer’s suggested
retail prices which have also put pressure on the Company’s used motorcycle
prices (measured as a percentage of the manufacturer’s suggested retail price
when new).  In addition, the Company
introduced a new engine on many of its motorcycles beginning with the 2007 model
year which has impacted the Company’s used motorcycle prices. (Source: 2007
Company data)

 

Domestically,
the Company competes most heavily in the touring and custom segments of the
heavyweight motorcycle market.  According
to the Motorcycle Industry Council, these segments accounted for approximately 80%,
79% and 80% of total heavyweight retail unit registrations in the United States
during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 
The larger-displacement custom and touring motorcycles are generally the
most expensive vehicles in the market and the most profitable for the
Company.  During 2007, the heavyweight
portion of the market represented approximately 54% of the total U.S.
motorcycle market (on- and off-highway motorcycles and scooters) in terms of
new units registered.

 

8












 

For
the last 20 years, the Company has led the industry in the United States for
retail unit registrations of new heavyweight motorcycles.  The Company’s (Harley-Davidson motorcycles
only) share of the heavyweight market was 48.7% and 49.3% in 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  This share is
significantly greater than that of the Company’s largest competitor in the
domestic market which had a 14.2% market share in 2007.

 

The
following chart includes U.S. retail registration data for the Company and its
major competitors for the years 2003 through 2007:

 

U.S. Heavyweight Motorcycle Registration Data(a)

(Engine Displacement of 651+cc)

(Units in thousands)

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total market new registrations
  
  
   
  
  
  516.1
  
  
   
  
  
  543.0
  
  
   
  
  
  517.6
  
  
   
  
  
  494.0
  
  
   
  
  
  461.2
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Harley-Davidson new registrations
  
  
   
  
  
  251.4
  
  
   
  
  
  267.9
  
  
   
  
  
  252.9
  
  
   
  
  
  244.5
  
  
   
  
  
  228.4
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Buell new registrations
  
  
   
  
  
  3.7
  
  
   
  
  
  3.8
  
  
   
  
  
  3.6
  
  
   
  
  
  3.6
  
  
   
  
  
  3.5
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Company new registrations
  
  
   
  
  
  255.1
  
  
   
  
  
  271.7
  
  
   
  
  
  256.5
  
  
   
  
  
  248.1
  
  
   
  
  
  231.9
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Percentage Market Share:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Harley-Davidson motorcycles
  
  
   
  
  
  48.7
  
  
  %
  
  
  49.3
  
  
  %
  
  
  48.9
  
  
  %
  
  
  49.5
  
  
  %
  
  
  49.5
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Buell motorcycles
  
  
   
  
  
  0.7
  
  
   
  
  
  0.7
  
  
   
  
  
  0.7
  
  
   
  
  
  0.7
  
  
   
  
  
  0.8
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Company
  
  
   
  
  
  49.4
  
  
   
  
  
  50.0
  
  
   
  
  
  49.6
  
  
   
  
  
  50.2
  
  
   
  
  
  50.3
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Honda
  
  
   
  
  
  14.2
  
  
   
  
  
  15.1
  
  
   
  
  
  16.6
  
  
   
  
  
  18.7
  
  
   
  
  
  18.4
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Suzuki
  
  
   
  
  
  12.5
  
  
   
  
  
  12.9
  
  
   
  
  
  12.4
  
  
   
  
  
  10.2
  
  
   
  
  
  9.8
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Yamaha
  
  
   
  
  
  9.2
  
  
   
  
  
  8.6
  
  
   
  
  
  8.9
  
  
   
  
  
  8.7
  
  
   
  
  
  8.5
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Kawasaki
  
  
   
  
  
  7.2
  
  
   
  
  
  6.8
  
  
   
  
  
  6.5
  
  
   
  
  
  6.4
  
  
   
  
  
  6.7
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Other
  
  
   
  
  
  7.5
  
  
   
  
  
  6.6
  
  
   
  
  
  6.0
  
  
   
  
  
  5.8
  
  
   
  
  
  6.3
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total
  
  
   
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
 


 



(a)          United States industry data includes 651+cc
models derived from submission of motorcycle retail sales by each major
manufacturer to an independent third party. 
The retail registration data for Harley-Davidson motorcycles presented in
this table may differ slightly from the Harley-Davidson retail sales data
presented in Item 7 of this report.  The
Company’s source for retail sales data in Item 7 of this report is sales and
warranty registrations provided by Harley-Davidson dealers as compiled by the
Company.  The differences are not
significant and generally relate to the timing of data submissions to the
independent sources.

 

The
European heavyweight motorcycle market (as defined on the next page) is roughly
two-thirds of the size of the U.S. market; but unlike the domestic market, it
is comprised of the unique preferences of many individual countries.  For example, traditional U.S. touring
motorcycles represent less than 25% of the European heavyweight motorcycle
market.  The Company continues to expand
its product offerings to compete in the standard and performance segments with
motorcycles like the Nightster and the Buell 1125R.  The Company’s traditional Harley-Davidson
products compete primarily in the custom and touring segments.

 

9












 

The
following chart includes European retail registration data for the Company for
the years 2005 through 2007:

 

European Heavyweight Motorcycle Registration Data(a)

(Engine Displacement of 651+cc)

(Units in thousands)

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total market new registrations
  
  
   
  
  
  403.0
  
  
   
  
  
  376.8
  
  
   
  
  
  350.7
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Harley-Davidson new registrations
  
  
   
  
  
  38.7
  
  
   
  
  
  34.3
  
  
   
  
  
  29.7
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Buell new registrations
  
  
   
  
  
  4.6
  
  
   
  
  
  4.1
  
  
   
  
  
  4.6
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Company new registrations
  
  
   
  
  
  43.3
  
  
   
  
  
  38.4
  
  
   
  
  
  34.3
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Percentage Market Share:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Harley-Davidson motorcycles
  
  
   
  
  
  9.6
  
  
  %
  
  
  9.1
  
  
  %
  
  
  8.5
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Buell motorcycles
  
  
   
  
  
  1.1
  
  
   
  
  
  1.1
  
  
   
  
  
  1.3
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Company
  
  
   
  
  
  10.7
  
  
  %
  
  
  10.2
  
  
  %
  
  
  9.8
  
  
  %
  
 


 



(a)          Europe data includes retail sales in Austria,
Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.  The Company derives its market registration
data and market share calculations presented above from information provided by
Giral S.A., an independent agency.  The
retail registration data for Harley-Davidson motorcycles presented in this
table may differ slightly from the Harley-Davidson retail sales data presented
in Item 7 of this report.  The Company’s
source for retail sales data in Item 7 of this report is sales and warranty
registrations provided by Harley-Davidson dealers as compiled by the Company.  The differences are not significant and
generally relate to the timing of data submissions to the independent sources.

 

The
Company also competes in several other markets around the world.  The most significant of these markets, based
on Company data, are Canada, Japan and Australia.  In Canada, the Company’s market share based
on registrations was 39.0%, 38.2% and 32.7% during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively
(Source: Moped and Motorcycle Industry of Canada).  Market share information for the remaining
international markets has not been presented because the Company does not
believe that definitive and reliable registration data is available at this
time.

 

Motorcycle
Manufacturing – The
Motor Company’s ongoing manufacturing strategy is designed to increase
capacity, improve product quality, increase productivity, reduce costs and
increase flexibility to respond to changes in the marketplace. The Motor
Company incorporates manufacturing techniques focused on continuously pursuing
process improvements and innovation.  The
Motor Company refers to these techniques as operational excellence and they
include employee and supplier involvement, just-in-time inventory and lean
manufacturing principles, partnering agreements with the local unions, high
performance work organizations and statistical process control.

 

The
Motor Company’s use of lean manufacturing principles allows it to minimize its
inventories of raw materials and work in process, and minimize scrap and rework
costs.  This system also allows quicker
reaction to engineering design changes, quality improvements and market
demands.  The Motor Company continues to
train its manufacturing employees in problem solving and statistical methods.

 

Raw
Material and Purchased Components – The Company continues to establish and/or reinforce long-term,
mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers.  Through these collaborative relationships,
the Company gains access to technical and commercial resources for application
directly to product design, development and manufacturing initiatives.  This strategy has resulted in improved
product quality, technical integrity, application of new features and
innovations, reduced lead times for product development, and smoother/faster
manufacturing ramp-up of new vehicle introductions.  The Company’s continuing initiative to
improve supplier productivity and

 

10











 

component
cost has been instrumental in delivering improvement in cost and in partially offsetting
raw material commodity price pressures. 
The Company anticipates that its focus on collaboration and strong
supplier relationships will be beneficial to achieving cost improvement over
the long-term.

 

The
Company purchases all of its raw materials, principally steel and aluminum
castings, forgings, steel sheets and bars, and certain motorcycle components,
including electronic fuel injection systems, batteries, tires, seats,
electrical components and instruments. 
Given current economic conditions in certain raw material commodity
markets, and pressure on certain suppliers due to difficulties in the
automotive industry and U.S. manufacturing sector in general, the Company is
closely monitoring supply, availability and pricing for both its suppliers and
in-house operations.  However, at this
time, the Company does not anticipate any difficulties in obtaining raw
materials or components.

 

Research
and Development – The
Company believes research and development are significant factors in its
ability to lead the custom and touring motorcycling market and to develop
products for the performance segment. The Company’s Product Development Center
(PDC) brings employees from styling, purchasing and manufacturing together with
regulatory professionals and supplier representatives to create a concurrent
product and process development team. 
The Company incurred research and development expenses of $185.5
million, $177.7 million and $178.5 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

 

Regulation – Federal, state and local authorities have
various environmental control requirements relating to air, water and noise
pollution that affect the business and operations of the Company.  The Company strives to ensure that its
facilities and products comply with all applicable environmental regulations
and standards.

 

The
Company’s motorcycles are subject to certification by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) for compliance with applicable emissions and noise
standards and by the State of California Air Resources Board (CARB) with
respect to CARB’s more stringent emissions standards.  Company motorcycles sold in California are
also subject to evaporative emissions standards that are unique to
California.  The Company’s motorcycle
products have been certified to comply fully with all such applicable
standards. The EPA has finalized new tail pipe emission standards for 2006 and
2010, respectively, which are harmonized with the California emissions
standards.  Harley-Davidson motorcycle
products have been certified to the new EPA standards since 2006 and the
Company believes it will comply with future requirements when they go into effect.  Additionally, the Company’s motorcycle
products must and do in fact comply with the motorcycle emissions, noise and
safety standards of the European Union, Japan and certain other foreign markets
where they are sold. Because the Company expects that environmental standards
will become even more stringent over time, the Company will continue to incur
some level of research, development and production costs in this area for the
foreseeable future.  The Company does not
anticipate that any of these standards will have a materially adverse impact on
its capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

 

The
Company, as a manufacturer of motorcycle products, is subject to the National
Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, which is administered by the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). 
The Company has certified to NHTSA that its motorcycle products comply
fully with all applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards and related
regulations.  The Company has from time
to time initiated certain voluntary recalls. 
During the last three years, the Company has initiated 15 voluntary
recalls at a total cost of $10.8 million. 
The Company reserves for all estimated costs associated with recalls in
the period that the recalls are announced.

 

Employees – As of December 31, 2007, the
Motorcycles segment had approximately 9,000 employees.  Unionized employees at the motorcycle
manufacturing facilities in Wauwatosa and Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin and Kansas
City, Missouri are represented by the United Steelworkers of America (USW), as
well as the International Association of Machinist and Aerospace Workers
(IAM).  Unionized employees at the
distribution and manufacturing facilities in Franklin and Tomahawk, Wisconsin
are represented by the USW.  Production
workers at the motorcycle manufacturing facility in York, Pennsylvania are
represented by the IAM.  The collective
bargaining agreement with the Pennsylvania-IAM will expire on February 2, 2010,
the collective bargaining agreement with the Kansas City-USW and IAM will
expire on July 30, 2012, and the collective bargaining agreement with the
Wisconsin-USW and IAM will expire on March 31, 2008.

 

11












 

Internet
Access – The Company’s
internet website address is www.harley-davidson.com.  The Company makes available free of charge
(other than an investor’s own internet access charges) through its internet website
the Company’s Annual Report on Form 
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K,
and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after it
electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission. 
In addition, the Company makes available, through its website, the
following corporate governance materials: (a) the Harley-Davidson, Inc.
Corporate Governance Policy; (b) Committee Charters approved by the
Harley-Davidson, Inc. Board of Directors for the Audit Committee, Human
Resources Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; (c) the
Company’s Financial Code of Ethics; (d) the Company’s Code of Business
Conduct (the “Code of Conduct”) in seven languages including English; (e) the
Conflict of Interest Process for Directors, Executive Officers and other
employees of Harley-Davidson, Inc. (the “Conflict Process”); (f) a
list of the Company’s Board of Directors; (g) the Company’s By-laws; and (h) the
Harley-Davidson Environmental Policy.  This
information is also available from the Company upon request.  The Company satisfies the disclosure
requirements under the Code of Conduct, the Conflict Process and applicable New
York Stock Exchange listing requirements regarding waivers of the Code of
Conduct or the Conflict Process by disclosing the information in the Company’s
proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareholders or on the Company’s
website.  The Company is not including
the information contained on or available through its website as a part of, or
incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

12












 

Financial Services

 

HDFS
is engaged in the business of financing and servicing wholesale inventory
receivables and consumer retail loans (primarily for the purchase of the Company’s
motorcycles).  Additionally, HDFS is an
agent for certain unaffiliated insurance carriers providing property/casualty
insurance and also sells extended service contracts, gap coverage and debt
protection products to motorcycle owners. 
HDFS conducts business in the United States, Canada and Europe.

 

Harley-Davidson
and Buell – Operating
under the trade name Harley-Davidson Credit, HDFS provides wholesale financial
services to Harley-Davidson and Buell dealers and retail financing to
consumers.  Operating under the trade name Harley-Davidson Insurance, HDFS
is an agent for the sale of motorcycle insurance policies and also sells
extended service contracts, gap coverage and debt protection products.

 

Wholesale
financial services include floorplan and open account financing of motorcycles
and motorcycle parts and accessories.  HDFS offers wholesale financial
services to Harley-Davidson dealers in the U.S., Canada and Europe and during
2007 approximately 96% of such dealers utilized those services.  The wholesale finance operations of HDFS are located
in Plano, Texas and, until January 1, 2008, Oxford, England.  Effective January 1, 2008, the finance receivables
and related assets of the wholesale operations located in Oxford, England were
transferred at book value to Harley-Davidson Europe Ltd., a subsidiary of the
Motor Company.  Beginning in 2008, the
Motor Company will assume responsibility for the collection of all wholesale
receivables in Europe.

 

Retail
motorcycle financial services include installment lending for new and used
Harley-Davidson and Buell motorcycles. HDFS’ retail financial services are
available through most Harley-Davidson and Buell dealers in the United States
and Canada.  HDFS’ retail finance operations are located in Carson City,
Nevada and Plano, Texas.

 

Motorcycle
insurance, extended service contracts, gap coverage and debt protection
products that HDFS offers are available through most Harley-Davidson and Buell
dealers in the United States and Canada.  Motorcycle insurance that HDFS offers
is also marketed on a direct basis to motorcycle riders.  HDFS insurance
operations are located in Carson City, Nevada and Plano, Texas.

 

Funding – HDFS is financed by operating cash flow,
asset-backed securitizations, the issuance of commercial paper, revolving
credit facilities, medium-term notes, and the availability of advances and
loans from the Company.  In asset-backed securitizations, HDFS sells
retail motorcycle loans and records a gain or loss on the sale of those
loans.  HDFS also retains an interest in the excess cash flows from the
receivable and recognizes income on this retained interest.  After the
sale, HDFS performs billing, customer service and portfolio management services
for these loans and receives a servicing fee for providing these services.

 

Competition – The Company regards its ability to offer a
package of wholesale and retail financial services as a significant competitive
advantage for HDFS.  Competitors compete for business based largely on
price and, to a lesser extent, service. HDFS competes based on convenience,
service, brand association, dealer relations, industry experience, terms and
price.

 

During
2007, HDFS financed 55% of the new Harley-Davidson motorcycles retailed by
independent dealers in the United States, as compared to 48% in 2006. 
Competitors for retail motorcycle finance business are primarily banks, credit
unions and other financial institutions.  In the motorcycle insurance
business, competition primarily comes from national insurance companies and
from insurance agencies serving local or regional markets.  For
insurance-related products such as extended service contracts, HDFS faces
competition from certain regional and national industry participants as well as
dealer in-house programs.

 

Competition
for the wholesale motorcycle finance business is primarily banks and other
financial institutions providing wholesale financing to Harley-Davidson and
Buell dealers in their local markets.

 

Trademarks – HDFS uses various trademarks and trade
names for its financial services and products which are licensed from H-D
Michigan, Inc., including HARLEY-DAVIDSON, H-D and the Bar &
Shield logo.

 

13












 

Seasonality – In the northern United States and Canada,
motorcycles are primarily used during warmer months. Accordingly, HDFS
experiences seasonal variations.  From mid-March through August,
retail financing volume increases and wholesale financing volume decreases as
dealer inventories decline.  From September through mid-March, there
is a decrease in retail financing volume while dealer inventories build and
turn over more slowly, substantially increasing wholesale finance receivables.

 

Regulation – The operations of HDFS (both domestic and
foreign) are subject, in certain instances, to supervision and regulation by
state and federal administrative agencies and various foreign governmental
authorities.  Many of the statutory and regulatory requirements imposed by
such entities are in place to provide consumer protection as it pertains to the
selling of financial products and services.  Therefore, operations may be
subject to various regulations, laws and judicial and/or administrative
decisions imposing requirements and restrictions, which among other things: (1) regulate
credit granting activities, including establishing licensing requirements, in
applicable jurisdictions; (2) establish maximum interest rates, finance
charges and other charges; (3) regulate customers’ insurance coverage; (4) require
disclosure of credit and insurance terms to customers; (5) govern secured
transactions; (6) set collection, foreclosure, repossession and claims
handling procedures and other trade practices; (7) prohibit discrimination
in the extension of credit and administration of loans; (8) regulate the
use and reporting of information related to a borrower; (9) require
certain periodic reporting; and/or (10) govern the use and protection of
non-public personal information.

 

Depending
on the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations and the specific facts
and circumstances involved, violations of these laws may limit the ability of
HDFS to collect all or part of the principal or interest on applicable loans,
may entitle the borrower to rescind the loan or to obtain a refund of amounts
previously paid and, in addition, could subject HDFS to the payment of
damages or penalties and administrative sanctions, including “cease and desist”
orders.

 

Such
regulatory requirements and associated supervision could limit the discretion
of HDFS in operating its business.  Noncompliance with applicable statutes
or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any charter,
license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines,
criminal penalties and administrative sanctions.  The Company cannot
assure that the applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed
differently, that new laws and regulations will not be adopted or that interest
rates charged by HDFS will not rise to maximum levels permitted by law, the
effect of any of which could be to adversely affect the business of HDFS or its
results of operations.

 

A
subsidiary of HDFS, Eaglemark Savings Bank (ESB), is a Nevada state thrift
chartered as an Industrial Loan Company (ILC).  As such, the activities of
this subsidiary are governed by federal regulations and State of Nevada banking
laws and are subject to examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) and Nevada state bank examiners.  During 2002, ESB
began to originate retail loans and to sell the loans to a non-banking
subsidiary of HDFS.  This process allows HDFS to offer retail products
with common characteristics across the United States and to uniformly service
loans to domestic retail customers.

 

Employees – As of December 31, 2007, the
Financial Services segment had approximately 755 employees.  No employees
of HDFS are represented by labor unions.

 

14












 

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

 

An
investment in Harley-Davidson, Inc. involves risks, including those
discussed below.  These risk factors
should be considered carefully before deciding whether to invest in the
Company.

 

·                  The
Company sells its products at wholesale and must rely on a network of
independent dealers and distributors to manage the retail distribution of its
products.  The Company depends on the capability of its
independent dealers and distributors to develop and implement effective retail
sales plans to create demand for the motorcycles and related products and
services they purchase from the Company. If the Company’s independent dealers
and distributors are not successful in these endeavors, then the Company will
be unable to maintain or grow its revenues and to meet its financial
expectations.

 

·                  The
Company and its independent dealers must balance the economies of level
production with a more seasonal retail sales pattern.  The
Company generally records the sale of a motorcycle when it is shipped to the
Company’s independent dealers and distributors. 
In the past, the Company has not experienced seasonal fluctuations in
its wholesale motorcycle sales, and as a result, the Company has been able to
maintain production that is relatively level. 
Also, in more recent years, the Company increased the availability of
its motorcycles at dealerships to help improve the customer experience.  The increased availability of motorcycles has
resulted in the timing of retail purchases tracking more closely with regional
motorcycle riding seasons.  This requires
the Company to adapt its methods for allocating its products to its dealer
network so that allocation methods are aligned with retail demand.  In addition, the Company’s independent
dealers and distributors must manage seasonal increases in inventory.  As a result, the Company and its independent
dealers and distributors must balance the economies of level production with
the inventory costs associated with a more seasonal retail sales pattern.  Failure to balance the two, or the inability
of the Company to adequately adjust its allocation methods, may have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.

 

·                  The Company’s dealers may
experience a decline in retail sales resulting from slowing economic growth,
political events or other factors. The motorcycle industry can be affected by
general economic and political conditions, among other factors, over which
motorcycle manufacturers have little control. These factors may cause a weak
retail environment for discretionary purchases and the decision to purchase a
motorcycle may be affected by these factors. Should industry demand decline,
our results of operations and financial condition may be substantially
adversely affected.

 

·                  The
Company has a number of competitors of varying sizes that are based both inside
and outside the United States some of which have greater financial resources
than the Company.  Many of the Company’s competitors are more
diversified than the Company, and they may compete in the automotive market or
all segments of the motorcycle market. 
Also, the Company’s manufacturer’s suggested retail price for its
motorcycles is generally higher than its competitors, and if price becomes a
more important competitive factor for consumers in the heavyweight motorcycle
market, the Company may have a competitive disadvantage.  In addition, the Company’s financial services
operations face significant competition from various banks, insurance companies
and other financial institutions, some of which are larger and offer more
financial products than the Company. 
Failure to adequately address and respond to these competitive pressures
worldwide may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and
results of operations.

 

·                  The
Company’s marketing strategy of associating its motorcycle products with a
motorcycling lifestyle may not be successful with future customers.  The
Company has been successful in marketing its products in large part by
promoting the experience of motorcycling. 
This lifestyle is now more typically associated with a retail customer
base comprised of individuals who are, on average, in their mid-forties.  To sustain long-term growth, the Company must
continue to be successful in promoting motorcycling to customers new to the
sport of motorcycling including women, younger riders and more ethnically
diverse riders.

 

15












 

·                  The
Company’s success depends upon the continued strength of the Harley-Davidson
brand.  The Company believes that the Harley-Davidson
brand has significantly contributed to the success of its business and that
maintaining and enhancing the brand is critical to expanding its customer
base.  Failure to protect the brand from
infringers or to grow the value of the Harley-Davidson brand may have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.

 

·                  The
Company’s prospects for future growth are largely dependent upon its ability to
develop and successfully introduce new, innovative and compliant products.  The
motorcycle market continues to advance in terms of cutting edge styling and new
technology and, at the same time, be subject to increasing regulations related
to safety and emissions.  The Company
must continue to distinguish its products from its competitors’ products with
unique styling and new technologies and to protect its intellectual property
from imitators.  In addition, these new
products must comply with applicable regulations worldwide.  The Company must make product advancements
while maintaining the classic look, sound and feel associated with
Harley-Davidson products.  The Company
must also be able to design and manufacture these products and deliver them to
the marketplace in a timely manner. 
There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in these
endeavors or that existing and prospective customers will like or want the
Company’s new products.

 

·                  The
Company’s Motorcycles segment is dependent upon unionized labor. 
Substantially all of the hourly employees working in the Motorcycles
segment are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining
agreements.  Harley-Davidson Motor Company
is currently a party to five collective bargaining agreements with local
affiliates of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
and the United Steelworkers of America that expire during March 2008, February 2010
and July 2012.  These collective
bargaining agreements generally cover wages, healthcare benefits and retirement
plans, seniority, job classes and work rules. 
There is no certainty that the Company will be successful in negotiating
new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration
dates or that these new agreements will be on terms as favorable to the Company
as past labor agreements.  Failure to
renew these agreements when they expire or to establish new collective
bargaining agreements on terms acceptable to the Company and the unions could
result in work stoppages or other labor disruptions which may have a
material adverse effect on customer relationships and the Company’s business
and results of operations.

 

·                  The
Company’s operations are dependent upon attracting and retaining skilled
employees.  The Company’s future success depends on its
continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled
personnel for all areas of its organization. 
The current and future total compensation arrangements, which include
benefits and cash bonuses, may not be successful in attracting new employees
and retaining and motivating the Company’s existing employees.  If the Company does not succeed in attracting
personnel or retaining and motivating existing personnel, the Company may be
unable to develop and distribute products and services and grow effectively.

 

·                  The
Company incurs substantial costs with respect to pension benefits and providing
healthcare for its employees.  The Company’s estimates of liabilities and
expenses for pensions and other post-retirement healthcare benefits require the
use of assumptions.  They include the
rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the rate of return on
plan assets and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (salary
increases, medical costs, retirement age and mortality).  Actual results may differ which may have a
material adverse effect on future results of operations, liquidity or
shareholders’ equity.  In addition,
rising healthcare and retirement benefit costs in the United States may put the
Company under significant cost pressure as compared to our competitors.

 

·                  The
Company manufactures products that create exposure to product liability claims
and litigation.  To the extent plaintiffs are successful in
showing that personal injury or property damage result from defects in the
design or manufacture of the Company’s products, the Company may be subject to
claims for damages that are not covered by insurance.  The costs associated with defending product
liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and payment of damages could be
substantial.  The Company’s reputation
may also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful.

 

16












 

·                  The
Company relies on third party suppliers to obtain raw materials and provide
component parts  for use in the manufacture of its motorcycles.  The Company cannot be certain that it will
not experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery
of raw materials and components.  In
certain circumstances, the Company relies on a single supplier to provide the
entire requirement of a specific part and a change in this established supply
relationship may cause disruption in the Company’s production schedule.  In addition, the price and availability of
raw materials and component parts from suppliers can be adversely affected by
factors outside of the Company’s control such as increased worldwide
demand.  Further, Company suppliers who
also serve the automotive industry may be experiencing financial difficulties
due to a downturn in that industry. 
These supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business and results of operations.

 

·                  The
Company must maintain its reputation of being a good corporate citizen and
treating customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders fairly.  The Company has a history of good corporate governance.  Prior to the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 (the “Act”), the Company had in place many of the corporate
governance procedures and processes now mandated by the Act and related rules and
regulations, such as Board Committee Charters and a Corporate Governance
Policy.  In 1992, the Company established
a Code of Business Conduct that defines how employees interact with various
Company stakeholders and addresses issues such as confidentiality, conflict of
interest and fair dealing.  Failure to
maintain this reputation may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business and results of operations.

 

·                  The
Company must invest in and successfully implement new information systems and
technology. The Company is
continually modifying and enhancing its systems and technology to increase
productivity and efficiency.  When
implemented, the systems and technology may not provide the benefits
anticipated and could add costs and complications to ongoing operations, which
may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of
operations.

 

·                  The
Company is and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and
commercial or contractual disputes.  These are typically claims that
arise in the normal course of business. The uncertainty associated with
substantial unresolved claims and lawsuits may harm the Company’s business,
financial condition, reputation and brand. 
The defense of the lawsuits may result in the expenditures of
significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and
attention away from business operations.  In addition, although we are unable to
determine the amount, if any, that we may be required to pay in connection with
the resolution of the lawsuits by settlement or otherwise, any such payment may
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of
operations.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings
for additional detail regarding lawsuits and other claims against the Company.

 

·                  The
Company must comply with governmental laws and regulations that are subject to
change and involve significant costs.  The Company’s sales and operations in areas
outside the U.S. may be subject to foreign laws, regulations and the legal
systems of foreign courts or tribunals. 
These laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies
may result in increased costs or restrictions on the ability of the Company to
sell its products in certain countries. 
The Company’s international sales operations may also be adversely
affected by United States laws affecting foreign trade and taxation.

 

The Company is subject to
income and non-income based taxes in the United States and in various foreign
jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide
income tax liabilities and other tax liabilities.  The Company believes that it complies with
applicable tax law. If the governing tax authorities have a different
interpretation of the applicable law or if there is a change in tax law, our
financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected.

 

The
Company’s domestic sales and operations are subject to governmental policies
and regulatory actions of agencies of the United States Government, including
the Environmental Protection Agency, SEC, National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, Department of Labor and Federal Trade Commission.  In addition, the Company’s sales and
operations are also subject to laws and actions of 

 

17












 

state
legislatures    and other local regulators, including dealer
statutes and licensing laws.  Changes in
regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.

 

Our
motorcycle products use internal combustion engines.  These motorcycle
products are subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing
emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory
agencies, such as CARB, and other regulatory agencies around the world. 
We are also subject to statutory and regulatory requirements governing
emissions and noise in the conduct of our manufacturing operations.  Any
significant change to the regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise
may substantially increase the cost of manufacturing our products. 
Further, in response to concerns about global climate changes, we may face
greater regulatory or customer pressure to develop products that generate less
emissions.  This may require us to spend additional funds on research,
product development, implementation costs and subject us to the risk that our
competitors may respond to these pressures in a manner that gives them a
competitive advantage.

 

The
Company’s financial services operations are governed by various foreign,
federal and state laws that more specifically affect general financial and
lending institutions.  The Company’s
financial services operations originate the majority of its consumer loans
through its subsidiary, Eaglemark Savings Bank. 
Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may
affect the earnings of the financial services operations and have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.  Any unauthorized release of consumer data may
subject the Company to liability and adversely affect the Company’s reputation.

 

In
addition, the Company is also subject to policies and actions of the New York
Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).  Many major
competitors of the Company are not subject to the requirements of the SEC or
the NYSE rules.  As a result, the Company
may be required to disclose certain information that may put the Company at a
competitive disadvantage to its principal competitors.

 

·                  Breaches of security involving
consumers’ personal data may adversely affect the Company’s reputation, revenue
and earnings.  The
Company receives and stores personal information in connection with its
financial services operations, the Harley Owners Group and other aspects of its
business.  Breach of the systems on which
sensitive consumer information is stored or other unauthorized release of
consumer information may adversely affect the Company’s reputation and lead to
claims against the Company.

 

·                  The
Company’s financial services operations are highly dependent on accessing
capital markets to fund its operations at attractive interest rates.  The
Company’s ability to access unsecured capital markets is influenced by its
short term and long term credit ratings.  The Company currently has
strong credit ratings; however, in November 2007 Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services lowered the Company’s long term corporate credit ratings.  If the Company’s credit ratings are
downgraded further, its cost of borrowing may be adversely affected resulting
in reduced earnings and interest margins.

 

·                  The
Company’s financial services operations rely on external
sources to finance a  significant
portion of its operations. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s
financial services business. The financial services business may be negatively
affected by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt
capital markets or the equity capital markets. Factors that it cannot control,
such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the
financial services industry in general, may impair our ability to raise
funding.

 

·                  The
Company’s financial services operations are exposed to credit risk on its retail
and wholesale receivables.   Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from
a failure by a customer to meet the terms of any contract with the
Company.  Credit losses are influenced by
general business and economic conditions, as well as contract terms, customer
credit profiles and the new and used motorcycle market.  Negative changes in general 

 

18












 

business, economic or market factors may adversely impact the Company’s
credit losses and future earnings. 
Credit exposure is significantly sensitive to any decline in new and
used motorcycle prices.  In addition, the
frequency of losses may be negatively influenced by adverse changes in
macro-economic factors, such as unemployment rates and bankruptcy filings.

 

·                  The
Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates and
interest rates. The Company
sells its products internationally and in most markets those sales are made in
the foreign country’s local currency. 
Earnings from the Company’s financial services business are affected by
changes in interest rates.  The Company uses derivative financial
instruments to attempt to manage foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rate risks.  There can be no assurance
that in the future the Company will successfully manage these risks.

 

The
Company disclaims any obligation to update these Risk Factors or any other
forward-looking statements.  The Company
assumes no obligation (and specifically disclaims any such obligation) to
update these Risk Factors or any other forward-looking statements to reflect
actual results, changes in assumptions or other factors affecting such
forward-looking statements.

 

Item 1B