Item 1A. Risk Factors
Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements
We describe many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Results of Operations and in other parts of this report (including this Item 1A). Such discussions contain forward-looking statements within the
  meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. They are based on management’s assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic
  and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise
  any of our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. These forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this Form 10-K, including, in particular,
  the factors discussed below. These factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
Risk Factors
Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.
Macroeconomic and Industry Risks
Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations.

  
    
  
  
     
    
      •
     
    
      Aerospace—Operating results of our business units within Aerospace are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, as well as changes in customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and capacity constraints. The operating results of our
      Commercial Original Equipment and Commercial aftermarket business units may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production or the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft, the retirement of
      aircraft and global flying hours, which impacts business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates. Operating results in our Defense and Space Systems business unit may be affected by the mix of U.S. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs. Operating results in our
      Transportation Systems business unit may be affected by the level of production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products and
      delays in launch schedules for new automobile and truck platforms.
  
  
    
  
  
     
    
      •
     
    
      Automation and Control Solutions—Operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity
      utilization and expansion, and inventory levels in distribution channels.
  
  
    
  
  
     
    
      •
     
    
      Performance Materials and Technologies—Operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers’ availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and
      supply volatility, and our ability to maximize our facilities’ production capacity and minimize downtime. Pricing of certain chemical products are driven by 
  

6

 


  
    
  
  
     
     
     
    
      raw materials that are correlated to the price of oil, hence revenue could be significantly impacted by volatility in the price of oil.
    
  

An increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international operations.
Our international operations, including U.S. exports, represent more than half of the Company’s sales. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as
  embargoes), violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our efforts to mitigate these risks), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety
  of our employees in these regions. Instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment and the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our
  businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins.
Operating outside of the United States also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. However, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or successful in eliminating such volatility. Finally, we
  generate significant amounts of cash outside of the United States that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. While we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and
  commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom we transact business could expose Honeywell to financial loss.
A change in the level of U.S. Government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact Aerospace’s defense and space sales and results of operations.
A shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations.
Risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.
Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and require cash pension contributions in future periods. Changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our anticipated asset returns can
  result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses which we record in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. With regard to cash pension contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon
  interest rates, actual investment returns on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations.
Operational Risks
Raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities.
The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in PMT (cumene, fluorspar, R240, natural gas, perchloroethylene, sulfur and ethylene) and Aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices
7

 

to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations.
Many major components, product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in Aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. Although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and
  components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. Our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers’ inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times
  of volatile demand. Our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships.
Failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses.
Our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. In addition, we seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line
  rationalizations. Risks associated with these actions include delays in execution of the planned initiatives, additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to employee attrition. We may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect,
  the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations.
Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in highly competitive markets with acceptable margins.
Our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our
  competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring new products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers’ needs to develop new technologies and introduce new
  products.
The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects.
We may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned.
We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i)
  the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies, (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions, and (iv) the discovery of
  unanticipated liabilities or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities or, with regard to divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification.
8

 

As a supplier of military and other equipment to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance.
U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to government audits that may recommend
  downward price adjustments and other changes. When appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future.
We are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental, employment or export laws), Honeywell or one of its
  businesses were found to have violated applicable law, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended.
Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.
Mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We
  continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental
  matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. Various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit
  emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal
  toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.
Global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company, its products, its customers and/or its third
  party service providers. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the Company. We seek to deploy comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access
  controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, product software designs which we believe are less susceptible to cyber attacks, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems. Despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their
  nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. Cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software imbedded in our products
  could lead to third party claims that our product failures have caused a similar range of damages to our customers. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and
  engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations.
9

 

Legal and Regulatory Risks
Our U.S. and non-U.S. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax
  rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently
  reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives.
Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations.
The sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations including safety, performance and product certification regulations. Within Aerospace, the operating results of our Commercial Original Equipment and Commercial Aftermarket business units may be impacted
  by, among other things, mandates of the Federal Aviation Administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft. Our Defense and Space business unit may be effected by changes in government procurement regulations, while emissions, fuel economy
  and energy efficiency standards for motor vehicles can impact the Transportation Systems business unit. Within ACS, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. PMT’s
  results of operations can be affected by environmental, safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations.
We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties.
We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and
  divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. Our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements,
  and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the
  total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition.
Item 1B