Item 1A. Risk
  Factors.”
U.S. Government Sales
Sales to the U.S. Government (principally by our Aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $4,011, $3,688 and $3,719
  million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which included sales to the U.S. Department of Defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,192, $3,052 and $2,939 million in 2007, 2006 and
  2005, respectively. U.S. defense spending increased in 2007 and is also expected to increase in 2008. We do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2008 federal spending due
  principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (OEM production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). Our contracts with
  the U.S. Government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
Backlog
Our total backlog at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $12,303 and $10,674 million, respectively. We anticipate that approximately $9,155 million of the 2007 backlog will be filled in 2008. We believe
  that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer’s option.
Competition
We are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. Competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. Competitive conditions vary widely among the
  thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary by country. Depending on the particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality,
  reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. Brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important competitive
  factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. Other competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and
  technical and managerial capability. While our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes.
  However, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological
  capabilities. In addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers.
International Operations
We are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development mainly in the United States, Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin America. U.S. exports and foreign manufactured
  products are significant to our operations. U.S. exports comprised 10, 11 and 10 percent of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in
  Europe, were 39, 37 and 35 percent of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Approximately 18 percent of total 2007 sales of Aerospace-related products and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair
  and overhaul. Exports were principally made to Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin America. Foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 14
7



percent of total 2007 Aerospace sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Canada and Asia.
Approximately 2 percent of total 2007 sales of Automation and Control Solutions products were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Foreign manufactured products and performance of services
  accounted for 58 percent of total 2007 Automation and Control Solutions sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe with less significant operations in Asia, Canada and
  Latin America.
Approximately 18 percent of total 2007 sales of Specialty Materials products and services were exports of U.S. manufactured products. Exports were principally made to Asia and Latin America.
  Foreign manufactured products and performance of services comprised 23 percent of total 2007 Specialty Materials sales. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less
  significant operations in Asia and Canada.
Exports of U.S. manufactured products comprised 1 percent of total 2007 sales of Transportation Systems products. Foreign manufactured products accounted for 70 percent of total 2007 sales of
  Transportation Systems. The principal manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. are in Europe, with less significant operations in Asia, Latin America and Canada.
Financial information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic areas is included in Note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
  Data”. Information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
Raw Materials
The principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. We experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2007. We are not
  dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, except related to phenol, a raw material used in our Specialty Materials segment. We purchase phenol under a supply
  agreement with one supplier. We have no reason to believe there is any material risk to this supply.
We are highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to our customers. In addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or
  subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. We maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on
  third parties. While we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future.
The costs of certain key raw materials, including natural gas, benzene (the key component in phenol), ethylene and sulfur in our Specialty Materials’ business, steel, nickel, other metals and ethylene
  glycol in our Transportation Systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our Aerospace business, have been and are expected to remain at high price levels. In addition, in 2007 certain
  large long-term fixed supplier price agreements expired, primarily relating to components used by our Aerospace business, which in the aggregate, subjected us to higher volatility in certain component
  costs. We will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term price agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. We have no reason to believe a
  shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during 2008. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion.
Patents, Trademarks, Licenses and Distribution Rights
Our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. We own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent
  applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. From time to
  time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. We also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and
  services produced by other companies. In our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. We believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses
8



are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of
  material importance in relation to our total business. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion.
We have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including Honeywell, UOP, Prestone, FRAM, Autolite, Bendix, Jurid, Holts, Garrett, Ademco, Fire-Lite, Notifier, System
  Sensor, MK, Novar, Genetron, Enovate, Spectra, Aclar, Simoniz and Redex.
Research and Development
Our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products, technologies and processes and the development of new uses for existing products. The Company has
  research and development activities in the U.S., Europe, India and China.
Research and development (R&D) expense totaled $1,459, $1,411 and $1,072 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in R&D expense in 2007 compared to 2006 of 3 percent was mainly
  due to additional product, design and development costs in Automation and Control Solutions and increased expenditures on the development of turbocharging systems for new platforms. The increase in R&D
  expense in 2006 compared to 2005 of 32 percent was primarily due to the impact of additional R&D expense for UOP in Specialty Materials as well as product, design and development costs in Aerospace and
  Automation and Control Solutions. Customer-sponsored (principally the U.S. Government) R&D activities amounted to an additional $881, $777 and $694 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Environment
We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the
  environment. It is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of
  environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. Some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with
  other companies engaged in similar businesses.
We are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory agencies. We believe that, as a general
  matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of
  these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. It is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances
  in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these
  substances.
Among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially
  responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection
  Agency’s superfund priority list. Although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup
  costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole.
Further information, including the current status of significant environmental matters and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental matters, if any, is included in “Item 7.
  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and in
  “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
Employees
We have approximately 122,000 employees at December 31, 2007, of which approximately 57,000 were located in the United States.
9




Item 1A. Risk Factors
Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements
We have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
  Operations”, including the overview of the Company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2008. These sections and other
  parts of this report (including this Item 1A) contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. They are
  based on management’s assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of
  future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise any
  of our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. These forward-looking
  statements should be considered in light of the information included in this Form 10-K, including, in particular, the factors discussed below.
Risk Factors
Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our
  actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.
Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our
  results of operations.
The operating results of our segments are impacted by general industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and
  services and the level of our manufacturing costs. The operating results of our Aerospace segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are directly tied to cyclical industry
  and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production and/or the retirement of older aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft
  utilization rates, as well as supplier consolidation, factory transitions and capacity constraints, and the level and mix of U.S. Government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further
  discussed in other risk factors below). The challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including
  aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could
  dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our Aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. The operating results of our Automation and Control Solutions (ACS) segment, which generated 36
  percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending on building and process
  automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and global economic growth rates. Specialty Materials’ operating results, which generated 14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007,
  are impacted by global economic growth rates, and capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining and petrochemical plants. Transportation Systems’ operating results, which generated 15 percent of
  our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions
  and fuel economy, and consumer spending levels and patterns for automotive aftermarket and car care products. Each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described
  below) and non-material inflation.
10



Raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to
  meet commitments to customers.
The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our Specialty Materials (benzene (the key component in phenol), natural gas, ethylene and sulfur), Transportation
  Systems (nickel, steel, other metals and ethylene glycol) and Aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers,
  formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations.
Our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in
  our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. We also depend in limited instances on sole
  source suppliers. Our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their
  non-performance. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes or governmental
  actions. Our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract
  penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships.
Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins.
Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of
  factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features
  that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite
  expertise.
Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert
  resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully
  as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more
  attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects.
Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. We own or are licensed under a large number of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights.
  Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual
  property on commercially reasonable terms. In some non-U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and
  other intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties
  and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services.
11



An increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations.
Our international operations, including U.S. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results and our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including
  developing markets such as China, India and the Middle East. In 2007, 49 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the U.S. and in international locations) were outside of the U.S.
  including 29 percent in Europe and 11 percent in Asia. Risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment
  laws, import and trade restrictions (including embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability and our
  ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product,
  marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins.
As we continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be increasingly effected by the relative strength of the European and Asian economies and the impact of exchange
  rate fluctuations. We do have a policy to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be successful in
  eliminating such volatility.
We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets.
At December 31, 2007, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $15.7 billion. In accordance with generally
  accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected
  significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future impairment charges
  could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners’ equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio,
  which could negatively impact our access to the public debt and equity markets.
A change in the level of U.S. Government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of Aerospace’s defense
  and space-related product and services.
Sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. Sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to
  the U.S. Department of Defense comprised approximately 26 and 9 percent of Aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007. Although U.S. defense spending increased
  in 2007 and is expected to increase again in 2008, we cannot predict the extent to which funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2009 and subsequent budgets
  ultimately approved by Congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation
  and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in
  funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations.
As a supplier of military and other equipment to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for
  convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance.
In addition to normal business risks, companies like Honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on
12



Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislations and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments,
  significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government
  business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work,
  and other factors characteristic of the industry. Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract
  prices.
Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to audits. Like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain
  contracts to comply with various government regulations. We have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future.
U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a
  termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If a contract is terminated by the government for our
  failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government.
We are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If Honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing
  as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new
  government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. The U.S. Government also reserves the right to
  debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years.
Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations.
The sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. Safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the Federal Aviation Administration and
  other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact Aerospace sales,
  research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. The demand for and cost of providing Automation and Control Solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire,
  security, safety, health care, enviornmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. Specialty Materials’ results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of
  fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our Transportation
  Systems segment.
Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned.
We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a
  timely basis or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of
  unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, and/or
  (iv) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe.
13



We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties.
We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to
  commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export
  matters and environmental, health and safety matters. Resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in
  litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and
  we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and
  financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not
  possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our
  results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition.
Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.
Mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal
  injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. We have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a
  party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing toxic substances. Additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving
  environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the
  environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly
  equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to
  comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related
  to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results
  of operations.
Our expenses include significant costs related to employee health and retiree health and income benefits.
With approximately 122,000 employees, including 57,000 in the U.S., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and income benefits are significant. In recent years, we have
  experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of
  inflation. Continued increasing health-care costs, and changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health and income benefit expenses, may affect our future profitability.
Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability
We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among
  these different jurisdictions. In 2007, our tax expense represented 26.4 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects
  various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that
14



could effect the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with
  differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and continuing assessments of our
  tax exposures.
Volatility of credit markets or macro-economic factors may increase our cost of financing
Changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing. In addition, our borrowing costs
  can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing.
Item 1B