Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS    

        In
addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the Company cautions that the following "Risk Factors" could affect its actual results in the future. 

1.    Competition    



 Competition in the Contract Drilling Business  



        The contract drilling business is highly competitive. Competition in contract drilling involves such factors as price, rig availability, efficiency, condition of
equipment, reputation, operating safety, and customer relations. Competition is primarily on a regional basis and may vary significantly by region at any particular time. Land drilling rigs can be
readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity, and an oversupply of rigs in any region may result, leading to increased price competition. 

        Although
many contracts for drilling services are awarded based solely on price, the Company has been successful in establishing long-term relationships with certain
customers which have allowed the Company to secure drilling work even though the Company may not have been the lowest bidder for such work. The Company has continued to attempt to differentiate its
services based upon its engineering design expertise, operational efficiency, and safety and environmental awareness. This strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling services
intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult or impossible to compete on any basis other than price. Also, future improvements in operational efficiency and safety by the Company's
competitors could negatively affect the Company's ability to differentiate its services. 



 Competition in the Real Estate Business  



        The Company has numerous competitors in the multi-tenant leasing business. The size and financial capacity of these competitors range from one property sole
proprietors to large international corporations. The primary competitive factors include price, location, and configuration of space. The Company's competitive position is enhanced by the location of
its properties, its financial capability and the long-term 

6




 


ownership
of its properties. However, many competitors have financial resources greater than the Company and have more contemporary facilities. 

2.    Operating and Weather Risks    

        The
drilling operations of the Company are subject to the many hazards inherent in the business, including inclement weather, blowouts and well fires. These hazards could cause personal
injury, suspend drilling operations, seriously damage or destroy the equipment involved, and cause substantial damage to producing formations and the surrounding areas. The Company's offshore platform
drilling operations are also subject to potentially greater environmental liability, adverse sea conditions and platform damage or destruction due to collision with aircraft or marine vessels.
Specifically, the Company operates several platform rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. The Gulf of Mexico experiences hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a frequent basis. Damage caused by
high winds and turbulent seas could potentially curtail operations on such platform rigs for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if the Company's platform rigs
are not directly damaged by such storms, the Company may experience disruptions in operations due to damage to customer platforms and other related facilities in the area. Until 2005, the Company's
platform operation had not been materially affected by adverse weather. In August of 2005, platform Rig 201 sustained significant hurricane damage. This rig is not expected to return to normal
drilling operations until fiscal 2007. 

        The
Company's new-build rig assembly facility is located near the Houston, Texas ship channel. Also, the Company's principal fabricator and other vendors are located in the
Gulf Coast region. Due to their location, these facilities are exposed to potentially greater hurricane damage. 

3.    Fixed Term Contract Risk    

        Fixed
term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an "early termination payment" to be paid to the Company if a contract is
terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. However, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by the
Company, or late delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and/or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to the Company. 

4.    Indemnification and Insurance Coverage    

        The
Company has insurance coverage for comprehensive general liability, automobile liability, worker's compensation, employer's liability, and property damage. Generally, deductibles are
$1 million or $2 million per occurrence, depending on whether a claim occurs inside or outside of the United States. The Company maintains certain other insurance coverages with
$5 million deductibles. Insurance is purchased over these deductibles to reduce the Company's exposure to catastrophic events. In fiscal 2006, the Company obtained property insurance for
85 percent of the aggregate estimated replacement cost of its rigs in excess of a $1 million deductible. If loss levels exceed a set percentage of excess property premium in fiscal 2006,
then the Company would share in losses up to a maximum of $5 million. The Company self-insured the remaining 15 percent of such rig value including deductibles. No insurance
is carried against loss of earnings or business interruption. The Company is unable to obtain significant amounts of insurance to cover risks of underground reservoir damage; however, the Company is
generally indemnified under its drilling contracts from this risk. 

        The
Company retains a significant portion of its expected losses under its worker's compensation, general, and automobile liability programs. The Company records estimates for incurred
outstanding liabilities for unresolved worker's compensation, general liability claims and for claims that are incurred but not reported. Estimates are based on historic experience and statistical
methods that the Company believes are reliable. Nonetheless, insurance estimates include certain assumptions and management judgments regarding the frequency and severity of claims, claim development,
and settlement practices. Unanticipated changes in these factors may produce materially different amounts of expense that would be reported under these programs. 


        The
majority of the Company's insurance has been purchased through fiscal 2007. Multiple hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico during August and September of 2005 continued to have a severe
impact on the availability and price of the Company's rig property coverage for 2007. As a result, the Company 

7




 


transferred
only 80 percent of its rig property exposure in excess of a $1 million per occurrence deductible to third party insurers. Insurance coverage for named storms in the Gulf of
Mexico is also limited to a net aggregate of $60 million. No assurance can be given that all or a portion of the Company's coverage will not be cancelled during fiscal 2007 or that insurance
coverage will continue to be available at rates considered reasonable. No assurance can be given that the Company's insurance and indemnification arrangements will adequately protect it against all
liabilities that could result from the hazards of its drilling operations. Incurring a liability for which the Company is not fully insured or indemnified could materially affect the Company's results
of operations. 

5.    Availability of Equipment and Supplies    

        The
contract drilling business is highly cyclical. During periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, delays in delivery and shortages of drilling equipment and supplies
can occur. These risks are intensified during periods when the industry experiences significant new drilling rig construction or refurbishment. 

6.    Limited Number of Vendors    

        Certain
key rig components are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, and the Company has no long-term contracts with many of these
vendors. Shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. If the Company was unable to procure certain of such rig components,
it would be required to reduce its rig construction or other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 

        If
the Company's principal fabricator, located on the Texas Gulf Coast, was unable or unwilling to continue fabricating rig components, then the Company would have to transfer this work
to other acceptable fabricators. This transfer could result in significant delay in the completion of new FlexRigs. Any significant interruption in the fabrication of rig components could have a
material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

7.    Thinly Capitalized Vendors    


        Certain
key rig components are obtained from vendors that are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent companies that generate significant portions of their business from the
Company or from a small group of companies in the energy industry. These vendors may be disproportionately affected by any loss of business or by any downturn in the energy industry. Therefore,
disruptions in rig component delivery may occur, and such disruptions and terminations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

8.    Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices    


        The
Company's operations can be materially affected by low oil and gas prices. The Company believes that any significant reduction in oil and gas prices could depress the level of
exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in demand for the Company's services. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. Fluctuations during the last few years in the demand and supply of oil and gas have
contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. Any prolonged reduction in demand for the Company's services could have a material and adverse effect on the Company. 


9.    International Uncertainties and Local Laws    

        International
operations are subject to certain political, economic, and other uncertainties not encountered in U.S. operations, including increased risks of terrorism, kidnapping of
employees, expropriation of equipment as well as expropriation of a particular oil company operator's property and drilling rights, taxation policies, foreign exchange restrictions, currency rate
fluctuations, and general hazards associated with foreign sovereignty over certain areas in which operations are conducted. There can be no assurance that there will not be changes in local laws,
regulations, and administrative requirements or the interpretation thereof which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the Company's operations or on the ability of the Company
to continue operations in certain areas. 

8






<A
NAME="page_dk1311_1_9">   
        Because of the impact of local laws, the Company's future operations in certain areas may be conducted through entities in which local citizens own interests and through entities
(including joint ventures) in which the Company holds only a minority interest, or pursuant to arrangements under which the Company conducts operations under contract to local entities. While the
Company believes that neither operating through such entities nor pursuant to such arrangements would have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations or revenues, there can be no assurance
that the Company will in all cases be able to structure or restructure its operations to conform to local law (or the administration thereof) on terms acceptable to the Company. 

        Venezuela
continues to experience significant political, economic and social instability. In the event that extended labor strikes occur or turmoil increases, the Company could
experience shortages in labor and/or material and supplies necessary to operate some or all of its Venezuelan drilling rigs, thereby causing an adverse effect on the Company. 

        During
the mid-1970s, the Venezuelan government nationalized the exploration and production business. At the present time it appears the Venezuelan government will not
nationalize the contract drilling business. Any such nationalization could result in the Company's loss of all or a portion of its assets and business in Venezuela. 

        Although
the Company attempts to minimize the potential impact of such risks by operating in more than one geographical area, during fiscal 2006, approximately 21 percent of the
Company's consolidated operating revenues were generated from the international contract drilling business. Approximately 91 percent of the international operating revenues were from operations
in South America and approximately 76 percent of South American operating revenues were from Venezuela and Ecuador. 

10.    Currency Risk    



 General  



        Contracts for work in foreign countries generally provide for payment in United States dollars, except for amounts required to meet local expenses. However,
government owned petroleum companies are more frequently requesting that a greater proportion of these payments be made in local currencies. Based upon
current information, the Company believes that exposure to potential losses from currency devaluation is minimal in Colombia, Bolivia, Equatorial Guinea, Chile, and Tunisia. In those countries, all
receivables and payments are currently in U.S. dollars. Cash balances are kept at a minimum which assists in reducing exposure. 



 Argentina  



        In 2002, Argentina suffered a 60 percent devaluation of the peso. As a consequence, the Company secured agreements with its customers that limited the
portion of the accounts receivable that was paid in pesos with the balance of such accounts receivable paid in U.S. dollars. The Company experienced $.3 million in Argentina currency losses in
fiscal 2006. 



 Venezuela  



        The Company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in Venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar receivable balances and bolivar cash balances. In Venezuela,
approximately 60 percent of the Company's billings are in U.S. dollars and 40 percent are in the local currency, the bolivar. The significance of this arrangement is that even though the
dollar-based invoices may be paid in bolivares, the Company, historically, has usually been able to convert the bolivares into U.S. dollars in a timely manner and thus avoid, in large measure,
devaluation losses pertaining to the dollar-based invoices. However, this arrangement is effective only in the absence of exchange controls. In January 2003, the Venezuelan government put into
effect exchange controls that fixed the exchange rate and also prohibited the Company, as well as other companies, from converting the bolivar into U.S. dollars through the Central Bank. 

        As
part of the exchange controls regulation, the Venezuelan government provided a mechanism by which companies could request conversion of bolivares into U.S. dollars. In compliance with
such regulations, the Company, in October of 2003, submitted a request to the Venezuelan government seeking permission to dividend earnings, which would convert 14 billion bolivares into U.S.
dollars. In January 2004, the Venezuelan government approved the Company's request to convert bolivar cash balances to U.S. 

9




 


dollars
and allowed the remittance of $8.8 million U.S. dollars as dividends to the U.S. based parent. This was the first dividend remitted under the new regulation. On January 16, 2006,
a dividend of $6.5 million U.S. dollars was remitted to the U.S. based parent. As a consequence, the Company's exposure to currency devaluation has been reduced by these amounts. 


        On
August 18, 2006, the Company made application with the Venezuelan government requesting the approval to convert bolivar cash balances to U.S. dollars. Upon approval from the
Venezuelan government, the Company's Venezuelan subsidiary will remit approximately $9.3 million as a dividend to its U.S. based parent, thus reducing the Company's exposure to currency
devaluation. 

        As
stated above, the Company is exposed to risks of currency devaluation in Venezuela primarily as a result of bolivar receivable balances and bolivar cash balances. As a result of a
12 percent devaluation of the bolivar during fiscal 2005, the Company experienced total devaluation losses of $0.6 million during that same period. 


        Past
devaluation losses may not be reflective of the actual potential for future devaluation losses. Even though Venezuela continues to operate under the exchange controls in place and
the Venezuelan bolivar exchange rate has remained fixed at 2150 bolivares to one U.S. dollar since the devaluation in March 2005, the exact amount and timing of devaluation is uncertain. While
the Company is unable to predict future devaluation in Venezuela, if fiscal 2007 activity levels are similar to fiscal 2006, and if a 10 percent to 20 percent devaluation were to occur,
the Company could experience potential currency devaluation losses ranging from approximately $1.5 million to $2.8 million. 


        In
late August 2003, the Venezuelan state petroleum company agreed, on a prospective basis, to pay a portion of the Company's dollar-based invoices in U.S. dollars. Were this
agreement to end, the Company would again receive these payments in bolivares and thus increase bolivar cash balances and exposure to devaluation. 

11.    Increased Receivables in Venezuela    

        The
Company derives its revenue in Venezuela from PDVSA, the Venezuelan state-owned petroleum company. At the end of fiscal 2006, the Company had a net receivable from PDVSA of
approximately $45 million, of which approximately $16 million was 90 days old or older. At December 1, 2006, such receivable balance had increased to approximately
$66 million, of which approximately $40 million was 90 days old or older. The aggregate receivable amount of $66 million approximates the historical high for the Company's
receivables in Venezuela. The Company continues to communicate with PDVSA regarding the settlement of the outstanding receivables. 

        While
the collection of the receivables is difficult and time consuming due to PDVSA policies and procedures, the Company, at this time, has no reason to believe the amounts will not be
paid. Historically, PDVSA payments on accounts receivable have, by traditional business measurements, been slower than those of other foreign customers of the Company. However, the failure of PDVSA to
make payments on outstanding receivables, or a continued increase in its delay in making payments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 

        In
order to establish a source of local currency to meet current obligations in Venezuela bolivares, the Company is borrowing in the form of short-term notes from two local
banks in Venezuela at the market interest rates designated by the banks. 

12.    Government Regulation and Environmental Risks    

        Many
aspects of the Company's operations are subject to government regulation, including those relating to drilling practices and methods and the level of taxation. In addition, the
United States and various other countries have environmental regulations which affect drilling operations. Drilling contractors may be liable for damages resulting from pollution. Under United States
regulations, drilling contractors must establish financial responsibility to cover potential liability for pollution of offshore waters. Generally, the Company is indemnified under drilling contracts
from liability arising from pollution, except in certain cases of surface pollution. However, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in foreign countries may be questionable. 

        The
Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all legislation and regulations affecting its operations in the drilling of oil and gas wells and in controlling the
discharge of wastes. To date, compliance has not materially affected the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the 

10




 


Company,
although these measures may add to the costs of drilling operations. Additional legislation or regulation may reasonably be anticipated, and the effect thereof on operations cannot be
predicted. 

13.    Interest Rate Risk    

        The
Company has a $200 million intermediate-term unsecured debt obligation with staged maturities from August 2007 to August 2014, with varying fixed
interest rates for each maturity series. There was $200 million outstanding at September 30, 2006, of which $25 million is due in 2007 and the remaining $175 million is due
2009 through 2014. The average interest rate during the next four years on this debt is 6.4 percent, after which it increases to 6.5 percent. The fair value of this debt at
September 30, 2006 was approximately $209 million. 

        At
September 30, 2006, the Company had in place a committed unsecured line of credit totaling $50 million with no outstanding borrowings. The Company, as of
September 30, 2006, had letters of credit totaling $16.4 million outstanding against such line of credit. The Company's line of credit interest rate is based on LIBOR plus 87.5 to 112.5
basis points or prime minus 175 to 150 basis points based on the Company's EBITDA to net debt ratio. As the Company draws on this line of credit, it is subject to the interest rates prevailing during
the term at which the Company had outstanding borrowings. 

        In
December 2006, the Company expects to enter into a five-year $400 million senior unsecured credit facility. Borrowings under this credit facility will be
subject to floating interest rates. If the Company enters into this senior unsecured credit facility then the existing $50 million unsecured line of credit will be reduced to $5 million. 

        Interest
rates could rise for various reasons in the future and increase the Company's total interest expense, depending upon the amount borrowed against the credit line. 

14.    Equity Price Risk    

        At
September 30, 2006, the Company had a portfolio of available-for-sale securities with a total market value of $336.1 million. These securities
are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the market value of the Company's holdings. Except for the Company's holdings in Atwood
Oceanics, Inc. and investments in limited partnerships carried at cost, the portfolio is recorded at fair value on its balance sheet with changes in unrealized after-tax value
reflected in the equity section of its balance sheet. Any reduction in market value would have an impact on the Company's debt ratio and financial strength. 

15.    Reliance on Small Number of Customers    

        In
fiscal 2006, the Company received approximately 57 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the Company's ten largest contract drilling customers and approximately
25 percent of its consolidated operating revenues from the Company's three largest customers (including their affiliates). The Company believes that its relationship with all of these customers
is good; however, the loss of one or more of its larger customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. 

16.    Key Personnel    

        The
Company utilizes highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting its businesses. In times of high utilization, it can be difficult to find qualified individuals. Although to
date the Company's operations have not been materially affected by competition for personnel, an inability to obtain a sufficient number of qualified personnel could materially impact the Company's
results of operations. 

17.    Changes in Technologies    


        Although
the Company takes measures to ensure that it uses advanced oil and natural gas drilling technology, changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make
the Company's equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep its equipment competitive. 

18.    Concentration of Credit    

        The
concentration of the Company's customers in the energy industry could cause them to be similarly affected by changes in industry conditions and, as a result, could impact the
Company's exposure to credit risk. The Company cannot offer assurances that losses due to uncollectible receivables will be consistent with expectations. 

Item 1B