ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.        

        Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a
reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 

 The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margin and prospects.  

        We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors may target
our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our
products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software, and Internet
infrastructure offerings. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our operations, results and prospects could be
harmed. 

        Unlike
many of our competitors, we have a portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of
these product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our businesses than our competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources
available to them than our businesses that compete against them. Industry consolidation also may affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the
markets in which we compete, and our competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. 

        We
may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. The
markets in which we do business, particularly the personal computer and printing markets, are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all of our products and services
from numerous companies globally. Over the past several years, price competition in the market for personal computers, printers and related products has been particularly intense as competitors have
aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins for these products. In addition, competitors in some of the markets in which we compete with a greater presence in lower-cost jurisdictions
may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. 

        Because
our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our
competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and therefore our profitability could be adversely
affected. In addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which
could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. 

        Even
if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, revenue could decline because the product is in a maturing industry. Revenue and margins also could
decline due to increased competition from other types of products. For example, refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of HP's LaserJet toner and inkjet cartridges compete with HP's supplies
business. In addition, other companies have developed and marketed new compatible cartridges for HP's LaserJet and inkjet products, particularly in jurisdictions outside of the United States where
adequate intellectual property 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



protection
may not exist. HP expects competitive refill and remanufacturing and cloned cartridge activity to continue to pressure margins in IPG, which in turn has a significant impact on HP margins
and profitability overall. 

 If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may
suffer.  

        The process of developing new high technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and
uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. We must make
long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand
for our products and services. After we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low costs. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes
of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at all or within a given product's life cycle. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new
product could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. 

        In
the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and
manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in
product testing to determine the cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. However, we may have limited ability to control quality issues, particularly with respect to faulty
components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch"), we may delay shipment to customers, which would
delay revenue recognition and could adversely affect our revenue and reported results. Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other
costs, adversely affecting our profits. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we
fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our reputation, which could have a material
adverse effect on our operating results. 

 If we do not effectively manage our product and services transitions, our revenue may suffer.  

        Many of the industries in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance and software
features and functionality; frequent introduction of new products; short product life cycles; and continual improvement in product price characteristics relative to product performance. Among the
risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing
products in anticipation of new introductions, difficulty in predicting customer demand for the new offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated
demand, risks associated with customer qualification and evaluation of new products and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application
software. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenue may decline. 

        Our
revenue and gross margin also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. This is especially challenging when a product has a
short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of
some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of even a successful introduction. There also may be 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



overlaps
in the current products and services of HP and portfolios acquired through mergers and acquisitions that we must manage. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new customer
contracts in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of our industry, if any of these
risks materializes, future demand for our products and services and our results of operations may suffer. 

 Our revenue, cost of sales, and expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend or if third
parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights.  

        We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States, similar laws in other countries, and agreements
with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the technology and products we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations.
However, any of our direct or indirect intellectual
property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to
provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain
countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately
against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this too could adversely affect our competitive position. 


        Because
of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by
third parties. We may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses
to our intellectual property. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business
may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to the transaction. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may
be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. 


        Third
parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. For example, in recent years individuals and groups have begun
purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies such as HP. If we cannot or do not license
the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms, or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. Even if we believe that the claims are without
merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might
require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing,
marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations to us. 

        Finally,
our results of operations and cash flows could be affected in certain periods and on an ongoing basis by the imposition, accrual and payment of copyright levies or similar fees.
In certain countries (primarily in Europe), proceedings are ongoing against HP in which groups representing copyright owners seek to impose upon and collect from HP levies upon equipment (such as PCs,
multifunction devices and printers) that they allege are copying devices under applicable laws. Other countries that have not imposed levies on these types of devices are expected to extend existing
levy schemes, and countries that do not currently have levy schemes may decide to impose copyright levies 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



on
these types of devices. If imposed, the total amount of the copyright levies would depend on the types of products determined to be subject to the levy, the number of units of those products sold
during the period covered by the levy, and the per unit fee for each type of product, all of which may be affected by several factors, including the outcome of ongoing litigation involving HP and
other industry participants and possible action by the legislative bodies in the applicable countries, but which
could be substantial. Consequently, the ultimate impact of these potential copyright levies or similar fees, and the ability of HP to recover such amounts through increased prices, remain uncertain. 

 Economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin and expenses.  

        Our revenue and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for computing and imaging products and
services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and constrained IT spending has resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and
problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, reduced spending in our consumer and financial services
businesses due to the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, access to credit and other
macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. In addition, customer financial difficulties have resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and
additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio, inability by our lessees to make required lease payments and reduction in the value of leased equipment upon its return to us compared to the value
estimated at lease inception. In particular, our exposure to certain industries currently experiencing financial difficulties, including the U.S. automobile industry, and certain financially troubled
customers, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. We also have experienced, and may experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of
items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs, charges associated with the cancellation of planned production line expansion, increases in pension and post-retirement
benefit expenses, and increases in component and manufacturing costs resulting from higher labor and material costs borne by our manufacturers and suppliers that, as a result of competitive pricing
pressures or other factors, we are unable to pass on to our customers. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Uncertainty about future economic conditions
makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on
demand for our products and services, and consequently our results of operations, prospects and stock price. 

 Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition.  

        Sales outside the United States make up approximately 69% of our net revenue. In addition, an increasing portion of our business
activity is being conducted in emerging markets, including Brazil, Russia, India and China. Our future revenue, gross margin, expenses and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of
international factors, including: 



•ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation,
recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts;   
•longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers;   
•trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products;  
•local labor conditions and regulations; 

19










<A
NAME="page_dg72001_1_20"> 




































 
Table of Contents 



•managing a geographically dispersed workforce;   
•changes in the regulatory or legal environment;   
•differing technology standards or customer requirements;   
•import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments,
which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions;   
•difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes
in tax laws; and   
•fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic
points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. 


        The
factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on manufacturers in
Taiwan for the production of notebook computers and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. 

        As
approximately 69% of our sales are from countries outside of the United States, other currencies, particularly the euro, the British pound, Chinese Yuan Renminbi and the Japanese yen,
can have an impact on HP's results (expressed in U.S. dollars). Currency variations also contribute to variations in sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. Accordingly, fluctuations
in foreign currency rates, most notably the strengthening of the dollar against the euro, could have a material impact on our revenue growth in future periods. In addition, currency variations can
adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the
United States. We use a combination of forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. Such hedging activities may be ineffective
or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser
extent our cost of sales and financial condition. 

        In
many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us,
such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those
companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse
effect on our business. 

 Terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price.  


        Terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to HP, our employees, facilities,
partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. The potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other
actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in Iraq, have created many economic and political uncertainties. In addition, as a major multi-national company with
headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, actions against or by the United States may impact our business or employees. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences
or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our
suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



chain
and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. 


 Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.  

        Our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis,
floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly
self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters,
and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major
earthquake faults. In addition, all six of our worldwide IT data centers are located in the southern United States, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business
disruptions occurring in that geographical area. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being
consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster. 

 If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margin and profitability could suffer.  


        We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors
and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer
segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in
the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Other distribution risks are described below. 



•Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of
our channel partners were to weaken. 




Our
future operating results may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various sales channels, the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or
the loss of retail shelf space. Moreover, some of our wholesale and retail distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions,
including economic weakness and industry consolidation. Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures. Considerable
trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could
experience disruptions in distribution if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken.  



•Our inventory management is complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. 




We
must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing issues. Distributors may increase orders during periods of
product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and
the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in 



21




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents




end-user
demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or
obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and
otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. 




 We depend on third-party suppliers, and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to manage suppliers properly.  

        Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services and our suppliers' ability to
deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for us to meet critical schedules. Given the wide variety of systems, products and services that
we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain
components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm us. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages,
excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single source suppliers, as described
below.  



•Shortages. Occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain supplies
as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, and supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of which are also
customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. In particular, our PC business
relies heavily upon CMs and ODMs to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those CMs and ODMs to fulfill demand for our PC products. HP
represents a substantial portion of the business of some of these CMs and ODMs, and any changes to the nature or volume of business transacted by HP with a particular CM or ODM could adversely
affect the operations and financial condition of the CM or ODM and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that CM or ODM. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these supplies
may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the supplies may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build
products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose
time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer
some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays.   
•Oversupply. In order to secure supplies for the provision of products or
services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. In addition, we may purchase supplies strategically in advance of demand
to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future supplies. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in
excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin.   
•Contractual terms. As a result of binding price or purchase commitments
with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase supplies or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market
conditions. In the event that we become committed to purchase supplies or services for prices in excess of the 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents








current
market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, and our gross margin could suffer. In addition, many of our competitors
obtain products or components from the same CMs, ODMs and suppliers that we utilize. Our competitors may obtain better pricing and other terms and more favorable allocations of products and
components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain CMs, ODMs and suppliers could be limited. The practice employed by our PC business of
purchasing product components and transferring those components to its CMs and ODMs may create large supplier receivables with the CMs and ODMs that, depending on the
financial condition of the CMs and ODMs, may have risk of uncollectability. In addition, certain of our CMs, ODMs and suppliers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting
business with us. Any of these actions by our competitors, CMs, ODMs or suppliers could adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition.  



•Contingent workers. We also rely on third-party suppliers for the
provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating
to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers, as
described above. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws.   
•Single source suppliers. Our use of single source suppliers for certain
components could exacerbate our supplier issues. We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. For example,
we rely on Intel to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for many of our PCs, workstations, handheld computing devices and servers, and some of those processors are customized for our
products. New products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. Replacing a
single source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers initially may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. For some components, such as
customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from Intel, alternative sources may not exist or those alternative sources may be unable to produce the quantities of those components
necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and
other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single source suppliers under those
agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of supplies to HP. The loss of a single source supplier, the deterioration
of our relationship with a single source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single source supplier could adversely affect our
revenue and gross margins. 


 Our revenue and profitability could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our IT services business properly.  

        As a result of our acquisition of EDS in August 2008, we have significantly increased the size of the IT services portion of our
business. The risks that accompany that business differ from those of our other businesses and include the following: 



•The pricing and other terms of some of our IT services agreements, particularly our long-term IT outsourcing
services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. Any increased or unexpected 

23




 


<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents




costs
or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or
unprofitable, which would have an adverse affect on the profit margin of our IT services business.  



•Some of our IT services agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered
through billings over the life of the agreement. These agreements often involve the construction of new computer systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new
technologies. Substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful
completion of the development, construction and deployment phases.   
•Some of our outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study
by a mutually acceptable third-party. The benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a
peer comparison group, subject to agreed upon adjustment and normalization factors. Generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing has a difference outside a specified range, and the
difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith any appropriate adjustments to the pricing. This may result in the reduction of our rates
for the benchmarked services that could decrease the revenues and profitability of our IT services business. 


 If we fail to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations, our revenue could suffer.  

        Our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. In particular, our contracts with
federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and
performance. Any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil
and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future
government contracting. In addition, we are currently, and in the future may be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf
of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings
surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. If our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from
government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, we could suffer a material reduction in expected revenue. 

 The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable.  

        Our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will
likely be different in future periods than our current results. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix
reflected in that period's net revenue. In particular, IPG and certain of its business units such as printer supplies contribute significantly to our gross margin and profitability. Competition,
lawsuits, investigations and other risks affecting IPG, therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Certain segments, and ESS in particular, have a higher
fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



portfolios
than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly basis. In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to
investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high
growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and
other factors
may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. 

 We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of HP's Consolidated Financial Statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have
a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

        In connection with the preparation of HP's Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on
historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in this report.
In addition, as discussed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we make certain estimates under the provisions of SFAS No. 5 "Accounting for Contingencies," including
decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to
significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations. 

 Unanticipated changes in HP's tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.  

        We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts
we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our
intercompany charges or other matters and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However,
there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition.
In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred
tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets,
which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. Any of these changes could affect our profitability. 

 Our sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable.  

        In some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's
total sales occur towards the end of such quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult,
increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially
greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of
each quarter. Other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



component
pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number
of days in the quarter affected. 

        We
experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in quarterly results and financial condition. For example, sales to governments
(particularly sales to the United States government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, consumer sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal
and calendar years are the same spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year.
European sales are often weaker during the summer months. Demand during the spring and early summer also may be adversely impacted by market anticipation of seasonal trends. Moreover, to the extent
that we introduce new products in anticipation of seasonal demand trends, our discounting of existing products may adversely affect our gross margin prior to or shortly after such product launches.
Typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. 

 Any failure by us to execute on our strategy for operational efficiency successfully could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected.  


        We have adopted an operating framework that includes a disciplined focus on operational efficiency. As part of this framework, we have
adopted several initiatives, including: 



•A multi-year plan announced in the third fiscal quarter of 2006 to consolidate HP's 85 data centers worldwide
into six larger centers located in three U.S. cities and transform our IT infrastructure to improve operational efficiency and workforce effectiveness and significantly reduce our IT spending;  
•A multi-year program announced in the third fiscal quarter of 2006 to reduce real estate costs by
consolidating several hundred HP real estate locations worldwide to fewer core sites; and   
•A multi-year process of examining every function and every one of our businesses and functions in order to
optimize efficiency and reduce cost. 


        Our
ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, including
estimates and assumptions regarding the cost of consolidating the data centers and real estate locations, the amount of accelerated depreciation or asset impairment to be incurred when we vacate
facilities or cease using equipment before the end of their respective lease term or asset life, and the costs and timing of other activities in connection with these initiatives. These estimates and
assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays,
or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 

        In
addition, in September 2008, we announced a workforce restructuring program relating to our acquisition of EDS. We expect that program to involve the elimination of approximately
24,700 positions worldwide through fiscal 2012. We expect to replace approximately half of these positions in locations that will optimize our global footprint. Significant risks associated with these
actions and other workforce management issues that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of workforce
reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, particularly in Europe and Asia, delays in hiring and integrating new employees, decreases in employee morale and the failure to
meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. 

26






<A
NAME="page_di72001_1_27"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

 In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us.  

        In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial,
technical, sales, marketing and IT support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the IT support business and qualified sales representatives
are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the IT industry can be intense. The failure to hire executives and key employees or the loss of executives and key employees
could have a significant impact on our operations. 

 Changes to our compensation and benefit programs could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees.  

        We have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total rewards employee
compensation program in order to align employees' interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. Like other
companies, HP has implemented changes to its compensation programs intended to reduce fixed costs, create a high performance culture at all levels and provide an opportunity for employees to earn
significant rewards if HP delivers strong financial results. HP also has reduced the total number of share-based payment awards granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based
payment awards. In addition, effective in fiscal 2008, HP changed its primary form of share-based payment award to performance-based restricted stock units that contain conditions relating to HP's
long-term financial performance and continued employment by the recipient that may be viewed unfavorably by some employees who are accustomed to the fixed vesting and other terms
historically associated with other forms of share-based payment awards. Due to these changes in our compensation strategy, combined with the pension and other benefit plan changes undertaken to reduce
costs, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. Moreover, difficulties relating to obtaining
stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees in the future. 

 HP's stock price has historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of HP's stock difficult to predict.  


        HP's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. Some of the factors that could affect our stock price
are: 



•speculation in the press or investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market
share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market
volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, or executive team;   
•the announcement of new products, services, technological innovations or acquisitions by HP or its competitors;  
•quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flow from operations, changes in estimates by
the investment community or guidance provided by HP, and variations between actual and estimated financial results;   
•announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by HP's competitors and other companies in the IT industry; and  
•the timing and amount of share repurchases by HP. 

27




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents






        General
or industry-specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to HP's performance also may
affect the price of HP common stock. In particular, the stock market as a whole recently has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology
companies in ways that may have been unrelated to those companies' operating performance. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends to predict future stock prices, financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, following periods of volatility in a company's securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. If
instituted against HP, this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. 

 System security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption
could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.  

        Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential
information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software
programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce
or procure from third parties may contain
defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems,
bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of
service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. 

        Our
outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. Breaches
of our security measures could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for us and damage
to the company's brand and reputation. Accordingly, we could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions or incur significant expenses in
connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data
protection measures could be significant. 

        Portions
of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes
place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, including our current project to consolidate all of our worldwide IT data centers into six
centers, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and
interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial
results, stock price and reputation. 

 Any failure by us to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results,
business and prospects, and the costs, expenses and other financial and operational effects associated with managing, completing and integrating acquisitions may result in financial results that are
different than expected.  

        As part of our business strategy, we frequently acquire complementary companies or businesses, divest non-core businesses
or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). In order to pursue this
strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully 

28




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



complete
business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or
employees. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a business combination and
investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. In addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and
investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors
necessary to estimate our costs accurately. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these transactions less profitable or
unprofitable. Moreover, if we fail to identify and complete successfully business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources
to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect
on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. 

        Integration
issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges
involved in integration include: 



•combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced;   
•convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus,
preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer
uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts;   
•consolidating and rationalizing corporate IT infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various
acquisitions and integrating software code;   
•minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns;   
•persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees,
engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-U.S. employees, integrating employees into HP, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing
restructuring programs;   
•coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries,
facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures;   
•achieving savings from supply chain integration; and   
•managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. 


        Integration
and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions. For example, in August
2008, we completed our acquisition of EDS, and we are in the process of integrating EDS into our company. The size of the acquisition of EDS increases both the scope and consequence of ongoing
integration risks. We may not successfully address the integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits or synergies of the EDS
acquisition. If we fail to realize such anticipated benefits or synergies, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

        Managing
business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These business
combination 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



and
investment transactions also have resulted and in the future may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs,
employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments,
assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Moreover, HP has incurred
and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions, and, to the extent
that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur
additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders. In
addition, we may
borrow to finance an acquisition, including borrowing to replace the short-term borrowings used to finance our recently completed acquisition of EDS. Although our current credit ratings
have been affirmed by the three independent rating agencies taking into account the borrowing relating to the EDS acquisition, the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related
borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. Any potential future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an
acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and cost of borrowing and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. In addition, HP's effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain,
and business combination and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination and
investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to
financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter. 

 Unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings.  

        We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws
addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the
recycling, treatment and disposal of our products including batteries. In particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future
requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products and product take-back legislation. We
could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws
or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. Our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury
claims and clean up costs. Further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of
noncompliance or fault. The amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict. 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.  


        We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or
discouraging an acquisition of HP deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. These include provisions: 



•authorizing blank check preferred stock, which HP could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior
to our common stock;   
•limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, HP's directors and officers;   
•specifying that HP stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and
otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings;   
•requiring advance notice of proposals by HP stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for
nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors;   
•requiring a vote by the holders of two-thirds of HP's outstanding shares to amend certain bylaws relating to
HP stockholder meetings, the Board of Directors and indemnification; and   
•controlling the procedures for conduct of HP Board and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of HP
directors. 


        These
provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of HP. As a Delaware corporation, HP also is subject to
provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of
the holders of substantially all of HP's outstanding common stock. 

        Any
provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of HP could limit the opportunity for our
stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of HP common stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for HP common stock. 

<A
NAME="di72001_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments."> 
 
  ITEM 1B