ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


There are a number of significant factors which could cause actual conditions, events or results to
differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond
management’s control or its ability to accurately forecast or predict. In addition, other factors
besides those listed below or discussed in reports filed with the SEC could adversely affect our
results, as this list is not a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties.


Our access to liquidity may be negatively impacted if disruptions in credit markets occur, if
credit rating downgrades occur or if we fail to meet certain covenants. Funding costs may increase,
leading to reduced earnings.


We need liquidity to meet our off-season working capital requirements, to service debt obligations
including refinancing of maturing obligations, and related activities. Although we believe we have
sufficient liquidity to meet our current needs, our access to and the cost of liquidity could be
negatively impacted in the event of credit-rating downgrades or if we fail to meet existing debt
covenants. In addition, events could occur which could increase our need for liquidity above
current levels.



     
If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, the cost of debt would likely increase and
capital market availability could decrease or become unavailable. Our
unsecured committed lines of credit (CLOCs) are subject to


12




Table of Contents





various covenants, including a covenant requiring that we maintain minimum equity equal to $650.0
million, and a requirement that we reduce the aggregate outstanding principal amount of short-term
debt (as defined) to $200.0 million or less for a minimum period of thirty consecutive days during
the period from March 1 to June 30 of each year. Violation of a covenant could impair our access to
liquidity currently available through the CLOCs. If current sources
of liquidity were to become unavailable, we would need to obtain
additional sources of funding, which may not be possible.

The financial services industry faces substantial litigation risks, and such litigation may damage
our reputation or result in material liabilities and losses.


We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including
arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in connection with our various business
activities. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could
cause our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion can also result from our actual or alleged
conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation and could cause the market price of our
stock to decline. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for additional information.


Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our customers’ personal and financial
information could result in significant fines, penalties and damages and could harm our brand and
reputation.


Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure of consumer financial information have drawn increased
attention from federal and state governments. The IRS generally prohibits the use or disclosure by
tax return preparers of taxpayers’ information without the prior written consent of the taxpayer.
In addition, other regulations require financial service providers to adopt and disclose consumer
privacy policies and provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to “opt-out” of having
personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third-parties for marketing purposes. Although we
have established security procedures to protect against identity theft, breaches of our clients’
privacy may occur. To the extent the measures we have taken prove to be insufficient or inadequate,
we may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could result in significant
fines, penalties or damages and harm to our brand and reputation.


     In addition, changes in these federal and state regulatory requirements could result in more
stringent requirements and could result in a need to change business practices, including how
information is disclosed. Establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these new
requirements may increase costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.


We are subject to operational risk, which may result in incurring financial and reputational
losses.


There is a risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, theft or fraud.
These can occur in many forms including, among others, errors, business interruptions,
inappropriate behavior of or misconduct by our employees or those contracted to perform services
for us, and vendors that do not perform in accordance with their contractual agreements. These
events can potentially result in financial losses or other damages. We rely on internal and
external information and technological systems to manage our operations and are exposed to risk of
loss resulting from breaches in the security or other failures of these systems. Replacement of our
major operational systems could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our core
business operations and increase our risk of loss resulting from disruptions of normal operating
processes and procedures that may occur during the implementation of new information and
transaction systems.


     We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures may prove to be
inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in
data and information. It is possible that any lapses in the effective operations of controls and
procedures could materially affect earnings or harm our reputation. In an organization as large and
complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting could be
material to us.


TAX SERVICES


Government initiatives that simplify tax return preparation could reduce the need for our services
as a third-party tax return preparer.


Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers such as us because of the level of
complexity involved in the tax return preparation and filing process. From time to time, government
officials propose measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of tax returns or to
provide additional assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns. The passage of
any measures that significantly

13




Table of Contents




simplify tax return preparation or otherwise reduce the need for a third-party tax return preparer
could reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues or results of operations to decline.


Federal and state legislators and regulators have increasingly taken an active role in regulating,
and third-party financial institutions may cease or significantly reduce the offering of, financial
products such as RALs. These trends or potential developments could impede our ability to
facilitate these financial products, reduce demand for our services and harm our business.



Changes in government regulation related to RALs could limit the
offering of RALs  to our clients or our
ability to purchase participation interests. Third-party financial institutions currently
originating RALs and similar products could decide to cease or significantly limit such offerings
and related collection practices. Changes in IRS practices could impair our ability to limit our
bad debt exposure. Changes in any of these, as well as possible litigation related to RALs, may
cause our revenues or results of operations to decline. See discussion of RAL litigation in Item 3,
“Legal Proceedings.”


     Loss of the RAL program could cause our revenues or profitability to decline. In addition to
the loss of revenues and income directly attributable to the RAL program, the inability to offer
RALs could indirectly result in the loss of retail tax clients and associated tax preparation
revenues, unless we were able to take mitigating actions.


     Total revenues related directly to the RAL program (including revenues from participation
interests) were $189.8 million for the year ended April 30, 2008, representing 4.3% of consolidated
revenues and contributed $87.0 million to the Tax Services segment’s pretax results. Revenues
related directly to the RAL program totaled $193.5 million for the year ended April 30, 2007,
representing 4.8% of consolidated revenues and contributed $120.5 million to pretax results.


Increased competition for tax preparation clients in our retail offices, online and software
channels could adversely affect our current market share and profitability, and could limit our
ability to grow our client base.


The retail tax services business is highly competitive. There are a substantial number of tax
return preparation firms and accounting firms offering tax return preparation services. Many tax
return preparation firms and many firms not otherwise in the tax return preparation business are
involved in providing electronic filing, RALs and other related services to the public. Commercial
tax return preparers and electronic filers are highly competitive with regard to price and service.



     Our digital tax solutions businesses compete with a number of companies. Price and marketing
competition for tax preparation services increased in recent years.


     See clients served statistics included in Item 7, under “Tax Services.”

BUSINESS SERVICES



Our alternative practice structure involves relationships with Attest Firms that are subject to
regulatory restrictions and other constraints. Failure to comply with
these restrictions, or operational difficulties involving the Attest
Firms,  could damage our brand reputation, lead to
reduced earnings and impair our investment in RSM.


Our relationship with the Attest Firms requires us to comply with applicable regulations regarding
the practice of public accounting and auditor independence rules and requirements. Many of our
clients are also clients of the Attest Firms. In addition, our relationship with the Attest Firms
closely links our RSM McGladrey brand with the Attest Firms. If the Attest Firms were to encounter
regulatory or independence issues resulting from their relationship with us or if significant
litigation arose involving the Attest Firms or their services, such developments could have an
adverse effect on our brand reputation and our ability to realize the mutual benefits of our
relationship. In addition, a significant judgment or settlement of a claim against the Attest Firms
could (1) impair M&P’s ability to repay amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility it
maintains with us, (2) impact RSM’s ability to attract and retain clients and quality
professionals, (3) have a significant indirect adverse effect on RSM, as the Attest Firm partners
are also RSM employees, and (4) result in significant management distraction. This in turn could
result in reduced revenue and earnings and, if sufficiently significant, impairment of our
investment in RSM.



14




Table of Contents





CONSUMER FINANCIAL SERVICES


We are subject to extensive government regulation, including banking and securities rules and
regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable securities and banking laws, rules and
regulations, we could be subject to disciplinary actions, damages, penalties or restrictions that
could significantly harm our business.


The SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions can, among
other things, censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or suspend or expel a broker-dealer or
any of its officers or employees. The OTS may take similar action with respect to our banking
activities. Similarly, the attorneys general of each state could bring legal action on behalf of
the citizens of the various states to ensure compliance with local laws.



     HRBFA must comply with many laws and rules, including rules relating to possession and control
of customer funds and securities, margin lending and execution and settlement of transactions. The
SEC, FINRA and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the
maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. Net capital is the net
worth of a broker or dealer (assets minus liabilities), less deductions for certain types of
assets. Failure to maintain the required net capital could result in suspension or revocation of
registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA and could ultimately lead to
liquidation.


     HRB Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the OTS.
Failure to meet minimum capital requirements may trigger actions by regulators that, if undertaken,
could have a direct material effect on HRB Bank. HRB Bank
must meet specific capital guidelines involving quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and
certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. A bank’s
capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators
about the strength of components of its capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet
transactions and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital
adequacy require HRB Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of tangible equity, total
risk-based capital and Tier 1 capital. In addition to these minimum ratio requirements, HRB Bank is
required to continually maintain a 12.0% minimum leverage ratio through fiscal year 2012.


     See Item 8, note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for the calculation of required
ratios.

Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may result in
deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio, and such deterioration could have a negative
impact on our business.


The overall credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment is impacted by the strength of the
U.S. economy and local economic conditions, including residential housing prices. Economic trends
that negatively affect housing prices and the job market could result in deterioration in credit
quality of our mortgage loan portfolio and a decline in the value of associated collateral. Future
interest rate resets could also lead to increased delinquencies in our mortgage loans held for
investment. Recent trends in the residential mortgage loan market reflect an increase in loan
delinquencies and declining collateral values. As a result of similar trends in our loan portfolio,
we recorded significant loan loss provisions during fiscal year 2008.



     Our loan portfolio is concentrated in the states of Florida, California, New York and
Wisconsin, which represented 19.9%, 17.3%, 12.8% and 8.8%, respectively, of our total mortgage
loans held for investment at April 30, 2008. No other state held more than 5% of our loan balances.
If adverse trends in the residential mortgage loan market continue, particularly in geographic
areas in which we own a greater concentration of mortgage loans, we could incur additional
significant loan loss provisions.


     Mortgage loans purchased from OOMC and its affiliates represented approximately 75% of total
loans held for investment at April 30, 2008. These loans have been subject to higher delinquency
rates than other loans in our portfolio, and may expose us to greater risk of credit loss.

Downturns in the securities markets increase the credit risk associated with margin lending and
stock loan transactions.


We permit customers to purchase securities on margin. A downturn in the securities markets may
impact the value of collateral held in connection with margin receivables and may reduce its value
below the amount borrowed, potentially creating collections issues with our margin receivables. In
addition, we frequently borrow securities from and lend securities to other broker-dealers. Under
regulatory guidelines, when we borrow or lend securities, we must generally simultaneously disburse
or receive cash deposits. A sharp change in security market values may result in losses if
counterparties to the borrowing and lending transactions fail to honor their commitments.




15





Table of Contents


Our ability to retain and attract qualified financial advisors is critical to the success of our
business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.


Attracting and retaining experienced financial advisors is extremely competitive in the investment
industry. Additionally, in this industry, clients tend to follow their advisors, regardless of
their affiliated investment firm. The inability to recruit and retain qualified and productive
advisors may cause our revenues or profitability to decline.


Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our business, including net interest income and
earnings.


Net interest income is an important source of revenue for this segment. Our results of operations
depend, in part, on our level of net interest income and our effective management of the impact of
changing interest rates and varying asset and liability maturities.



     HRB Bank raises funds by, among other things, accepting deposits from depositors, which we use
to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and other interest-earning assets. We earn
interest on these loans and assets and pay interest on the money we borrow and on the deposits we
accept from depositors. Changes in interest rates, including changes in the relationship between
short-term rates and long-term rates, may have negative effects on our net interest income and
earnings. Changes in interest rates and responses by our competitors to those changes may affect
the rate of customer prepayments for mortgages and the level of mortgage loan delinquencies. These
changes can reduce the overall yield on our assets. Changes in interest rates and responses by our
competitors to these changes may also affect customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit
accounts they have with us. These changes may require us to replace withdrawn balances with
higher-cost alternative sources of funding.


     HRBFA holds interest bearing receivables from customers, brokers and dealers, which consist
primarily of amounts due on margin transactions and also earns a spread on customer balances held
in FDIC-insured bank accounts. We fund short-term margin balances with short-term variable rate
liabilities from customers, brokers and dealers, including stock loan activity. Our fixed income
portfolio is affected by changes in market rates and prices.


DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS


OOMC is subject to potential contingent liabilities stemming from discontinued mortgage operations,
which may result in significant financial losses.


Litigation. Although OOMC terminated its mortgage loan origination activities and sold its loan
servicing business during fiscal year 2008, it remains subject to investigations, claims and
lawsuits pertaining to its loan origination and servicing activities prior to such termination and
sale. The costs involved in defending against and/or resolving these investigations, claims and
lawsuits may be substantial in some instances and the ultimate resulting liability is difficult to
predict. In the current non-prime mortgage environment, the number and frequency of investigations,
claims and lawsuits has increased over historical experience and is likely to continue at increased
levels. In the event of unfavorable outcomes, the amount OOMC may be required to pay in the
discharge of liabilities or settlements could be substantial and, because OOMC’s operating results
are included in our consolidated financial statements, could have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated results of operations.



     Loan Repurchase Obligations. OOMC remains exposed to losses relating to mortgage loans it
previously originated. Non-prime mortgage loans originated by OOMC were sold either as whole-loan
sales to single third-party buyers or in the form of a securitization. In the case of a
securitization, non-prime mortgage loans were pooled and sold as mortgage backed securities,
generally with a residual interest retained by OOMC. Retained residuals were frequently pooled and
sold in subsequent transactions referred to as net interest margin transactions.


     OOMC entered into indemnification agreements with third-parties relating to mortgage loans
transferred through whole-loan sales or securitizations, which may require OOMC to repurchase loans
previously sold or otherwise indemnify third-parties for losses incurred by them up to the agreed
upon amount of indemnification.
In some instances, H&R Block, Inc. was required to guarantee OOMC’s obligations.
Obligations to repurchase loans may arise from early payment
default provisions or representation and warranty breaches. Early payment default provisions
involved third-party whole-loan buyers whereby OOMC is generally required to repurchase loans if
the first monthly payment due to the purchaser is not made. Given that OOMC ceased originating
loans in January 2008, we do not expect continuing risk of loss related to early payment defaults.
Repurchase obligations may also arise from breaches of various representations and warranties OOMC
made when selling loans, which in turn may require OOMC to either repurchase the applicable
mortgage loans or indemnify the purchaser or insurer. These


16




Table of Contents





representations and warranties vary based on the nature of the transaction and the buyer’s
requirements but generally pertain to, among other things, (1) OOMC’s ownership of the loan, (2)
the validity of the lien securing the loan, (3) the absence of delinquent taxes or liens against
property securing the loan, (4) the effectiveness of title insurance on the property securing the
loan, (5) the process used in selecting loans for inclusion in a transaction, (6) compliance with
loan criteria established by the purchaser, (7) the accuracy of information provided by the
borrowers, (8) compliance with OOMC underwriting guidelines,
and (9) compliance with applicable laws. These representations and warranties and
corresponding repurchase obligations generally are not subject to stated limits or a stated term
and, therefore, may continue for the foreseeable future.


     When OOMC repurchases loans, it is subject to loss for the difference between the principal
amount of the loan (together with accrued interest) and the value it will realize upon resale of
the loan or liquidation of the property securing the loan. OOMC routinely estimates future
potential obligations relating to loan repurchases and records liabilities currently for losses it
may realize in the future. Future losses may exceed amounts currently reflected in the financial
statements and are impacted by the following factors:






     
    §
     
    The volume of claims by third-parties requesting OOMC to repurchase loans. Claim volume
may be impacted by future delinquencies in the underlying loans and/or actual or perceived
credit loss exposure;



     

     
    §
     
    OOMC’s ability to defend against claims that do not represent valid representation and
warranty breaches;



     

     
    §
     
    The value that OOMC is able to realize for loans actually repurchased. Those values are
impacted primarily by demand and pricing for mortgage loans in the secondary market, and
residential home prices.





     To the extent that future claim volumes exceed current estimates, or the value of mortgage
loans and residential home prices decline, future losses may be greater than these estimates and
those differences may be significant.

The valuation of OOMC’s residual interests and mortgage loans held for sale includes many estimates
and assumptions made by management surrounding interest rates, prepayment speeds and credit losses.
Variation in the factors underlying these assumptions could affect our results of operations.


At
April 30, 2008, OOMC held residual interests valued at
$16.7 million, mortgage loans held for sale (net
of related allowances) totaling $13.0 million and real estate owned of $6.2 million. The mortgage
industry and housing market continue to be extremely volatile, which could result in further
impairments to OOMC’s residual interests and mortgage loans held for sale. See additional
discussion of the performance of mortgage operations in Item 7, under “Discontinued Operations.”






ITEM 1B