ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


In this report, and from time to time throughout the year, we share our expectations for the
Company’s future performance. The following explains the critical risk factors impacting our
business and reasons actual results may differ from our expectations. This discussion does not
intend to be a comprehensive list and there may be other risks and factors that may have an effect
on our business.



     LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL – We use capital primarily to fund working capital requirements, pay
dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and acquire businesses. We are also dependent on
commercial paper issuances and/or lines of credit to fund RAL participations and seasonal working
capital needs. A disruption in such markets could adversely affect our access to these funds. To
meet our future financing needs, we may issue additional debt or equity securities.


     LITIGATION – We are involved in lawsuits in the normal course of our business related to RALs,
our POM guarantee program, electronic filing of tax returns, Express IRAs, losses incurred by
customers in their investment accounts, mortgage lending activities, business valuation services
and other matters. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and
could adversely affect our results of operations. Negative public opinion can also result from our
actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation and adversely affecting
the market price of our stock. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for additional information.


     PRIVACY OF CLIENT INFORMATION – Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure of consumer
financial information have drawn increased attention from federal and state governments. The IRS
generally prohibits the use or disclosure by tax return preparers of taxpayers’ information without
the prior written consent of the taxpayer. In addition, other regulations require financial service
providers to adopt and disclose consumer privacy policies and provide consumers with a reasonable
opportunity to opt-out of having personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third parties for
marketing purposes. Although we have established security procedures to protect against identity
theft, breaches of our clients’ privacy may occur. To the extent the measures we have taken prove
to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions,
which could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to our brand and reputation.


     In addition, changes in these federal and state regulatory requirements could result in more
stringent requirements and could result in a need to change business practices, including how
information is disclosed. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to access the capital markets.


     INTERNAL CONTROL CERTIFICATION – We have documented and tested our internal control procedures
in accordance with various SEC rules governing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX 404). SOX
404 requires us to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting
annually, and obtain an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls from our Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm. Management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial
reporting may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal controls over
financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Should we, or our
independent auditors, determine in future periods that we have a material weaknesses in our
internal controls over financial reporting, our results of operations or financial condition may be
adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline.


     OPERATIONAL RISK – There is a risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or
systems, theft or fraud. These can occur in many forms including, among others, errors, business
interruptions, inappropriate behavior of or misconduct by our employees or those contracted to
perform services for us, and


15




Table of Contents





vendors that do not perform in accordance with their contractual agreements. These events can
potentially result in financial losses or other damages. We rely on internal and external
information and technological systems to manage our operations and are exposed to risk of loss
resulting from breaches in the security, or other failures of these systems. Replacement of our
major operational systems could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our core
business operations and increase our risk of loss resulting from disruptions of normal operating
processes and procedures that may occur during the implementation of new information and
transaction systems.


     POTENTIAL SALE TRANSACTION – On April 19, 2007, we entered into an agreement to sell OOMC. The
purchase price to be received in connection with the sale of OOMC will consist of payments based on
the fair value of the adjusted tangible net assets of OOMC (as defined in the agreement) as of the
date of sale less $300.0 million. Because the final sale price will be based on third-party bids
and valuations received at closing as well as the ultimate value received upon disposition of
certain assets after closing, and because market conditions have changed and may change
significantly during the period prior to closing, the value of the adjusted tangible net assets of
the business at closing may be significantly different than the value as of April 30, 2007. In
addition, the transaction is subject to various closing conditions, including that (1) OOMC
maintain at least $8.0 billion of total capacity in its warehouse facilities throughout the period
to the closing date (of which at least $2.0 billion is to be in the form of unused capacity at the
closing date), (2) OOMC have servicer ratings of at least RPS2 by Fitch, SQ2 by Moody’s and Above
Average by S&P, and (3) agreed upon regulatory and other approvals and consents be obtained. See
discussion of warehouse facilities and related waivers in Item 7 under “Off-Balance Sheet Financing
Arrangements.” If the closing conditions are not satisfied by the requisite time, the sale could be
terminated. Failure to complete this transaction could adversely affect the market price of our
stock. If conditions in the non-prime mortgage industry, particularly in home appreciation, continue to decline, our operating results, capital levels and liquidity could be
negatively impacted during the periods we continue to own OOMC.

TAX SERVICES


COMPETITIVE POSITION – Increased competition for tax preparation clients in our retail offices,
online and software channels could adversely affect our current market share and limit our ability
to grow our client base. See clients served statistics included in Item 7, under “Tax Services.”



     REFUND ANTICIPATION LOANS – Changes in government regulation related to RALs could adversely
affect our ability to offer RALs or our ability to purchase participation interests. Third-party
financial institutions currently originating RALs and similar products could decide to cease or
significantly limit such offerings and related collection practices. Changes in IRS practices could
adversely affect our ability to use the IRS debt indicator to limit our bad debt exposure. Changes
in any of these, as well as possible litigation related to RALs, may adversely affect our results
of operations. See discussion of RAL litigation in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”


     Since July 1996, we have been a party to agreements with HSBC and its predecessors to
participate in RALs provided by a lending bank to H&R Block tax clients. During fiscal year 2006,
we signed a new agreement with HSBC under which HSBC and its designated bank will provide funding
of all RALs offered through June 2011. We may extend this agreement for two successive one-year
periods. If HSBC and its designated bank do not continue to provide funding for RALs, we could seek
other RAL lenders to continue offering RALs to our clients or consider alternative funding
strategies.


     The RAL program is regularly reviewed both from a business perspective and to ensure
compliance with applicable state and federal laws. It is our intention to continue to offer the RAL
program in the foreseeable future.


     Loss of the RAL program could adversely affect our operating results. In addition to the loss
of revenues and income directly attributable to the RAL program, the inability to offer RALs could
indirectly result in the loss of retail tax clients and associated tax preparation revenues, unless
we were able to take mitigating actions. Total revenues related directly to the RAL program
(including revenues from participation interests) were $193.5 million for the year ended April 30,
2007, representing 4.8% of consolidated revenues and contributed $120.5 million to the segment’s
pretax results. Revenues related directly to the RAL program totaled $179.3 million for the year
ended April 30, 2006, representing 5.0% of consolidated revenues and contributed $106.5 million to
the segment’s pretax results.

BUSINESS SERVICES


ALTERNATIVE PRACTICE STRUCTURE WITH ATTEST FIRMS – Our relationship with the Attest Firms requires
us to comply with applicable regulations regarding the practice of public accounting and auditor
independence rules and requirements. In addition, our relationship with the Attest Firms closely
links our RSM McGladrey brand with the Attest Firms. If the Attest Firms were to encounter
regulatory or independence issues resulting from their relationship with us or if significant
litigation arose



16




Table of Contents





involving the Attest Firms or their services which implicated RSM, our brand reputation and our
ability to realize the mutual benefits of our relationship, such as the ability to attract and
retain quality professionals, could be impaired.


CONSUMER FINANCIAL SERVICES


REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT – GENERAL – The securities and banking industries are subject to extensive
regulation. The SEC, the NYSE, the NASD and other self-regulatory organizations and state
securities commissions can, among other things, censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders or
suspend or expel a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. The OTS may take similar
action with respect to our banking activities. Similarly, the attorneys general of each state could
bring legal action on behalf of the citizens of the various states to ensure compliance with local
laws.



     REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT – BROKER-DEALER – HRBFA must comply with many laws and rules, including
rules relating to possession and control of customer funds and securities, margin lending and
execution and settlement of transactions.


     The SEC, NYSE and NASD and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect
to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. Net capital is
the net worth of a broker or dealer (assets minus liabilities), less deductions for certain types
of assets. Failure to maintain the required net capital could result in suspension or revocation of
registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by the NYSE and/or NASD, and could ultimately
lead to the firm’s liquidation.


     HRBFA will be transitioning individual clients in certain fee-in-lieu-of-commission accounts
to a commission-based or alternative brokerage account, or to investment adviser accounts as a
result of recent court actions on an SEC rule. As of April 30, 2007, HRBFA had approximately $2.9
billion of assets under management and realized approximately $24.0 million in revenue from these
accounts for fiscal year 2007. During the process of converting these accounts, we are exposed to
risk in advisor and client retention, product pricing and related production revenues.


     REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT – BANKING – H&R Block, Inc., as a savings and loan holding company, and
HRB Bank, as a federally chartered savings bank, are subject to extensive regulation, supervision
and examination by the OTS and FDIC. Such regulation covers all banking business, including lending
practices, safeguarding deposits, capital structure, recordkeeping, transactions with affiliates
and conduct and qualifications of personnel.


     HRB Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the OTS.
Failure to meet minimum capital requirements may trigger actions by regulators that, if undertaken,
could have a direct material effect on HRB Bank and our consolidated financial statements. HRB Bank
must meet specific capital guidelines involving quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and
certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. A bank’s
capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators
about the strength of components of its capital, risk weightings of assets, off-balance sheet
transactions and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital
adequacy require HRB Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of tangible equity, total
risk-based capital and Tier 1 capital. In addition to these
minimum ratio requirements, HRB Bank is required to continually
maintain a 12.0% minimum leverage ratio as a condition of
its charter-approval order through fiscal year 2009. This condition was extended through fiscal
year 2012 as a result of a Supervisory Directive issued on May 29, 2007. There are no conditions or
events since March 31, 2007 that management believes have
changed HRB Bank’s category. We will monitor regulatory
compliance with this ratio monthly and discuss with the OTS in the
event the minimum is not maintained.


     As of March 31, 2007, our most recent Thrift Financial Report (TFR) filing with the OTS, HRB
Bank was a “well capitalized” institution under the prompt corrective action provisions of the
FDIC. See Item 8, note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.


     H&R Block, Inc. is subject to a three percent minimum ratio of adjusted tangible capital to
adjusted total assets, as defined by the OTS. We fell below the three percent minimum ratio at
April 30, 2007 and the OTS issued a Supervisory Directive on May 29, 2007. Failure to comply with
the Supervisory Directive could trigger additional discretionary actions by the OTS such as a
supervisory agreement, cease-and-desist orders and civil monetary penalties. See Item 7,
“Regulatory Environment” and Item 8, note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for
additional information, including discussion of our non-compliance with the three percent minimum
capital requirement and actions taken by the OTS. If we are not in a position to cure deficiencies,
a resulting failure could impair our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock, acquire
businesses and pay dividends.


     CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK – The overall credit quality of HRB Bank’s mortgage loans held
for investment is impacted by the strength of the U. S. economy and local economies. We continually
monitor changes in the economy, particularly unemployment rates and housing prices, as these
factors can impact the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Economic trends that negatively
affect housing prices and the job


17




Table of Contents





market could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio.
Our loan portfolio is concentrated in the states of Florida, California, New York and Wisconsin,
which represented 18.8%, 16.3%, 12.8% and 9.7%, respectively, of our total mortgage loans held for
investment at April 30, 2007. No other state held more than 5% of our loan balances.


     INTEGRATION INTO THE H&R BLOCK BRAND – We are working to foster an advice-based relationship
with our tax clients through our retail tax office network. This advice-based relationship is key
to the integration of Consumer Financial Services into the H&R Block brand and deepening our
current client relationships. If we are unable to successfully integrate, it may significantly
impact our ability to differentiate our business from other financial service providers and grow
our client base.


     RECRUITING AND RETENTION OF FINANCIAL ADVISORS – Attracting and retaining experienced
financial advisors is extremely competitive in the investment industry. Additionally, in this
industry, clients tend to follow their advisors, regardless of their affiliated investment firm.
The inability to recruit and retain qualified and productive advisors, may adversely affect our
results of operations.


     INTEREST RATE RISK – Net interest income is an important source of revenue for this segment.
Our ability to manage interest rate risk could impact our financial condition. Our results of
operations depend, in part, on our level of net interest income and our effective management of the
impact of changing interest rates and varying asset and liability maturities. Many factors affect
interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic
and political conditions.


     RECURRING OPERATING LOSSES – Continuing operating losses at HRBFA may
impact the valuation of goodwill and long-lived assets. Such losses could also necessitate
additional capital contributions to comply with regulatory requirements. The inability to operate
this segment in a profitable manner may adversely affect our results of operations.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL – We are dependent on the use of our off-balance sheet arrangements to fund
our daily non-prime mortgage loan originations, and depend on the secondary market to securitize
and sell mortgage loans and residual interests. Our off-balance sheet arrangements are subject to
certain covenants, including a “minimum net income” financial covenant. As of April 30, 2007, OOMC
did not meet the “minimum net income” financial covenant contained in certain of its committed
warehouse facilities. This covenant requires OOMC to maintain a cumulative minimum net income of at
least $1 for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ended April 30, 2007. On April 27, 2007, OOMC
obtained waivers of the minimum net income financial covenants from all of the warehouse facility
providers. These waivers extend through various dates. Two waivers are subject to OOMC having a
specified amount of total warehouse capacity. If we do not obtain extensions of facilities and
waivers that expire before July 31, 2007 or expand existing
capacity, we would be in violation of this warehouse capacity
requirement.



     OOMC will not meet this financial covenant at July 31, 2007. We have, however, obtained
waivers from a sufficient number of warehouse providers to allow OOMC to continue its off-balance
sheet financing activities. At our current origination levels, we estimate we would only need
waivers for between $3.0 billion and $4.0 billion of available capacity at any given time. However,
the sale of OOMC is subject to various closing conditions, including that OOMC maintain at least
$8.0 billion of total capacity in its warehouse facilities throughout the period to the closing
date (of which at least $2.0 billion is to be in the form of unused capacity at the closing date).


     If OOMC cannot obtain extensions or waivers, warehouse facility providers would have the right
to terminate their future funding obligations under the applicable warehouse facilities, terminate
OOMC’s right to service the loans remaining in the applicable warehouse or request funding of the
10% guarantee. This termination could adversely impact OOMC’s ability to fund new loans and our
ability to complete the OOMC sales transaction. See additional discussion in Item 7, under
“Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements.”


     COMPETITIVE POSITION – The majority of our mortgage loan applications are submitted through a
network of brokers who have relationships with many other mortgage lenders. Unfavorable changes in
our pricing, service or other factors could result in a decline in our mortgage origination volume.
A significant decline in our servicer ratings could adversely affect our pricing and origination
volume. Increased competition among mortgage lenders can also result in a decline in coupon rates
offered to our borrowers, which in turn lowers margins and could adversely affect our gains on
sales of mortgage loans.


     MARKET RISKS – Our day-to-day operating activities of originating and selling mortgage loans
have many aspects of interest rate risk. Additionally, the valuation of our retained residual
interests and mortgage servicing rights includes many estimates and assumptions made by management
surrounding interest rates, prepayment speeds and credit losses. Variation in interest rates or the
factors underlying our assumptions could affect our results of operations. See Item 7A, under
“Discontinued Operations” for discussion of interest rate risk, and Item 7, “Critical Accounting
Policies” for discussion of our valuation methodology.


18




Table of Contents



     Conditions in the non-prime mortgage industry were challenging throughout fiscal year 2007,
and particularly in our fourth quarter. Our mortgage operations, as well as the entire industry,
were impacted by deteriorating conditions in the secondary market, where reduced investor demand
for loan purchases, higher investor yield requirements and increased estimates for future losses
reduced the value of non-prime loans. Under these conditions non-prime originators generally
reported significant increases in losses and many were unable to meet their financial obligations.
As a result, during our fourth quarter our mortgage operations originated mortgage loans that, by
the time we sold them in the secondary market, were valued at less than par. Conditions in the
non-prime mortgage industry resulted in significant losses in our mortgage operations during the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. See additional discussion of the performance of our mortgage
operations in Item 7, under “Discontinued Operations.” If conditions in the non-prime mortgage
industry do not improve, it could adversely affect the results of our mortgage operations.


     LEGISLATION AND REGULATION – Several states and cities are considering or have passed laws,
regulations or ordinances aimed at curbing predatory lending and servicing practices. The federal
government is also considering legislative and regulatory proposals in this regard. In general,
these proposals involve lowering the existing federal HOEPA thresholds for defining a “high-cost”
loan and establishing enhanced protections and remedies for borrowers who receive such loans. If
unfavorable laws and regulations are passed, it could restrict our ability to originate loans. If
rating agencies refuse to rate our loans, loan buyers may not want to purchase loans labeled as
“high-cost,” and it could restrict our ability to sell our loans in the secondary market.
Accordingly, all of these items could adversely affect our results of operations.


     In 2002, the Federal Reserve Board adopted changes to Regulation C promulgated under the HMDA.
Among other things, the new regulations require lenders to report pricing data on loans with annual
percentage rates that exceed the yield on treasury bills with comparable maturities by 3%. The
expanded reporting was effective in 2004 for reports filed in 2005. We anticipate that a majority
of our loans would be subject to the expanded reporting requirements. The expanded reporting does
not provide for additional loan information such as credit risk, debt-to-income ratio,
loan-to-value ratio, documentation level or other salient loan features. However, reported
information may lead to increased litigation as the information could be misinterpreted by third
parties and could adversely affect our results of operations.


     COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK – Derivative instruments involve counterparty credit risk, which is
the risk that a counterparty may fail to perform on its contractual obligations. We manage this
risk through the use of a policy that includes credit standard guidelines, counterparty
diversification, monitoring of counterparty financial condition, use of master netting agreements
with counterparties, and exposure limits based on counterparty credit, exposure amount and
management risk tolerance. The policy is reviewed on an annual basis and as conditions warrant. See
Item 7A, under “Discontinued Operations” and Item 8, note 20 to our consolidated financial
statements for discussion of our derivative instruments.


     DELINQUENCY RATES – Our underwriting criteria or collection methods may not provide adequate
protection against the risks inherent in the loans we originate and sell. In the event of a
default, we may be required to repurchase loans previously sold. Repurchased loans are normally
sold in subsequent sale transactions. In the event a repurchased loan cannot be sold, the
collateral value of the financed item may not cover the outstanding loan balance and costs of
recovery. In the event our mortgage loans held for sale or mortgage loans underlying our residual
interests in securitizations experience higher delinquencies, foreclosures, repossessions or losses
than anticipated, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Any
sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to
originate and sell loans, the prices we receive on our loans, or the values of our mortgage
servicing rights and residual interests in securitizations, which could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations. See additional discussion of our loan repurchases in
Item 8, note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.


     REAL ESTATE MARKET – Our residual interests and beneficial interest in Trusts are secured by
mortgage loans, which are in turn secured by residential real estate. Any material decline in real
estate values would likely result in higher delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and losses.
Additionally, a significant portion of the mortgage loans we originate or service is secured by
properties in California. A decline in the economy or the residential real estate market values, or
the occurrence of a natural disaster not covered by standard homeowners’ insurance policies, such
as an earthquake, hurricane or wildfire, could decrease the value of mortgaged properties.




ITEM 1B