Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for
    additional information.


 











 


    BUSINESS
    SERVICES





    GENERAL –
    Our Business Services segment offers tax, consulting and
    accounting services and capital markets services to
    middle-market companies. Segment revenues constituted 22.0% of
    our consolidated revenues from continuing operations for fiscal
    year 2011, 22.2% for fiscal year 2010 and 22.0% for fiscal year
    2009.





    This segment consists primarily of RSM, which provides tax and
    consulting services in 85 cities and 25 states and
    offers services in 20 of the 25 top U.S. markets.





    Effective July 20, 2010, our Business Services segment
    acquired certain non-attest assets and liabilities of
    Caturano & Company, Inc. (Caturano), a Boston-based
    accounting firm, for an aggregate purchase price of
    $40.2 million. We expect this acquisition to expand our
    presence in the Boston market. We made cash payments of
    $32.6 million, including $29.8 million at closing.
    Payment of the remaining purchase price is deferred and will be
    paid over the next 13 years. See additional discussion in
    Item 8, note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements.





    From time to time, we have acquired related businesses and may
    continue to do so if future conditions warrant and satisfactory
    terms can be negotiated.





    ALTERNATIVE
    PRACTICE STRUCTURE WITH McGLADREY & PULLEN
    LLP –
    McGladrey & Pullen LLP (M&P) is a limited
    liability partnership, owned 100% by certified public
    accountants (CPAs), which provides attest services to
    middle-market clients.





    H&R
    BLOCK 2011
    Form 10K  5
    








Table of Contents





    Under state accountancy regulations, a firm cannot provide
    attest services unless it is properly licensed which requires
    that the firm be majority-owned and controlled by licensed CPAs.
    As such, RSM cannot be a licensed CPA firm and cannot provide
    attest services. Since 1999, RSM and M&P have operated in
    what is known as an “alternative practice structure”
    (APS). Through the APS, RSM and M&P offer clients a full
    range of attest and non-attest services in compliance with
    applicable accountancy regulations. In fiscal year 2010, RSM and
    M&P entered into new agreements related to the operation of
    the APS.





    An administrative services agreement between RSM and M&P
    obligates RSM to provide M&P with administrative services,
    information technology, office space, non-professional staff,
    and other infrastructure in exchange for market rate fees from
    M&P. In addition, the agreement allows for professional
    staff to be
    sub-contracted
    between RSM and M&P at market rates.





    All partners of M&P, with the exception of M&P’s
    Managing Partner, are also managing directors employed by RSM.
    Approximately 84% of RSM’s managing directors are also
    partners in M&P. Certain other personnel are also employed
    by both M&P and RSM. M&P partners receive
    distributions of M&P’s earnings in their capacity as
    partners, as well as compensation from RSM in their capacity as
    managing directors. Distributions to M&P partners are based
    on the profitability of M&P and are not capped by the APS.
    Pursuant to the Governance and Operations Agreement, effective
    May 1, 2010, the aggregate compensation payable to RSM
    managing directors by RSM in any given year generally equals
    67 percent of the combined profits of M&P and RSM less
    any amounts paid in their capacity as M&P partners.
    Historically, RSM followed a similar practice, except that the
    compensation pool for managing directors was based on
    65 percent of combined profits, less amounts paid to
    M&P partners. In practice, this means that variability in
    the amounts paid to RSM managing directors under these contracts
    can cause variability in RSM’s operating results. RSM is
    not entitled to any profits or residual interests of M&P,
    nor is it obligated to fund losses or capital deficiencies of
    M&P. Managing directors of RSM have historically
    participated in stock-based compensation plans of H&R
    Block. Beginning in fiscal 2011, participation in those plans
    ceased and was replaced by a non-contributory, non-qualified
    defined contribution plan.





    See additional discussion in Item 8, note 17 to the
    consolidated financial statements.





    SEASONALITY OF
    BUSINESS –
    Revenues for this segment are largely seasonal in nature,
    with peak revenues occurring during January through April.





    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS –
    The tax and consulting business is highly competitive.
    The principal methods of competition are price, service and
    reputation for quality. There are a substantial number of
    accounting firms offering similar services at the international,
    national, regional and local levels. As our focus is on
    middle-market businesses, our principal competition is with
    national and regional accounting firms.





    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION –
    Many of the same federal and state regulations relating
    to tax preparers and the information concerning tax reform and
    tax preparer registration discussed previously in the Tax
    Services segment apply to the Business Services segment as well.
    RSM is not, and is not eligible to be, a licensed public
    accounting firm and takes measures to ensure that it does not
    provide any services that require a CPA license. In addition to
    tax and consulting services, RSM provides wealth management
    services and, through a separate subsidiary, capital market
    services. Accordingly, RSM is subject to state and federal
    regulations governing investment advisors and securities brokers
    and dealers.





    M&P and other accounting firms (collectively, the
    “Attest Firms”) operate in an alternative practice
    structure with RSM. Auditor independence rules of the SEC, the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and various
    states apply to the Attest Firms as public accounting firms. In
    applying its auditor independence rules, the SEC views RSM and
    its affiliates and the Attest Firms as a single entity and
    requires that RSM and its affiliates be independent of any SEC
    audit client of the Attest Firms. The SEC attributes any
    financial interest or business relationship that RSM or its
    affiliates has with a client of the Attest Firms as a financial
    interest or business relationship between the Attest Firms and
    the client, and applies its auditor independence rules
    accordingly.





    We and the Attest Firms have jointly developed and implemented
    policies, procedures and controls designed to ensure the Attest
    Firms’ independence is preserved in compliance with
    applicable SEC regulations and professional responsibilities.
    These policies, procedures and controls are designed to monitor
    and prevent violations of applicable independence rules and
    include, among other things: (1) informing our officers,
    directors and other members of senior management concerning
    auditor independence matters; (2) procedures for monitoring
    securities ownership; (3) communicating with SEC audit
    clients regarding the SEC’s interpretation and application
    of relevant independence rules and guidelines; and
    (4) requiring RSM employees to comply with the Attest
    Firms’ independence and relationship policies (including
    the Attest Firms’ independence compliance questionnaire
    procedures).





    See discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for
    additional information.





    6   H&R
    BLOCK 2011 Form 10K








Table of Contents




 











 


    SERVICE MARKS,
    TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS





    We have made a practice of selling our services and products
    under service marks and trademarks and of obtaining protection
    for these by all available means. Our service marks and
    trademarks are protected by registration in the U.S. and
    other countries where our services and products are marketed. We
    consider these service marks and trademarks, in the aggregate,
    to be of material importance to our business, particularly our
    business segments providing services and products under the
    “H&R Block” brand.





    We have no registered patents material to our business.


 











 


    EMPLOYEES





    We have approximately 7,900 regular full-time employees as of
    April 30, 2011. The highest number of persons we employed
    during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2011, including
    seasonal employees, was approximately 107,200.


 











 


    AVAILABILITY OF
    REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION





    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and all amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to
    the SEC are available, free of charge, through our website at
    www.hrblock.com as soon as reasonably practicable after
    such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the
    SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing
    reports, proxy and information statements and other information
    regarding issuers who file electronically with the SEC.





    Copies of the following corporate governance documents are
    posted on our website:







    
    
    



     
        § 

    
    The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of H&R
    Block, Inc.;








     
        § 

    
    The Amended and Restated Bylaws of H&R Block, Inc.;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Board of Directors Independence
    Standards;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Audit Committee Charter;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Governance and Nominating Committee
    Charter; and








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Compensation Committee Charter.








    If you would like a printed copy of any of these corporate
    governance documents, please send your request to the Office of
    the Secretary, H&R Block, Inc., One H&R Block Way,
    Kansas City, Missouri 64105.





    Information contained on our website does not constitute any
    part of this report.


 











 



    ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS





    An investment in our common stock involves risk, including the
    risk that the value of an investment may decline or that returns
    on that investment may fall below expectations. There are a
    number of significant factors which could cause actual
    conditions, events or results to differ materially from those
    described in forward-looking statements, many of which are
    beyond management’s control or its ability to accurately
    forecast or predict, or could adversely affect our operating
    results and the value of any investment in our stock.


 




    Our access to
    liquidity may be negatively impacted as disruptions in credit
    markets occur, if credit rating downgrades occur or if we fail
    to meet certain covenants. Funding costs may increase, leading
    to reduced earnings.





    We need liquidity to meet our off-season working capital
    requirements, to service debt obligations including refinancing
    of maturing obligations and for other related activities. Our
    access to and the cost of liquidity could be negatively impacted
    in the event of credit-rating downgrades or if we fail to meet
    existing debt covenants. In addition, events could occur which
    could increase our need for liquidity above current levels.





    If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, the cost of debt
    would likely increase and capital market access could decrease
    or become unavailable. Our unsecured committed line of credit
    (CLOC) is subject to various covenants, including a covenant
    requiring that we maintain minimum net worth equal to
    $650.0 million and a requirement that we reduce the
    aggregate outstanding principal amount of short-term debt (as
    defined) to $200.0 million or less for a minimum period of
    thirty consecutive days during the period from March 1 to June
    30 of each year. Violation of a covenant could impair our access
    to liquidity currently available through the CLOC. If current
    sources of liquidity were to become unavailable, we would need
    to obtain additional sources of funding, which may not be
    possible or may be available under less favorable terms.





    H&R
    BLOCK 2011
    Form 10K  7
    








Table of Contents







    We are subject to
    potential contingent liabilities related to the loan repurchase
    obligations of Sand Canyon Corporation, which may result in
    significant financial losses.





    Sand Canyon Corporation (SCC) remains exposed to losses relating
    to mortgage loans it previously originated. Mortgage loans
    originated by SCC were sold either as whole-loans to single
    third-party buyers or in the form of a securitization.





    In connection with the securitization and sale of mortgage
    loans, SCC made certain representations and warranties. These
    representations and warranties vary based on the nature of the
    transaction and the buyer’s requirements but generally
    pertain to the ownership of the loan, the property securing the
    loan and compliance with applicable laws and SCC underwriting
    guidelines. In the event that there is a breach of a
    representation and warranty and such breach materially and
    adversely affects the value of a mortgage loan, SCC may be
    obligated to repurchase a loan or otherwise indemnify certain
    parties for losses incurred as a result of loan liquidation. In
    some instances, H&R Block, Inc. was required to guarantee
    SCC’s obligations related to breaches of representations
    and warranties. These representations and warranties and
    corresponding repurchase obligations generally are not subject
    to stated limits or a stated term, but would be subject to
    statutes of limitations applicable to the contractual provisions.





    SCC records a liability for contingent losses relating to
    representation and warranty claims by estimating loan repurchase
    and indemnification obligations for both known claims and
    projections of future claims. To the extent that future valid
    claim volumes exceed current estimates, or the value of mortgage
    loans and residential home prices decline, future losses may be
    greater than these estimates and those differences may be
    significant. See Item 8, note 18 to the consolidated
    financial statements for additional information.


 




    SCC is subject to
    potential investigations and lawsuits stemming from its
    discontinued mortgage operations, which may result in
    significant financial losses.





    Although SCC terminated its mortgage loan origination activities
    and sold its loan servicing business during fiscal year 2008, it
    remains subject to investigations, claims and lawsuits
    pertaining to its loan origination and servicing activities
    prior to such termination and sale. The costs involved in
    defending against
    and/or
    resolving these investigations, claims and lawsuits may be
    substantial in some instances and the ultimate resulting
    liability is difficult to predict. In the current non-prime
    mortgage environment, the number and frequency of
    investigations, claims and lawsuits has increased over
    historical experience and is likely to continue at increased
    levels. In the event of unfavorable outcomes, the amount SCC may
    be required to pay in the discharge of liabilities or
    settlements could be substantial and, because SCC’s
    operating results are included in our consolidated financial
    statements, could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated results of operations.


 




    Failure to comply
    with laws and regulations that protect our customers’
    personal and financial information could result in significant
    fines, penalties and damages and could harm our brand and
    reputation.





    Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure of consumer
    financial information have drawn increased attention from
    federal and state governments. The IRS generally prohibits the
    use or disclosure by tax return preparers of taxpayers’
    information without the prior written consent of the taxpayer.
    In addition, other regulations require financial service
    providers to adopt and disclose consumer privacy policies and
    provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to
    “opt-out” of having personal information disclosed to
    unaffiliated third-parties for marketing purposes. Breaches of
    our clients’ privacy may occur. To the extent the measures
    we have taken prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may
    become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which
    could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm
    to our brand and reputation.





    In addition, changes in these federal and state regulatory
    requirements could result in more stringent requirements and
    could result in a need to change business practices, including
    how information is disclosed. Establishing systems and processes
    to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase
    costs and/or
    limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.


 




    The lines of
    business in which we operate face substantial litigation, and
    such litigation may damage our reputation or result in material
    liabilities and losses.





    We, and/or
    our subsidiaries, have been named, from time to time, as a
    defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations,
    class actions and other litigation arising in connection with
    our various business activities. Adverse outcomes related to
    litigation could result in substantial damages and could cause
    our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion can also result
    from our actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly
    damaging our reputation and could cause the market price of our
    stock to decline. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”
    for additional information.





    8   H&R
    BLOCK 2011 Form 10K








Table of Contents







    We are subject to
    operational risk and risks associated with our controls and
    procedures, which may result in incurring financial and
    reputational losses.





    There is a risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
    processes or systems, theft or fraud. These can occur in many
    forms including, among others, errors, business interruptions
    arising from natural disasters or other events, inadequate
    design and development of products and services, inappropriate
    behavior of or misconduct by our employees or those contracted
    to perform services for us, and vendors that do not perform in
    accordance with their contractual agreements. These events could
    potentially result in financial losses or other damages. We
    utilize internally developed processes, internal and external
    information and technological systems to manage our operations.
    We are exposed to risk of loss resulting from breaches in the
    security or other failures of these processes and systems. Our
    ability to recover or replace our major operational systems and
    processes could have a significant impact on our core business
    operations and increase our risk of loss due to disruptions of
    normal operating processes and procedures that may occur while
    re-establishing or implementing information and transaction
    systems and processes. As our businesses are seasonal, our
    systems must be capable of processing high volumes during peak
    season. Therefore, service interruptions resulting from system
    failures could negatively impact our ability to serve our
    customers, which in turn could damage our brand and reputation,
    or adversely impact our profitability. Additionally, due to the
    seasonality of our tax business, we employ a substantial amount
    of seasonal tax professionals on an annual basis. If we were
    unable to hire a sufficient amount of seasonal tax
    professionals, it could negatively impact our ability to serve
    customers, which in turn could damage our brand and reputation,
    or adversely impact our profitability.





    We also face the risk that the design of our controls and
    procedures may prove to be inadequate or that our controls and
    procedures may be circumvented, thereby causing delays in
    detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. It
    is possible that any lapses in the effective operations of
    controls and procedures could materially affect earnings or harm
    our reputation. Lapses or deficiencies in internal control over
    financial reporting could also be material to us.


 




    Our businesses
    may be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions,
    particularly if unemployment levels do not improve or continue
    to increase.





    The difficult economic conditions we are currently experiencing
    are frequently characterized by higher unemployment levels and
    declining consumer and business spending. Poor economic
    conditions may negatively affect demand and pricing for our
    services. Higher unemployment levels, especially within client
    segments we serve, may result in clients no longer being
    required to file tax returns, electing not to file tax returns,
    or clients seeking lower cost preparation and filing
    alternatives. Continued higher unemployment levels may
    negatively impact our ability to increase tax preparation
    clients.





    In addition to mortgage loans, we also extend secured and
    unsecured credit to other customers, including EAs to our tax
    clients. We may incur significant losses on credit we extend,
    which in turn could reduce our profitability.


 




    Economic
    conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job
    market may result in deterioration in credit quality of our loan
    portfolio primarily held by HRB Bank, and such deterioration
    could have a negative impact on our business and
    profitability.





    The overall credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment
    is impacted by the strength of the U.S. economy and local
    economic conditions, including residential housing prices.
    Economic trends that negatively affect housing prices and the
    job market could result in deterioration in credit quality of
    our mortgage loan portfolio and a decline in the value of
    associated collateral. Future interest rate resets could also
    lead to increased delinquencies in our mortgage loans held for
    investment. Trends in the residential mortgage loan market
    continue to reflect high loan delinquencies and lower collateral
    values. As a result, we recorded loan loss provisions totaling
    $35.6 million, $47.8 million and $63.9 million
    during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.





    Our loan portfolio is concentrated in the states of Florida,
    California, New York and Wisconsin, which represented 20%, 14%,
    17% and 8%, respectively, of our total mortgage loans held for
    investment at April 30, 2011. No other state held more than
    5% of our loan balances. If adverse trends in the residential
    mortgage loan market continue, particularly in geographic areas
    in which we own a greater concentration of mortgage loans, we
    could incur additional significant loan loss provisions.





    Mortgage loans purchased from SCC represent 62% of total loans
    held for investment at April 30, 2011. These loans have
    experienced higher delinquency rates than other loans in our
    portfolio, and may expose us to greater risk of credit loss.





    H&R
    BLOCK 2011
    Form 10K  9
    








Table of Contents






    TAX
    SERVICES


 




    Government
    initiatives that simplify tax return preparation or expedite
    refunds could reduce the need for our services as a third-party
    tax return preparer. In addition, changes in government
    regulations or processes regarding the preparation and filing of
    tax returns and funding of tax refunds may increase our
    operating costs or reduce our revenues.





    Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers
    such as us not only because of the level of complexity involved
    in the tax return preparation and filing process, but also
    because of paid tax return preparers’ ability to expedite
    refund proceeds under certain circumstances. From time to time,
    government officials propose measures seeking to simplify the
    preparation and filing of tax returns or to provide additional
    assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns
    or expediting refunds. During tax season 2011, the
    U.S. Department of the Treasury (the Treasury) introduced a
    prepaid debit card pilot program designed to facilitate the
    refund process. HRB Bank provides this service as well through
    its H&R Block Prepaid Emerald
    MasterCard®.

    Additionally, during tax season 2011, the IRS increased its
    emphasis on a process to allow taxpayers to allocate their
    refund to multiple accounts. The adoption or expansion of any
    measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation,
    expedite refunds or otherwise reduce the need for a third-party
    tax return preparer could reduce demand for our services,
    causing our revenues or results of operations to decline.





    Governmental regulations and processes affect how we provide
    services to our clients. Changes in these regulations and
    processes may require us to make corresponding changes to our
    client service systems and procedures. The degree and timing of
    changes in governmental regulations and processes may impair our
    ability to serve our clients in an effective and cost-efficient
    manner or reduce demand for our services, resulting in the loss
    of a significant number of clients, causing our revenues or
    results of operations to decline.





    Certain regulators have alleged that some of our competitors are
    lending tax preparation fees when they issue products similar to
    a RAC to their clients. An adverse ruling in this area could
    have a material impact on our offering of RACs resulting in the
    loss of a significant number of clients, causing our revenues or
    results of operations to decline.


 




    Increased
    competition for tax preparation clients in our retail offices
    and our online and software channels could adversely affect our
    current market share and profitability, and could limit our
    ability to grow our client base. Offers of free tax preparation
    services could adversely affect our revenues and
    profitability.





    We provide both retail and do-it-yourself tax preparation
    products and services and face substantial competition
    throughout our businesses. The retail tax services business is
    highly competitive. There are a substantial number of tax return
    preparation firms and accounting firms offering tax return
    preparation services. Many tax return preparation firms and many
    firms not otherwise in the tax return preparation business are
    involved in providing electronic filing and other related
    services to the public, and certain firms provide RALs and RACs.
    Commercial tax return preparers and electronic filers are highly
    competitive with regard to price and service, and many firms
    offer services that may include federal
    and/or state
    returns at no charge. Do-it-yourself tax preparation options
    include use of traditional paper forms, digital electronic forms
    and various forms of digital electronic assistance, including
    online and desktop software, both of which we offer. Our digital
    tax solutions businesses also compete with in-office tax
    preparation services and a number of online and software
    companies, primarily on the basis of price and functionality.





    Federal and certain state taxing authorities currently offer, or
    facilitate the offer of, tax return preparation and electronic
    filing options to taxpayers at no charge. In addition, many of
    our direct competitors offer certain free online tax preparation
    and electronic filing options. We have free offerings as well
    and prepared 767,000, 810,000 and 788,000 federal income tax
    returns in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, at no
    charge as part of the FFA. In addition, we have free online tax
    preparation offerings and also provided free preparation of
    Federal 1040EZ forms in fiscal year 2011. Government tax
    authorities and direct competitors may elect to expand free
    offerings in the future. Intense price competition, including
    offers of free service, could result in a loss of market share,
    lower revenues or lower margins.





    See tax returns prepared statistics included in Item 7,
    under “Tax Services.”


 




    The elimination
    of the IRS debt indicator has caused federal and state
    regulators to scrutinize the RAL underwriting practices of
    third-party financial institutions that provide RALs.





    In August 2010, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) announced
    that, as of the beginning of the 2011 tax season, it would no
    longer furnish the debt indicator (DI), to tax preparers or
    financial institutions. The DI is an underwriting tool that
    lenders have historically used when considering whether to loan
    money to taxpayers who applied for a RAL, which is a short term
    loan, secured by the taxpayer’s federal tax refund.





    10   H&R
    BLOCK 2011 Form 10K








Table of Contents





    In December 2010, HSBC terminated its contract with us to
    provide RALs in our retail tax offices based on restrictions
    placed on HSBC by its regulators due to the DI no longer being
    available. As a result, RALs were not offered in our retail tax
    offices in the 2011 tax season. Subsequently, two other banks
    offering RALs during the 2011 tax season through our competitors
    announced that due to regulatory concerns they will not be
    offering RALs next tax season. Additionally, a third bank
    offering RALs during the 2011 tax season through our competitors
    announced that it was requesting an administrative hearing
    regarding a notice it had received from its regulator that its
    practice of originating RALs without the DI is “unsafe and
    unsound” and has recently filed a lawsuit in federal court
    against its regulator. Based on these developments and the
    overall limited amount of banks that offer RALs, there can be no
    assurances as to the availability of RALs in our retail tax
    offices in the future.





    Termination of the contract with HSBC and our inability to
    secure a RAL originator in the future could continue to have
    adverse effects on our operating results, including declines in
    tax returns prepared as a result of clients seeking alternate
    preparers who may be able to offers RALs, to the extent prior
    RAL clients do not purchase a RAC or change their refund
    disbursement elections. A decline in clients could have other
    adverse impacts, including increased credit losses on loan
    balances with those clients.


 




    We are subject to
    extensive government regulation, including banking rules and
    regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable banking laws,
    rules and regulations, we could be subject to disciplinary
    actions, damages, penalties or restrictions that could
    significantly harm our business.





    The OTS can, among other things, censure, fine, issue
    cease-and-desist
    orders or suspend or expel a bank or any of its officers or
    employees with respect to banking activities. Similarly, the
    attorneys general of each state could bring legal action on
    behalf of the citizens of the various states to ensure
    compliance with local laws.





    HRB Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements
    administered by the OTS. Failure to meet minimum capital
    requirements may trigger actions by regulators that, if
    undertaken, could have a direct material effect on HRB Bank, and
    potentially us, as HRB Bank’s holding company. HRB Bank
    must meet specific capital guidelines involving quantitative
    measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet
    items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. A
    bank’s capital amounts and classification are also subject
    to qualitative judgments by the regulators about the strength of
    components of its capital, risk-weightings of assets,
    off-balance sheet transactions and other factors. Quantitative
    measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy
    require HRB Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of
    tangible equity, total risk-based capital and Tier 1
    capital. In addition to these minimum ratio requirements, HRB
    Bank is required to continually maintain a 12.0% minimum
    leverage ratio.





    In addition, the OTS may deem certain products offered by HRB
    Bank, including EAs, to be “unsafe and unsound” and
    thus require us to discontinue offering such products. To the
    extent such products are instrumental in attracting clients to
    our offices for tax preparation services, we could experience a
    significant loss of clients should such products be
    discontinued. This could cause our revenues or profitability to
    decline. See Item 8, note 20 to the consolidated
    financial statements for additional discussion of regulatory
    capital requirements and classifications.


 




    Recent
    legislative and regulatory reforms may have a significant impact
    on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.





    In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
    Protection Act (the Reform Act) was signed into law, which
    contains a comprehensive set of provisions designed to govern
    the practices and oversight of financial institutions and other
    participants in the financial markets.





    The full impact of the Reform Act is difficult to assess because
    many provisions require federal agencies to adopt implementing
    regulations. In addition, the Reform Act mandates multiple
    studies, which could result in additional legislative or
    regulatory action. The Reform Act, as well as other legislative
    and regulatory changes, could have a significant impact on us
    and on our subsidiary, HRB Bank, by, for example, requiring us
    to change our business practices, requiring us to meet more
    stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements,
    limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, imposing
    additional costs on us, limiting fees we can charge for
    services, impacting the value of our assets, or otherwise
    adversely affecting our businesses. Specific provisions of the
    Reform Act include:







    
    
    



     
        § 

    
    changes to the thrift supervisory structure as the
    responsibility and authority of the OTS moves to the OCC in July
    2011;








     
        § 

    
    changes which may require the Company, as a thrift holding
    company, to meet regulatory capital, liquidity, leverage or
    other standards;








     
        § 

    
    regulation of interchange fees charged by payment card issuers
    for transactions in which a person uses a debit or general-use
    prepaid card, and enforcement of a new statutory requirement
    that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost
    of the transaction to the issuer; and








    H&R
    BLOCK 2011
    Form 10K  11
    








Table of Contents









    
    
    



     
        § 

    
    establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with
    broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations.








    The effect of the Reform Act on our business and operations
    could be significant, depending upon final implementation of
    regulations, the actions of our competitors and the behavior of
    other marketplace participants. In addition, we may be required
    to invest significant management time and resources to address
    the various provisions of the Reform Act and the numerous
    regulations that are required to be issued under it. The Reform
    Act and any related legislation or regulations could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    BUSINESS
    SERVICES


 




    RSM receives a
    significant portion of its revenues from clients that are also
    clients of the Attest Firms. A termination of the alternative
    practice structure between RSM and the Attest Firms could result
    in a material loss of revenue to RSM and an impairment of our
    investment in RSM.





    Under the alternative practice structure, RSM and the Attest
    Firms market their services and provide services to a
    significant number of common clients under a common
    brand – McGladrey. RSM also provides operational and
    administrative support services to the Attest Firms, including
    information technology, office space, non-professional staff,
    and other infrastructure in exchange for market rate fees from
    M&P. If the RSM/Attest Firms relationship under the
    alternative practice structure were terminated, RSM could lose
    key employees and clients. In addition, RSM may not be able to
    recoup its costs associated with the infrastructure used to
    provide the operational and administrative support services to
    the Attest Firms. This in turn could result in reduced revenue,
    increased costs and reduced earnings and, if sufficiently
    significant, impairment of our investment in RSM.


 




    The RSM
    alternative practice structure involves relationships with
    Attest Firms that are subject to regulatory restrictions and
    other constraints. Failure to comply with these restrictions, or
    operational difficulties or litigation involving the Attest
    Firms, could damage our brand reputation, lead to reduced
    earnings and impair our investment in RSM.





    RSM’s relationship with the Attest Firms requires
    compliance with applicable regulations related to the practice
    of public accounting and auditor independence. Many of
    RSM’s clients are also clients of the Attest Firms. In
    addition, the relationship with the Attest Firms and the common
    brand closely links RSM and the Attest Firms. If the Attest
    Firms encounter regulatory or independence issues pertaining to
    the alternative practice structure or if significant litigation
    arose involving the Attest Firms or their services, such
    developments could have an adverse effect on our reputation and
    the mutual benefits of our relationship. In addition, a
    significant judgment or settlement of a claim against an Attest
    Firm could (1) impair the Attest Firm’s, particularly
    M&P’s, ability to meet its payment obligations under
    various service arrangements with RSM, (2) impair the
    profitability of the APS, (3) impact RSM’s ability to
    attract and retain clients and quality professionals,
    (4) have a significant indirect adverse effect on RSM, as
    the Attest Firm partners are also RSM employees and
    (5) divert significant management attention. This, in turn,
    could result in reduced revenue and earnings and, if
    significant, impairment of our investment in RSM.


 



 



    ITEM 1B