Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for
    additional information.





    H&R
    BLOCK 2010
    Form 10K  5
    








Table of Contents




 











 


    BUSINESS
    SERVICES





    GENERAL – Our
    Business Services segment offers tax and consulting services,
    wealth management and capital markets services to middle-market
    companies. Segment revenues constituted 22.2% of our
    consolidated revenues from continuing operations for fiscal year
    2010, 22.0% for fiscal year 2009 and 23.0% for fiscal year
    2008.  





    This segment consists primarily of RSM, which provides tax and
    consulting services in 88 cities and 26 states and
    offers services in 20 of the 25 top U.S. markets.





    From time to time, we have acquired related businesses and may
    continue to do so if future conditions warrant and satisfactory
    terms can be negotiated.





    ALTERNATIVE
    PRACTICE STRUCTURE WITH McGLADREY & PULLEN
    LLP – M&P is a limited liability
    partnership, owned 100% by certified public accountants (CPAs),
    which provides attest services to middle-market clients.





    Under state accountancy regulations, a firm cannot provide
    attest services unless it is majority-owned and controlled by
    licensed CPAs. As such, RSM is unable to provide attest
    services. Since 1999, RSM and M&P have operated in what is
    known as an “alternative practice structure” (APS).
    Through the APS, RSM and M&P are able to offer clients a
    full-range of attest and non-attest services in full compliance
    with applicable accountancy regulations.





    An administrative services agreement between RSM and M&P
    obligates RSM to provide M&P with administrative services,
    information technology, office space, non-professional staff,
    and other infrastructure in exchange for market rate fees from
    M&P.





    On July 21, 2009, M&P provided 210 days notice of
    its intent to terminate the administrative services agreement,
    resulting in termination of the APS unless revoked or modified
    prior to the expiration of the notice period. As a protective
    measure, on September 15, 2009, RSM also provided notice of
    its intent to terminate the administrative services agreement.
    Effective February 3, 2010, RSM and M&P entered into
    new agreements related to the operation of the APS, withdrawing
    their prior notices of termination.





    Pursuant to a Governance and Operations Agreement effective
    February 3, 2010, RSM and M&P agreed to be bound by
    the final award of an arbitration panel, dated as of
    November 24, 2009, regarding the applicability and
    enforceability of certain restrictive covenants between the
    parties. In the event the APS were ever terminated, M&P
    would generally be prohibited as a result of these restrictive
    covenants, from (1) engaging in businesses in which RSM
    operates in for 17 months, (2) soliciting any business
    with clients or potential clients of RSM or any of its
    subsidiaries or affiliates for 29 months, and
    (3) soliciting employees of RSM or any of its subsidiaries
    or affiliates for 24 months.





    Although not required by the Governance and Operations
    Agreement, all partners of M&P, with the exception of
    M&P’s Managing Partner, are also managing directors
    employed by RSM. Approximately 86% of RSM’s managing
    directors are also partners in M&P. Certain other personnel
    are also employed by both M&P and RSM. M&P partners
    receive distributions from M&P in their capacity as
    partners, as well as compensation from RSM in their capacity as
    managing directors. Distributions to M&P partners are based
    on the profitability of M&P and are not capped by this
    arrangement. Pursuant to the Governance and Operations
    Agreement, effective May 1, 2010, the aggregate
    compensation payable to RSM managing directors by RSM in any
    given year shall generally equal 67 percent of the combined
    profits of M&P and RSM less any amounts paid in their
    capacity as M&P partners. RSM followed a similar practice
    historically, except that the compensation pool for managing
    directors was based on 65 percent of combined profits. In
    practice, this means that variability in the amounts paid to RSM
    managing directors under these contracts can cause variability
    in RSM’s operating results. RSM is not entitled to any
    profits or residual interests of M&P, nor is it obligated
    to fund losses or capital deficiencies of M&P. Managing
    directors of RSM have historically participated in stock-based
    compensation plans of H&R Block. Beginning in fiscal 2011,
    participation in those plans will cease and be replaced by a
    non-qualified retirement plan.





    See additional discussion in Item 8, note 17 to the
    consolidated financial statements.





    SEASONALITY OF
    BUSINESS – Revenues
    for this segment are largely seasonal in nature, with peak
    revenues occurring during January through April.





    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS – The
    tax and consulting business is highly competitive. The principal
    methods of competition are price, service and reputation for
    quality. There are a substantial number of accounting firms
    offering similar services at the international, national,
    regional and local levels. As our focus is on middle-market
    businesses, our principal competition is with national and
    regional accounting firms.





    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION – Many
    of the same federal and state regulations relating to tax
    preparers and the information concerning tax reform and tax
    preparer registration discussed previously in Tax Services apply
    to the Business Services segment as well. RSM is not, and is not
    eligible to be, a licensed public accounting firm and takes
    measures to ensure that it does not provide services prohibited
    by regulation, such as attest services. RSM, through






    6   H&R
    BLOCK 2010 Form 10K








Table of Contents





    its subsidiaries, provides capital
    markets and wealth management services and is subject to state
    and federal regulations governing investment advisors and
    securities brokers and dealers.
    





    M&P and other accounting firms (collectively, the
    “Attest Firms”) operate in an alternative practice
    structure with RSM. Auditor independence rules of the SEC, the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and various
    states apply to the Attest Firms as public accounting firms. In
    applying its auditor independence rules, the SEC views us and
    the Attest Firms as a single entity and requires that the SEC
    independence rules for the Attest Firms apply to us and requires
    us to be independent of any SEC audit client of the Attest
    Firms. The SEC regards any financial interest or prohibited
    business relationship we have with a client of the Attest Firms
    as a financial interest or prohibited business relationship
    between the Attest Firms and the client for purposes of applying
    its auditor independence rules.





    We and the Attest Firms have jointly developed and implemented
    policies, procedures and controls designed to ensure the Attest
    Firms’ independence as audit firms complying with
    applicable SEC regulations and professional responsibilities.
    These policies, procedures and controls are designed to monitor
    and prevent violations of applicable independence rules and
    include, among other things: (1) informing our officers,
    directors and other members of senior management concerning
    auditor independence matters; (2) procedures for monitoring
    securities ownership; (3) communicating with SEC audit
    clients regarding the SEC’s interpretation and application
    of relevant independence rules and guidelines; and
    (4) requiring RSM employees to comply with the Attest
    Firms’ independence and relationship policies (including
    the Attest Firms’ independence compliance questionnaire
    procedures).





    See discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for
    additional information.


 











 


    SERVICE MARKS,
    TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS





    We have made a practice of selling our services and products
    under service marks and trademarks and of obtaining protection
    for these by all available means. Our service marks and
    trademarks are protected by registration in the U.S. and
    other countries where our services and products are marketed. We
    consider these service marks and trademarks, in the aggregate,
    to be of material importance to our business, particularly our
    business segments providing services and products under the
    “H&R Block” brand.





    We have no registered patents material to our business.


 











 


    EMPLOYEES





    We have approximately 7,700 regular full-time employees as of
    April 30, 2010. The highest number of persons we employed
    during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2010, including
    seasonal employees, was approximately 110,400.


 











 


    AVAILABILITY OF
    REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION





    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and all amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to
    the SEC are available, free of charge, through our website at
    www.hrblock.com as soon as reasonably practicable after
    such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the
    SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing
    reports, proxy and information statements and other information
    regarding issuers who file electronically with the SEC.





    Copies of the following corporate governance documents are
    posted on our website:







    
    
    



     
        § 

    
    The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of H&R
    Block, Inc.;








     
        § 

    
    The Amended and Restated Bylaws of H&R Block, Inc.;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Board of Directors Independence
    Standards;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Audit Committee Charter;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Governance and Nominating Committee
    Charter; and








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Compensation Committee Charter.








    If you would like a printed copy of any of these corporate
    governance documents, please send your request to the Office of
    the Secretary, H&R Block, Inc., One H&R Block Way,
    Kansas City, Missouri 64105.





    Information contained on our website does not constitute any
    part of this report.





    H&R
    BLOCK 2010
    Form 10K  7
    








Table of Contents




 











 



    ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS





    An investment in our common stock involves risk, including the
    risk that the value of an investment may decline or that returns
    on that investment may fall below expectations. There are a
    number of significant factors which could cause actual
    conditions, events or results to differ materially from those
    described in forward-looking statements, many of which are
    beyond management’s control or its ability to accurately
    forecast or predict, or could adversely affect our operating
    results and the value of any investment in our stock. Other
    factors besides those listed below or discussed in reports filed
    with the SEC could adversely affect our results.


 




    Our businesses
    may be adversely affected by economic conditions generally,
    including the current economic recession and lower employment
    levels.





    Due in part to poor economic conditions and high unemployment,
    U.S. tax returns prepared by us declined 1.0 million
    and 0.7 million in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively.





    An economic recession as we are currently experiencing, is
    frequently characterized by lower employment and declining
    consumer and business spending. Poor economic conditions may
    negatively affect demand and pricing for our services. Lower
    employment levels, especially within client segments we serve,
    may result in clients no longer being required to file tax
    returns, electing not to file tax returns, or clients seeking
    lower cost preparation and filing alternatives. Continued lower
    employment levels may negatively impact our ability to increase
    tax preparation clients.





    In addition, the downturn in the residential housing market and
    increase in mortgage defaults has negatively impacted our
    operating results and may continue to do so. An economic
    recession will likely reduce the ability of our borrowers to
    repay mortgage loans, and declining home values could increase
    the severity of loss we may incur in the event of default. In
    addition to mortgage loans, we also extend secured and unsecured
    credit to other customers, including RALs and Emerald Advance
    lines of credit to our tax clients. We may incur significant
    losses on credit we extend, which in turn could reduce our
    profitability.


 




    Our access to
    liquidity may be negatively impacted if disruptions in credit
    markets occur, if credit rating downgrades occur or if we fail
    to meet certain covenants. Funding costs may increase, leading
    to reduced earnings.





    We need liquidity to meet our off-season working capital
    requirements, to service debt obligations including refinancing
    of maturing obligations, to purchase RAL participations and for
    other related activities. Although we believe we have sufficient
    liquidity to meet our current needs, our access to and the cost
    of liquidity could be negatively impacted in the event of
    credit-rating downgrades or if we fail to meet existing debt
    covenants. In addition, events could occur which could increase
    our need for liquidity above current levels.





    If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, the cost of debt
    would likely increase and capital market access could decrease
    or become unavailable. Our CLOC is subject to various covenants,
    including a covenant requiring that we maintain minimum net
    worth equal to $650.0 million and a requirement that we
    reduce the aggregate outstanding principal amount of short-term
    debt (as defined) to $200.0 million or less for a minimum
    period of thirty consecutive days during the period from March 1
    to June 30 of each year. Violation of a covenant could impair
    our access to liquidity currently available through the CLOC. If
    current sources of liquidity were to become unavailable, we
    would need to obtain additional sources of funding, which may
    not be possible or may be available under less favorable terms.


 




    The lines of
    business in which we operate face substantial litigation, and
    such litigation may damage our reputation or result in material
    liabilities and losses.





    We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various
    legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other
    litigation arising in connection with our various business
    activities. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result
    in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline.
    Negative public opinion can also result from our actual or
    alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation
    and could cause the market price of our stock to decline. See
    Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for additional
    information.


 




    Failure to comply
    with laws and regulations that protect our customers’
    personal and financial information could result in significant
    fines, penalties and damages and could harm our brand and
    reputation.





    Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure of consumer
    financial information have drawn increased attention from
    federal and state governments. The IRS generally prohibits the
    use or disclosure by tax return preparers of taxpayers’
    information without the prior written consent of the taxpayer.
    In addition, other regulations require financial service
    providers to adopt and disclose consumer privacy policies and
    provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to
    “opt-out” of having personal information disclosed to
    unaffiliated third-parties for






    8   H&R
    BLOCK 2010 Form 10K








Table of Contents





    marketing purposes. Although we have established security
    procedures to protect against identity theft, breaches of our
    clients’ privacy may occur. To the extent the measures we
    have taken prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become
    subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could
    result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to
    our brand and reputation.





    In addition, changes in these federal and state regulatory
    requirements could result in more stringent requirements and
    could result in a need to change business practices, including
    how information is disclosed. Establishing systems and processes
    to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase
    costs and/or
    limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.


 




    We are subject to
    operational risk and risks associated with our controls and
    procedures, which may result in incurring financial and
    reputational losses.





    There is a risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
    processes or systems, theft or fraud. These can occur in many
    forms including, among others, errors, business interruptions
    arising from natural disasters or other events, inadequate
    design and development of products and services, inappropriate
    behavior of or misconduct by our employees or those contracted
    to perform services for us, and vendors that do not perform in
    accordance with their contractual agreements. These events could
    potentially result in financial losses or other damages. We
    utilize internally developed processes, internal and external
    information and technological systems to manage our operations.
    We are exposed to risk of loss resulting from breaches in the
    security or other failures of these processes and systems. Our
    ability to recover or replace our major operational systems and
    processes could have a significant impact on our core business
    operations and increase our risk of loss due to disruptions of
    normal operating processes and procedures that may occur while
    re-establishing or implementing information and transaction
    systems and processes. As our businesses are seasonal, our
    systems must be capable of processing high volumes during peak
    season. Therefore, service interruptions resulting from system
    failures could negatively impact our ability to serve our
    customers, which in turn could damage our brand and reputation,
    or adversely impact our profitability.





    We also face the risk that the design of our controls and
    procedures may prove to be inadequate or that our controls and
    procedures may be circumvented, thereby causing delays in
    detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. It
    is possible that any lapses in the effective operations of
    controls and procedures could materially affect earnings or harm
    our reputation. Lapses or deficiencies in internal control over
    financial reporting could also be material to us.


 



    TAX
    SERVICES


 




    Government
    initiatives that simplify tax return preparation could reduce
    the need for our services as a third-party tax return preparer.
    In addition, changes in government regulations or processes
    regarding the preparation and filing of tax returns may increase
    our operating costs or reduce our revenues.





    Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers
    such as us because of the level of complexity involved in the
    tax return preparation and filing process. From time to time,
    government officials propose measures seeking to simplify the
    preparation and filing of tax returns or to provide additional
    assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax
    returns. The adoption of any measures that significantly
    simplify tax return preparation or otherwise reduce the need for
    a third-party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our
    services, causing our revenues or results of operations to
    decline.





    Governmental regulations and processes affect how we provide
    services to our clients. Changes in these regulations and
    processes may require us to make corresponding changes to our
    client service systems and procedures. The degree and timing of
    changes in governmental regulations and processes may impair our
    ability to serve our clients in an effective and cost-efficient
    manner or reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues
    or results of operations to decline.


 




    Federal and state
    legislators and regulators have increasingly taken an active
    role in regulating financial products such as RALs. In addition,
    we are dependent on third-party financial institutions to
    provide certain of these financial products to our clients and
    these institutions could cease or significantly reduce the
    offering of such products. These trends or potential
    developments could impede our ability to facilitate these
    financial products, reduce demand for our services and harm our
    business.





    Changes in government regulation related to RALs could prohibit
    or limit the offering of RALs to our clients or our ability to
    purchase participation interests. In addition, third-party
    financial institutions currently originating RALs and similar
    products could decide to cease or significantly limit such
    offerings and related collection practices. Changes in IRS
    practices, including limitations on the availability of the IRS
    debt indicator, could impair our ability to limit our bad debt
    exposure. Changes in any of these, as well as possible
    litigation related to financial products offered through our
    distribution channels, may cause our revenues or profitability
    to decline. See discussion of RAL litigation in Item 3,
    “Legal Proceedings.” In addition to the loss of
    revenues and income directly attributable to






    H&R
    BLOCK 2010
    Form 10K  9
    








Table of Contents





    the RAL program, the inability to
    offer RALs could indirectly result in the loss of significant
    retail tax clients and associated tax preparation revenues,
    unless we were able to take mitigating actions.
    





    RAL participation and related revenues totaled
    $146.2 million for the year ended April 30, 2010,
    representing 3.8% of consolidated revenues and contributed
    $89.5 million to the Tax Services segment’s pretax
    results. We prepared 20.1 million U.S. returns in
    fiscal year 2010, and of those clients 16.8% also purchased a
    RAL.


 




    Increased
    competition for tax preparation clients in our retail offices
    and our online and software channels could adversely affect our
    current market share and profitability, and could limit our
    ability to grow our client base. Offers of free tax preparation
    services could adversely affect our revenues and
    profitability.





    The retail tax services business is highly competitive. There
    are a substantial number of tax return preparation firms and
    accounting firms offering tax return preparation services. Many
    tax return preparation firms and many firms not otherwise in the
    tax return preparation business are involved in providing
    electronic filing, RALs and other related services to the
    public. Commercial tax return preparers and electronic filers
    are highly competitive with regard to price and service. Our
    digital tax solutions businesses also compete with in-office tax
    preparation services and a number of online and software
    companies, primarily on the basis of price and functionality.





    Federal and certain state taxing authorities currently offer, or
    facilitate the offer of, tax return preparation and electronic
    filing options to taxpayers at no charge. In addition, many of
    our direct competitors offer certain free online tax preparation
    and electronic filing options. We have free offerings as well
    and prepared approximately 810,000 federal income tax returns in
    fiscal year 2010 and 788,000 in fiscal year 2009 at no charge as
    part of the FFA. Government tax authorities and direct
    competitors may elect to expand free offerings in the future.
    Intense price competition, including offers of free service,
    could result in a loss of market share, lower revenues or lower
    margins.





    See tax returns prepared statistics included in Item 7,
    under “Tax Services.”


 




    We are subject to
    extensive government regulation, including banking rules and
    regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable banking laws,
    rules and regulations, we could be subject to disciplinary
    actions, damages, penalties or restrictions that could
    significantly harm our business.





    The OTS can, among other things, censure, fine, issue
    cease-and-desist
    orders or suspend or expel a bank or any of its officers or
    employees with respect to banking activities. Similarly, the
    attorneys general of each state could bring legal action on
    behalf of the citizens of the various states to ensure
    compliance with local laws.





    HRB Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements
    administered by the OTS. Failure to meet minimum capital
    requirements may trigger actions by regulators that, if
    undertaken, could have a direct material effect on HRB Bank. HRB
    Bank must meet specific capital guidelines involving
    quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain
    off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory
    accounting practices. A bank’s capital amounts and
    classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the
    regulators about the strength of components of its capital,
    risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions and
    other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation
    to ensure capital adequacy require HRB Bank to maintain minimum
    amounts and ratios of tangible equity, total risk-based capital
    and Tier 1 capital. In addition to these minimum ratio
    requirements, HRB Bank is required to continually maintain a
    12.0% minimum leverage ratio.





    See Item 8, note 19 to the consolidated financial
    statements for additional discussion of regulatory capital
    requirements and classifications.


 




    Significant
    changes have been proposed relating to the regulation of
    financial institutions. Although the ultimate impact of pending
    proposals is uncertain at this time, increased regulation could
    impact operating activities of our bank.





    Various legislative proposals have been made regarding changes
    in the regulation of financial institutions, including the
    Financial Regulatory Reform Plan. Prior proposals included
    legislation which would have empowered courts to modify the
    terms of mortgage loans including a reduction in the principal
    amount to reflect lower underlying property values.





    Future changes in regulation could increase compliance
    requirements and operating costs of HRB Bank, and could
    potentially limit operating activities of the bank. Should
    proposals be enacted into law allowing government modification
    of mortgage loans, we could report losses on mortgage loans in
    excess of current levels. The availability of principal
    reductions or other mortgage loan modifications could make
    bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers,
    leading to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults.





    10   H&R
    BLOCK 2010 Form 10K








Table of Contents






    BUSINESS
    SERVICES


 




    The RSM
    alternative practice structure involves relationships with
    Attest Firms that are subject to regulatory restrictions and
    other constraints. Failure to comply with these restrictions, or
    operational difficulties involving the Attest Firms, could
    damage our brand reputation, lead to reduced earnings and impair
    our investment in RSM.





    RSM’s relationship with the Attest Firms requires
    compliance with applicable regulations regarding the practice of
    public accounting and auditor independence rules and
    requirements. Many of RSM’s clients are also clients of the
    Attest Firms. In addition, the relationship with the Attest
    Firms closely links our RSM McGladrey brand with the Attest
    Firms. If the Attest Firms were to encounter regulatory or
    independence issues pertaining to the alternative practice
    structure or if significant litigation arose involving the
    Attest Firms or their services, such developments could have an
    adverse effect on our brand reputation and our ability to
    realize the mutual benefits of our relationship. In addition, a
    significant judgment or settlement of a claim against an Attest
    Firm could (1) impair the Attest Firm’s, particularly
    M&P’s, ability to meet its payment obligations under
    various service arrangements with RSM, (2) impair the
    profitability of the APS, (3) impact RSM’s ability to
    attract and retain clients and quality professionals,
    (4) have a significant indirect adverse effect on RSM, as
    the Attest Firm partners are also RSM employees and
    (5) result in significant management distraction. This in
    turn could result in reduced revenue and earnings and, if
    sufficiently significant, impairment of our investment in RSM.


 




    RSM receives a
    significant portion of its revenues from clients that are also
    clients of the Attest Firms. A termination of the alternative
    practice structure between RSM and the Attest Firms could result
    in a material loss of revenue to RSM and an impairment of our
    investment in RSM.





    Under the alternative practice structure, RSM and the Attest
    Firms market their services and provide services to a
    significant number of common clients. RSM also provides
    operational and administrative support services to the Attest
    Firms, including information technology, office space,
    non-professional staff, and other infrastructure in exchange for
    market rate fees from M&P. If the RSM/Attest Firms
    relationship under the alternative practice structure were to be
    terminated, RSM could lose key employees and clients. In
    addition, RSM may not be able to recoup its costs associated
    with the infrastructure used to provide the operational and
    administrative support services to the Attest Firms. This in
    turn could result in reduced revenue, increased costs and
    reduced earnings and, if sufficiently significant, impairment of
    our investment in RSM.


 



    OTHER


 




    Economic
    conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job
    market may result in deterioration in credit quality of our loan
    portfolio, and such deterioration could have a negative impact
    on our business and profitability.





    The overall credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment
    is impacted by the strength of the U.S. economy and local
    economic conditions, including residential housing prices.
    Economic trends that negatively affect housing prices and the
    job market could result in deterioration in credit quality of
    our mortgage loan portfolio and a decline in the value of
    associated collateral. Future interest rate resets could also
    lead to increased delinquencies in our mortgage loans held for
    investment. Recent trends in the residential mortgage loan
    market reflect an increase in loan delinquencies and declining
    collateral values. As a result of similar trends in our loan
    portfolio, we recorded loan loss provisions totaling
    $47.8 million and $63.9 million during fiscal years
    2010 and 2009, respectively.





    Our loan portfolio is concentrated in the states of Florida,
    California, New York and Wisconsin, which represented 20%, 16%,
    15% and 8%, respectively, of our total mortgage loans held for
    investment at April 30, 2010. No other state held more than
    5% of our loan balances. If adverse trends in the residential
    mortgage loan market continue, particularly in geographic areas
    in which we own a greater concentration of mortgage loans, we
    could incur additional significant loan loss provisions.





    Mortgage loans purchased from Sand Canyon Corporation (SCC)
    represent approximately 64% of total loans held for investment
    at April 30, 2010. These loans have experienced higher
    delinquency rates than other loans in our portfolio, and may
    expose us to greater risk of credit loss.


 




    SCC is subject to
    potential litigation stemming from discontinued mortgage
    operations, which may result in significant financial
    losses.





    Although SCC terminated its mortgage loan origination activities
    and sold its loan servicing business during fiscal year 2008, it
    remains subject to investigations, claims and lawsuits
    pertaining to its loan origination and servicing activities
    prior to such termination and sale. The costs involved in
    defending against
    and/or
    resolving these investigations, claims and lawsuits may be
    substantial in some instances and the ultimate resulting
    liability is difficult to predict. In the current non-prime
    mortgage environment, the number and frequency of
    investigations,






    H&R
    BLOCK 2010
    Form 10K  11
    








Table of Contents





    claims and lawsuits has increased over historical experience and
    is likely to continue at increased levels. In the event of
    unfavorable outcomes, the amount SCC may be required to pay in
    the discharge of liabilities or settlements could be substantial
    and, because SCC’s operating results are included in our
    consolidated financial statements, could have a material adverse
    impact on our consolidated results of operations.


 




    We are subject to
    potential contingent liabilities related to loan repurchase
    obligations, which may result in significant financial
    losses.





    SCC remains exposed to losses relating to mortgage loans it
    previously originated. Non-prime mortgage loans originated by
    SCC were sold either as whole-loan sales to single third-party
    buyers or in the form of a securitization.





    SCC entered into indemnification agreements with third-parties
    relating to the mortgage loans transferred through such
    whole-loan sales or securitizations. In some instances, H&R
    Block, Inc. was required to guarantee SCC’s obligations.
    Obligations to repurchase loans or indemnify a third-party up to
    an agreed upon amount may arise from breaches of various
    representations and warranties SCC made under such
    indemnification agreements. These representations and warranties
    vary based on the nature of the transaction and the buyer’s
    requirements but generally pertain to the ownership of the loan,
    the property securing the loan and compliance with applicable
    laws and SCC underwriting guidelines. These representations and
    warranties and corresponding repurchase obligations generally
    are not subject to stated limits or a stated term.





    SCC records a liability for contingent losses relating to
    representation and warranty claims by estimating loan repurchase
    volumes and indemnification obligations for both known claims
    and projections of expected future claims. To the extent that
    future valid claim volumes exceed current estimates, or the
    value of mortgage loans and residential home prices decline,
    future losses may be greater than these estimates and those
    differences may be significant.


 



 



    ITEM 1B