ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
In this report, and from time to time throughout the year, we share our expectations for the
Company’s future performance. The following explains the critical risk factors impacting our
business and reasons actual results may differ from our expectations. This discussion does not
intend to be a comprehensive list and there may be other risks and factors that may have an effect
on our business.



     LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL – We use capital primarily to fund working capital requirements, pay
dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and acquire businesses. We are dependent on the
use of our off-balance sheet arrangements to fund our daily non-prime originations and the
secondary market to securitize and sell mortgage loans and residual interests. See Item 7, under
“Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements.” We are also dependent on commercial paper issuances
and/or bank lines to fund RAL participations and seasonal working capital needs. A disruption in
such markets could adversely affect our access to these funds. To meet our future financing needs,
we may issue additional debt or equity securities.



     LITIGATION – We are involved in lawsuits in the normal course of our business related to
RALs, our Peace of Mind guarantee program, electronic filing of tax returns, Express IRAs, losses
incurred by customers in their investment accounts, mortgage lending activities and other matters.
Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could adversely
affect our results of operations. Negative public opinion can also result from our actual or
alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation and adversely affecting the market
price of our stock. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for additional information.



     PRIVACY OF CLIENT INFORMATION – We manage highly sensitive client information in all of our
operating segments, which is regulated by law. Problems with the safeguarding and proper use of
this information could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could adversely
affect our reputation and results of operations.



     INTERNAL CONTROL CERTIFICATION – We have documented and tested our internal control
procedures in accordance with various SEC rules governing Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX 404). SOX 404 requires us to assess the effectiveness of our internal
controls over financial reporting annually, and obtain an opinion on the effectiveness of this
internal control from our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. We may




14




 






encounter problems
or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements and the
receipt of an attestation from our independent auditors. Additionally, management’s assessment of
our internal controls over financial reporting may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed
in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for
investors. Should we, or our independent auditors, determine in future periods that we have a
material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, our results of operations or
financial condition may be adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline.



     OPERATIONAL RISK – There is a risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or
systems, theft or fraud. These can occur in many forms including, among others, errors, business
interruptions, inappropriate behavior of or misconduct by our employees or those contracted to
perform services for us, and vendors that do not perform in accordance with their contractual
agreements. These events can potentially result in financial losses or other damages. We rely on
internal and external information and technological systems to manage our operations and are
exposed to risk of loss resulting from breaches in the security, or other failures of these
systems. Replacement of our major operational systems could have a significant impact on our
ability to conduct our core business operations and increase our risk of loss resulting from
disruptions of normal operating processes and procedures that may occur during the implementation
of new information and transaction systems.



TAX SERVICES
COMPETITIVE POSITION – Increased competition for tax preparation clients in our retail offices,
online and software channels could adversely affect our current market share and limit our ability
to grow our client base. See clients served statistics included in Item 7, under “Tax Services.”



     REFUND ANTICIPATION LOANS – Changes in government regulation related to RALs could adversely
affect our ability to offer RALs or our ability to purchase participation interests. Changes in IRS
practices could adversely affect our ability to use the IRS debt indicator to limit our bad debt
exposure. Changes in any of these, as well as possible litigation related to RALs, may adversely
affect our results of operations. See discussion of RAL litigation in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”



MORTGAGE SERVICES
COMPETITIVE POSITION – The majority of our mortgage loan applications are submitted through a
network of brokers who have relationships with many other mortgage lenders. Unfavorable changes in
our pricing, service or other factors could result in a decline in our mortgage origination volume.
A decline in our servicer ratings could adversely affect our pricing and origination volume.
Increased competition among mortgage lenders can also result in a decline in coupon rates offered
to our borrowers, which in turn lowers margins and could adversely affect our gains on sales of
mortgage loans.



     MARKET RISKS – Our day-to-day operating activities of originating and selling mortgage loans
have many aspects of interest rate risk. Additionally, the valuation of our retained residual
interests and mortgage servicing rights includes many estimates and assumptions made by management
surrounding interest rates, prepayment speeds and credit losses. Variation in interest rates or the
factors underlying our assumptions could affect our results of operations. See Item 7A, under
“Mortgage Services,” for discussion of interest rate risk, and Item 7, under “Critical Accounting
Policies,” for discussion of our valuation methodology.



     LEGISLATION AND REGULATION – Several states and cities are considering or have passed laws,
regulations or ordinances aimed at curbing predatory lending and servicing practices. The federal
government is also considering legislative and regulatory proposals in this regard. In general,
these proposals involve lowering the existing federal HOEPA thresholds for defining a “high-cost”
loan and establishing enhanced protections and remedies for borrowers who receive such loans. If
unfavorable laws and regulations are passed, it could restrict our ability to originate loans. If
rating agencies refuse to rate our loans, loan buyers may not want to purchase loans labeled as
“high-cost,” and it could restrict our ability to sell our loans in the secondary market.
Accordingly, all of these items could adversely affect our results of operations.



     In 2002, the Federal Reserve Board adopted changes to Regulation C promulgated under the HMDA.
Among other things, the new regulations require lenders to report pricing data on loans with annual
percentage rates that exceed the yield on treasury bills with comparable maturities by 3%. The
expanded reporting was effective in 2004 for reports filed in 2005. We anticipate that a majority
of our loans would be subject to the expanded reporting requirements. The
expanded reporting does not provide for additional loan information such as credit risk,
debt-to-income ratio, loan-to-value ratio, documentation level or other salient loan features.
However, reported information may lead to increased litigation as the information could be
misinterpreted by third parties and could adversely affect our results of operations.



     COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK – Derivative instruments involve counterparty credit risk, which is
the risk that a counterparty may fail to perform on its contractual obligations. We manage this
risk through the use of a policy that includes



15




 






credit standard guidelines, counterparty
diversification, monitoring of counterparty financial condition, use of master netting agreements
with counterparties, and exposure limits based on counterparty credit, exposure amount and
management risk tolerance. The policy is reviewed on an annual basis and as conditions warrant. See
Item 7A, under “Mortgage Services,” and Item 8, note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for
discussion of our derivative instruments.



     REAL ESTATE MARKET – Our residual interests and beneficial interest in Trusts are secured by
mortgage loans, which are in turn secured by residential real estate. Any material decline in real
estate values would likely result in higher delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. Additionally,
a significant portion of the mortgage loans we originate or service is secured by properties in
California. A decline in the economy or the residential real estate market values, or the
occurrence of a natural disaster not covered by standard homeowners’ insurance policies, such as an
earthquake, hurricane or wildfire, could decrease the value of mortgaged properties in California.
Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to
originate and sell loans, the prices we receive on our loans, or the values of our mortgage
servicing rights and residual interests in securitizations, which could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.



BUSINESS SERVICES
ALTERNATIVE PRACTICE STRUCTURE WITH ATTEST FIRMS – Our relationship with the Attest Firms requires
us to comply with applicable regulations regarding the practice of public accounting and auditor
independence rules and requirements. In addition, our relationship with the Attest Firms closely
links our RSM McGladrey brand with the Attest Firms. If the Attest Firms were to encounter
regulatory or independence issues resulting from their relationship with us or if significant
litigation arose involving the Attest Firms or their services which implicated RSM McGladrey, our
brand reputation and our ability to realize the mutual benefits of our relationship, such as the
ability to attract and retain quality professionals, could be impaired.



     INTEGRATION OF AMERICAN EXPRESS TAX AND BUSINESS SERVICES – The integration of American
Express Tax and Business Services is proceeding according to plan. While we expect a successful
integration, there is the potential that it could be delayed or otherwise impacted, which could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



INVESTMENT SERVICES
REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT – The broker-dealer industry continues to come under increased scrutiny by
federal and state regulators and self-regulatory organizations and, as a result, more focus has
been placed on compliance issues. If we do not comply with these regulations, it could result in
regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could adversely affect our results of operations
and our ability to recruit and retain qualified advisors. Negative public opinion about our
industry could damage our reputation even if we are in compliance with such regulations.



     INTEGRATION INTO THE H&R BLOCK BRAND – We are working to foster an advice-based relationship
with our tax clients through our retail tax office network. This advice-based relationship is key
to the integration of Investment Services into the H&R Block brand and deepening our current client
relationships. If we are unable to successfully integrate, it may significantly impact our ability
to differentiate our business from other investment service providers and grow our client base.



     RECRUITING AND RETENTION OF FINANCIAL ADVISORS – Attracting and retaining experienced
financial advisors is extremely competitive in the investment industry. Additionally, in this
industry, clients tend to follow their advisors, regardless of their affiliated investment firm.
The inability to recruit and retain qualified and productive advisors, may adversely affect our
results of operations.



     RECURRING OPERATING LOSSES –  Continuing operating losses in our
Investment Services segment may impact the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets. Such losses
could also necessitate additional capital contributions to comply with regulatory requirements. The
inability to operate this segment in a profitable manner may adversely affect our results of
operations.



      






ITEM 1B