Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for
    additional information.


 











 


    BUSINESS
    SERVICES





    GENERAL –
    Our Business Services segment offers accounting, tax and
    business consulting services, wealth management and capital
    markets services to middle-market companies. Segment revenues
    constituted





    22.0% of our consolidated revenues from continuing
    operations for fiscal year 2009, 23.0% for fiscal year 2008 and
    25.1% for fiscal year 2007.





    This segment consists primarily of RSM, which provides
    accounting, tax and business consulting services in
    93 cities and 25 states and offers services in 21 of
    the 25 top U.S. markets.





    From time to time, we have acquired related businesses and may
    continue to do so if future conditions warrant and satisfactory
    terms can be negotiated.





    RELATIONSHIP WITH
    ATTEST
    FIRMS –
    By regulation, we cannot provide financial statement
    attest services. McGladrey & Pullen LLP (M&P) and
    other public accounting firms (collectively, “the Attest
    Firms”) operate in an alternative practice structure with
    RSM, and provide attest and other services related to client
    financial statements. Through a number of agreements with these
    Attest Firms, we provide accounting, payroll, human resources,
    marketing and other administrative services to the Attest Firms.
    We receive a management fee for these services. We also have a
    cost-sharing arrangement with the Attest Firms, whereby they
    reimburse us for certain costs, mainly for the use of RSM-owned
    or leased real estate, property and equipment. The Attest Firms
    generally may terminate these arrangements upon 210 days
    notice. Following such a termination, the Attest Firms generally
    are prohibited for a period of three years from engaging in
    businesses in which RSM engages or soliciting RSM clients. In
    addition, we provide working capital to M&P through a
    revolving credit facility in an amount equal to the lower of the
    value of their accounts receivable,
    work-in-process
    and fixed assets or $125.0 million. This credit facility is
    secured by M&P’s accounts receivable,
    work-in-process
    and fixed assets. The Attest Firms are limited liability
    partnerships with their own independent management, legal and
    business advisors, professional liability insurance, quality
    assurance and risk management policies. Accordingly, the Attest
    Firms are separate legal entities and not affiliates. Some
    partners and employees of the Attest Firms are also employees of
    RSM. The terms of the RSM/Attest Firms arrangements are based on
    the mutual agreement of the parties. As a result, from time to
    time, the parties assess various aspects of the relationship,
    such as the extent and cost of the RSM services, mutually
    supportive marketing initiatives, acquisition strategies and
    financing, and, when mutually agreed, have




    H&R
    BLOCK 2009
    Form 10K  5
    








Table of Contents




    implemented appropriate changes in
    the relationship. Such a discussion is currently underway, which
    could lead to additional changes in the relationship.
    





    SEASONALITY OF
    BUSINESS –
    Revenues for this segment are largely seasonal in nature,
    with peak revenues occurring during January through April.





    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS –
    The accounting, tax and consulting business is highly
    competitive. The principal methods of competition are price,
    service and reputation for quality. There are a substantial
    number of accounting firms offering similar services at the
    international, national, regional and local levels. As our focus
    is on middle-market businesses, our principal competition is
    with national and regional accounting firms.





    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION –
    Many of the same federal and state regulations relating
    to tax preparers and the information concerning tax reform
    discussed previously in Tax Services apply to the Business
    Services segment as well. RSM is not, and is not eligible to be,
    a licensed public accounting firm and takes measures to ensure
    that it does not provide services prohibited by regulation, such
    as attest services. RSM, through its subsidiaries, provides
    capital markets and wealth management services and is subject to
    state and federal regulations governing investment advisors and
    securities brokers and dealers.





    Auditor independence rules of the SEC, the Public Company
    Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and various states apply to
    the Attest Firms as public accounting firms. In applying its
    auditor independence rules, the SEC views us and the Attest
    Firms as a single entity and requires that the SEC independence
    rules for the Attest Firms apply to us and requires us to be
    independent of any SEC audit client of the Attest Firms. The SEC
    regards any financial interest or prohibited business
    relationship we have with a client of the Attest Firms as a
    financial interest or prohibited business relationship between
    the Attest Firms and the client for purposes of applying its
    auditor independence rules.





    We and the Attest Firms have jointly developed and implemented
    policies, procedures and controls designed to ensure the Attest
    Firms’ independence as audit firms complying with
    applicable SEC regulations and professional responsibilities.
    These policies, procedures and controls are designed to monitor
    and prevent violations of applicable independence rules and
    include, among other things: (1) informing our officers,
    directors and other members of senior management concerning
    auditor independence matters; (2) procedures for monitoring
    securities ownership; (3) communicating with SEC audit
    clients regarding the SEC’s interpretation and application
    of relevant independence rules and guidelines; and
    (4) requiring RSM employees to comply with the Attest
    Firms’ independence and relationship policies (including
    the Attest Firms’ independence compliance questionnaire
    procedures).





    See discussion in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for
    additional information.


 











 


    CONSUMER
    FINANCIAL SERVICES





    GENERAL –
    Our Consumer Financial Services segment is engaged in
    providing retail banking offerings through HRB Bank, primarily
    to Tax Services clients in the U.S. HRB Bank offers the
    H&R Block Prepaid Emerald
    MasterCard®

    and Emerald Advance lines of credit through our Tax Services
    segment. HRB Bank also offers traditional banking services
    including prepaid debit card accounts, checking and savings
    accounts, individual retirement accounts and certificates of
    deposit. Segment revenues constituted 3.5% of our consolidated
    revenues from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009, 3.5%
    for 2008 and 2.1% for 2007. This segment previously included
    HRBFA, which was sold to Ameriprise during fiscal year 2009 and
    has been presented as a discontinued operation in the
    accompanying consolidated financial statements.





    The operations of HRB Bank are primarily focused on providing
    limited retail banking services to tax clients of H&R
    Block. In fiscal years 2008 and 2007, HRB Bank purchased
    mortgage loans, primarily from former affiliates. Although HRB
    Bank no longer intends to purchase mortgage loans, it continues
    to hold mortgage loans for investment purposes. HRB Bank had
    mortgage loans held for investment of $744.9 million and
    $966.3 million at April 30, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.





    HRB Bank earns interest income on mortgage loans held for
    investment and other investments, bank card transaction fees on
    the use of debit cards, fees from the use of ATM networks and
    interest and fees related to Emerald Advance lines of credit.
    H&R Block and its affiliates provide certain administrative
    services to HRB Bank. A significant portion of HRB Bank’s
    deposit base includes deposits relating to the business of
    affiliates.





    The information required by the SEC’s Industry Guide 3,
    “Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies,” is
    included in Item 7.





    SEASONALITY OF
    BUSINESS –
    HRB Bank’s operating results are subject to seasonal
    fluctuations primarily related to the offering of the H&R
    Block Prepaid Emerald
    MasterCard®

    and Emerald Advance lines of credit. These services are
    primarily offered to Tax Services clients, and therefore peak in
    January and February and taper off through the remainder of the
    tax season.




    6   H&R
    BLOCK 2009 Form 10K








Table of Contents




    COMPETITIVE
    CONDITIONS –
    HRB Bank is highly integrated with our Tax Services
    segment and its customer base of tax preparation clients. For
    many of these clients, HRB Bank is their only access to banking
    services. HRB Bank does not seek to compete broadly with
    regional or national retail banks.





    GOVERNMENT
    REGULATION –
    HRB Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and
    examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), the
    Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    (FDIC). All savings associations are subject to the capital
    adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt
    corrective action. HRB Bank must meet specific capital
    guidelines involving quantitative measures of HRB Bank’s
    assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as
    calculated under regulatory accounting practices. HRB
    Bank’s capital amounts and classification are also subject
    to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components,
    risk-weightings and other factors. As a savings and loan holding
    company, H&R Block, Inc. is also subject to regulation by
    the OTS.





    See Item 7, “Regulatory Environment” and
    Item 8, note 16 to the consolidated financial
    statements for additional discussion of regulatory requirements.





    Also see discussion in 1A, “Risk Factors” for
    additional information.


 











 


    SERVICE MARKS,
    TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS





    We have made a practice of selling our services and products
    under service marks and trademarks and of obtaining protection
    for these by all available means. Our service marks and
    trademarks are protected by registration in the U.S. and
    other countries where our services and products are marketed. We
    consider these service marks and trademarks, in the aggregate,
    to be of material importance to our business, particularly our
    business segments providing services and products under the
    “H&R Block” brand.





    We have no registered patents material to our business.


 











 


    EMPLOYEES





    We have approximately 8,300 regular full-time employees as of
    April 30, 2009. The highest number of persons we employed
    during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2009, including
    seasonal employees, was approximately 133,700.


 











 


    AVAILABILITY OF
    REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION





    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and all amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to
    the SEC are available, free of charge, through our website at
    www.hrblock.com as soon as reasonably practicable after
    such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the
    SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing
    reports, proxy and information statements and other information
    regarding issuers who file electronically with the SEC.





    Copies of the following corporate governance documents are
    posted on our website:







    
    
    



     
        § 

    
    The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of H&R
    Block, Inc.;








     
        § 

    
    The Amended and Restated Bylaws of H&R Block, Inc.;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Board of Directors Independence
    Standards;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Audit Committee Charter;








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Governance and Nominating Committee
    Charter; and








     
        § 

    
    The H&R Block, Inc. Compensation Committee Charter.








    If you would like a printed copy of any of these corporate
    governance documents, please send your request to the Office of
    the Secretary, H&R Block, Inc., One H&R Block Way,
    Kansas City, Missouri 64105.





    Information contained on our website does not constitute any
    part of this report.


 











 


    ITEM 1A.
    RISK FACTORS





    An investment in our common stock involves risk, including the
    risk that the value of an investment may decline or that returns
    on that investment may fall below expectations. There are a
    number of significant factors which could cause actual
    conditions, events or results to differ materially from those
    described in forward-looking statements, many of which are
    beyond management’s control or its ability to accurately
    forecast or predict, or could adversely affect our operating
    results and the value of any investment in our stock. Other
    factors besides those listed below or discussed in reports filed
    with the SEC could adversely affect our results.




    H&R
    BLOCK 2009
    Form 10K  7
    








Table of Contents






    Our businesses
    may be adversely affected by economic conditions generally,
    including the current economic recession.





    An economic recession, as we are currently experiencing, is
    frequently characterized by rising unemployment and declining
    consumer and business spending. Poor economic conditions may
    negatively affect demand and pricing for our services. In
    addition, the recent downturn in the residential housing market
    and increase in mortgage defaults has negatively impacted our
    operating results and may continue to do so. An economic
    recession will likely reduce the ability of our borrowers to
    repay mortgage loans, and declining home values could increase
    the severity of loss we may incur in the event of default. In
    addition to mortgage loans, we also extend secured and unsecured
    credit to other customers, including RALs and Emerald Advance
    lines of credit to our tax preparation customers. We may incur
    significant losses on credit we extend, which in turn could
    reduce our profitability.


 




    Our access to
    liquidity may be negatively impacted if disruptions in credit
    markets occur, if credit rating downgrades occur or if we fail
    to meet certain covenants. Funding costs may increase, leading
    to reduced earnings.





    We need liquidity to meet our off-season working capital
    requirements, to service debt obligations including refinancing
    of maturing obligations, to purchase RAL participations and for
    other related activities. Although we believe we have sufficient
    liquidity to meet our current needs, our access to and the cost
    of liquidity could be negatively impacted in the event of
    credit-rating downgrades or if we fail to meet existing debt
    covenants. In addition, events could occur which could increase
    our need for liquidity above current levels.





    If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, the cost of debt
    would likely increase and capital market availability could
    decrease or become unavailable. Our unsecured committed lines of
    credit (CLOCs) are subject to various covenants, including a
    covenant requiring that we maintain minimum net worth equal to
    $650.0 million and a requirement that we reduce the
    aggregate outstanding principal amount of short-term debt (as
    defined) to $200.0 million or less for a minimum period of
    thirty consecutive days during the period from March 1 to June
    30 of each year. Violation of a covenant could impair our access
    to liquidity currently available through the CLOCs. If current
    sources of liquidity were to become unavailable, we would need
    to obtain additional sources of funding, which may not be
    possible or may be available under less favorable terms.


 




    The industries in
    which we operate face substantial litigation, and such
    litigation may damage our reputation or result in material
    liabilities and losses.





    We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various
    legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other
    litigation arising in connection with our various business
    activities. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result
    in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline.
    Negative public opinion can also result from our actual or
    alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation
    and could cause the market price of our stock to decline. See
    Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for additional
    information.


 




    Failure to comply
    with laws and regulations that protect our customers’
    personal and financial information could result in significant
    fines, penalties and damages and could harm our brand and
    reputation.





    Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure of consumer
    financial information have drawn increased attention from
    federal and state governments. The IRS generally prohibits the
    use or disclosure by tax return preparers of taxpayers’
    information without the prior written consent of the taxpayer.
    In addition, other regulations require financial service
    providers to adopt and disclose consumer privacy policies and
    provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to
    “opt-out” of having personal information disclosed to
    unaffiliated third-parties for marketing purposes. Although we
    have established security procedures to protect against identity
    theft, breaches of our clients’ privacy may occur. To the
    extent the measures we have taken prove to be insufficient or
    inadequate, we may become subject to litigation or
    administrative sanctions, which could result in significant
    fines, penalties or damages and harm to our brand and reputation.





    In addition, changes in these federal and state regulatory
    requirements could result in more stringent requirements and
    could result in a need to change business practices, including
    how information is disclosed. Establishing systems and processes
    to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase
    costs and/or
    limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.


 




    We are subject to
    operational risk and risks associated with our controls and
    procedures, which may result in incurring financial and
    reputational losses.





    There is a risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
    processes or systems, theft or fraud. These can occur in many
    forms including, among others, errors, business interruptions
    arising from natural disasters or other events, inadequate
    design and development of products and services, inappropriate
    behavior of or misconduct by our employees or those contracted
    to perform services for us, and vendors that do not perform in
    accordance with




    8   H&R
    BLOCK 2009 Form 10K








Table of Contents




    their contractual agreements. These
    events could potentially result in financial losses or other
    damages. We utilize internally developed processes, internal and
    external information and technological systems to manage our
    operations. We are exposed to risk of loss resulting from
    breaches in the security or other failures of these processes
    and systems. Our ability to recover or replace our major
    operational systems and processes could have a significant
    impact on our core business operations and increase our risk of
    loss due to disruptions of normal operating processes and
    procedures that may occur while re-establishing or implementing
    information and transaction systems and processes. As our
    businesses are seasonal, our systems must be capable of
    processing high volumes during peak season. Therefore, service
    interruptions resulting from system failures could negatively
    impact our ability to serve our customers, which in turn could
    damage our brand and reputation, or adversely impact our
    profitability.
    





    We also face the risk that the design of our controls and
    procedures may prove to be inadequate or that our controls and
    procedures may be circumvented, thereby causing delays in
    detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. It
    is possible that any lapses in the effective operations of
    controls and procedures could materially affect earnings or harm
    our reputation. Lapses or deficiencies in internal control over
    financial reporting could also be material to us.


 



    TAX
    SERVICES


 


    Government
    initiatives that simplify tax return preparation could reduce
    the need for our services as a third-party tax return preparer.
    In addition, changes in government regulations or processes
    regarding the preparation and filing of tax returns may increase
    our operating costs or reduce our revenues.





    Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers
    such as us because of the level of complexity involved in the
    tax return preparation and filing process. From time to time,
    government officials propose measures seeking to simplify the
    preparation and filing of tax returns or to provide additional
    assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax
    returns. The passage of any measures that significantly simplify
    tax return preparation or otherwise reduce the need for a
    third-party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our
    services, causing our revenues or results of operations to
    decline.





    Governmental regulations and processes affect how we provide
    services to our clients. Changes in these regulations and
    processes may require us to make corresponding changes to our
    client service systems and procedures. The degree and timing of
    changes in governmental regulations and processes may impair our
    ability to serve our clients in an effective and cost-efficient
    manner or reduce demand for our services, causing our revenues
    or results of operations to decline.


 




    Federal and state
    legislators and regulators have increasingly taken an active
    role in regulating financial products such as RALs. In addition,
    we are dependent on third-party financial institutions to
    provide certain of these financial products to our clients and
    these institutions could cease or significantly reduce the
    offering of such products. These trends or potential
    developments could impede our ability to facilitate these
    financial products, reduce demand for our services and harm our
    business.





    Changes in government regulation related to RALs could limit the
    offering of RALs to our clients or our ability to purchase
    participation interests. In addition, third-party financial
    institutions currently originating RALs and similar products
    could decide to cease or significantly limit such offerings and
    related collection practices. Changes in IRS practices could
    impair our ability to limit our bad debt exposure. Changes in
    any of these, as well as possible litigation related to
    financial products offered through our distribution channels,
    may cause our revenues or profitability to decline. See
    discussion of RAL litigation in Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings.” In addition to the loss of revenues and
    income directly attributable to the RAL program, the inability
    to offer RALs could indirectly result in the loss of retail tax
    clients and associated tax preparation revenues, unless we were
    able to take mitigating actions.





    Total revenues related directly to the RAL program (including
    revenues from participation interests) were $141.0 million
    for the year ended April 30, 2009, representing 3.5% of
    consolidated revenues and contributed $56.8 million to the
    Tax Services segment’s pretax results. Revenues related
    directly to the RAL program totaled $189.8 million for the
    year ended April 30, 2008, representing 4.6% of
    consolidated revenues and contributed $87.0 million to
    pretax results.


 




    Increased
    competition for tax preparation clients in our retail offices
    and our online and software channels could adversely affect our
    current market share and profitability, and could limit our
    ability to grow our client base. Offers of free tax preparation
    services could adversely affect our revenues and
    profitability.





    The retail tax services business is highly competitive. There
    are a substantial number of tax return preparation firms and
    accounting firms offering tax return preparation services. Many
    tax return preparation firms and many firms not otherwise in the
    tax return preparation business are involved in providing
    electronic filing, RALs and




    H&R
    BLOCK 2009
    Form 10K  9
    








Table of Contents




    other related services to the
    public. Commercial tax return preparers and electronic filers
    are highly competitive with regard to price and service. Our
    digital tax solutions businesses also compete with in-office tax
    preparation services and a number of online and software
    companies, primarily on the basis of price and functionality.
    





    Federal and certain state taxing authorities currently offer, or
    facilitate the offer of, tax return preparation and electronic
    filing options to taxpayers at no charge. In addition, many of
    our direct competitors offer certain free online tax preparation
    and electronic filing options. We have free offerings as well
    and prepared 788,000 federal income tax returns in fiscal year
    2009 at no charge as part of the FFA. Government tax authorities
    and direct competitors may elect to expand free offerings in the
    future. Intense price competition, including offers of free
    service, could result in a loss of market share, lower revenues
    or lower margins.





    See tax returns prepared statistics included in Item 7,
    under “Tax Services.”


 



    BUSINESS
    SERVICES


 


    The RSM
    alternative practice structure involves relationships with
    Attest Firms that are subject to regulatory restrictions and
    other constraints. Failure to comply with these restrictions, or
    operational difficulties involving the Attest Firms, could
    damage our brand reputation, lead to reduced earnings and impair
    our investment in RSM.





    RSM’s relationship with the Attest Firms requires
    compliance with applicable regulations regarding the practice of
    public accounting and auditor independence rules and
    requirements. Many of RSM’s clients are also clients of the
    Attest Firms. In addition, the relationship with the Attest
    Firms closely links our RSM McGladrey brand with the Attest
    Firms. If the Attest Firms were to encounter regulatory or
    independence issues pertaining to the alternative practice
    structure or if significant litigation arose involving the
    Attest Firms or their services, such developments could have an
    adverse effect on our brand reputation and our ability to
    realize the mutual benefits of our relationship. In addition, a
    significant judgment or settlement of a claim against the Attest
    Firms could (1) impair M&P’s ability to meet its
    payment obligations under various service arrangements with RSM
    and to repay amounts borrowed under the revolving credit
    facility it maintains with us, (2) impact RSM’s
    ability to attract and retain clients and quality professionals,
    (3) have a significant indirect adverse effect on RSM, as
    the Attest Firm partners are also RSM employees and
    (4) result in significant management distraction. This in
    turn could result in reduced revenue and earnings and, if
    sufficiently significant, impairment of our investment in RSM.


 




    RSM receives a
    significant portion of its revenues from clients that are also
    clients of the Attest Firms. A termination of the alternative
    practice structure between RSM and the Attest Firms could result
    in a material loss of revenue to RSM and an impairment of our
    investment in RSM.





    Under the alternative practice structure, RSM and the Attest
    Firms market their services jointly and provide services to a
    significant number of common clients. RSM also provides
    operational and administrative support services to the Attest
    Firms, including accounting, payroll, human resources,
    marketing, administrative services and personnel, and office
    space and equipment. In return for these services, RSM receives
    a management fee and reimbursement of certain costs, mainly for
    the use of RSM-owned or leased real estate, property and
    equipment. If the RSM/Attest Firms relationship under the
    alternative practice structure were to be terminated, RSM could
    lose key employees and clients. In addition, RSM may not be able
    to recoup its costs associated with the infrastructure used to
    provide the operational and administrative support services to
    the Attest Firms. This in turn could result in reduced revenue,
    increased costs and reduced earnings and, if sufficiently
    significant, impairment of our investment in RSM.


 



    CONSUMER
    FINANCIAL SERVICES


 


    We are subject to
    extensive government regulation, including banking rules and
    regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable banking laws,
    rules and regulations, we could be subject to disciplinary
    actions, damages, penalties or restrictions that could
    significantly harm our business.





    The OTS can, among other things, censure, fine, issue
    cease-and-desist
    orders or suspend or expel a bank or any of its officers or
    employees with respect to banking activities. Similarly, the
    attorneys general of each state could bring legal action on
    behalf of the citizens of the various states to ensure
    compliance with local laws.





    HRB Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements
    administered by the OTS. Failure to meet minimum capital
    requirements may trigger actions by regulators that, if
    undertaken, could have a direct material effect on HRB Bank. HRB
    Bank must meet specific capital guidelines involving
    quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain
    off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory
    accounting practices. A bank’s capital amounts and
    classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the
    regulators about the strength of components of its capital,
    risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions and
    other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation
    to ensure capital adequacy require HRB Bank to maintain minimum
    amounts and ratios of tangible equity, total risk-based capital
    and Tier 1 capital. In addition to these minimum ratio
    requirements, HRB Bank is required to continually maintain a
    12.0% minimum leverage ratio through fiscal year 2012.




    10   H&R
    BLOCK 2009 Form 10K








Table of Contents




    See Item 8, note 16 to the consolidated financial
    statements for the calculation of required ratios.


 




    Economic
    conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job
    market may result in deterioration in credit quality of our loan
    portfolio, and such deterioration could have a negative impact
    on our business and profitability.





    The overall credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment
    is impacted by the strength of the U.S. economy and local
    economic conditions, including residential housing prices.
    Economic trends that negatively affect housing prices and the
    job market could result in deterioration in credit quality of
    our mortgage loan portfolio and a decline in the value of
    associated collateral. Future interest rate resets could also
    lead to increased delinquencies in our mortgage loans held for
    investment. Recent trends in the residential mortgage loan
    market reflect an increase in loan delinquencies and declining
    collateral values. As a result of similar trends in our loan
    portfolio, we recorded significant loan loss provisions totaling
    $63.9 million during fiscal year 2009.





    Our loan portfolio is concentrated in the states of Florida,
    California, New York and Wisconsin, which represented 19.4%,
    17.0%, 13.7% and 8.3%, respectively, of our total mortgage loans
    held for investment at April 30, 2009. No other state held
    more than 5% of our loan balances. If adverse trends in the
    residential mortgage loan market continue, particularly in
    geographic areas in which we own a greater concentration of
    mortgage loans, we could incur additional significant loan loss
    provisions.





    Mortgage loans purchased from Sand Canyon Corporation (SCC),
    formerly Option One Mortgage Corporation, represented
    approximately 65% of total loans held for investment at
    April 30, 2009. These loans have been subject to higher
    delinquency rates than other loans in our portfolio, and may
    expose us to greater risk of credit loss.


 




    Significant
    changes have been proposed relating to the regulation of
    financial institutions. Although the ultimate impact of pending
    proposals is uncertain at this time, increased regulation could
    impact operating activities of our bank.





    Various legislative proposals have been made regarding changes
    in the regulation of financial institutions, including the
    recently released Financial Regulatory Reform Plan. Prior
    proposals included legislation which would have empowered courts
    to modify the terms of mortgage loans including a reduction in
    the principal amount to reflect lower underlying property values.





    Future changes in regulation could increase compliance
    requirements and operating costs of HRB Bank, and could
    potentially limit operating activities of the bank. Should
    proposals be enacted into law allowing government modification
    of mortgage loans, we could report losses on mortgage loans in
    excess of current levels. The availability of principal
    reductions or other mortgage loan modifications could make
    bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers,
    leading to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults.


 



    DISCONTINUED
    OPERATIONS


 



    SCC is subject to
    potential litigation stemming from discontinued mortgage
    operations, which may result in significant financial
    losses.





    Although SCC terminated its mortgage loan origination activities
    and sold its loan servicing business during fiscal year 2008, it
    remains subject to investigations, claims and lawsuits
    pertaining to its loan origination and servicing activities
    prior to such termination and sale. The costs involved in
    defending against
    and/or
    resolving these investigations, claims and lawsuits may be
    substantial in some instances and the ultimate resulting
    liability is difficult to predict. In the current non-prime
    mortgage environment, the number and frequency of
    investigations, claims and lawsuits has increased over
    historical experience and is likely to continue at increased
    levels. In the event of unfavorable outcomes, the amount SCC may
    be required to pay in the discharge of liabilities or
    settlements could be substantial and, because SCC’s
    operating results are included in our consolidated financial
    statements, could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated results of operations.


 




    We are subject to
    potential contingent liabilities related to loan repurchase
    obligations, which may result in significant financial
    losses.





    SCC remains exposed to losses relating to mortgage loans it
    previously originated. Non-prime mortgage loans originated by
    SCC were sold either as whole-loan sales to single third-party
    buyers or in the form of a securitization.





    SCC entered into indemnification agreements with third-parties
    relating to the mortgage loans transferred through such
    whole-loan sales or securitizations. In some instances, H&R
    Block, Inc. was required to guarantee SCC’s obligations.
    Obligations to repurchase loans or indemnify a third-party up to
    an agreed upon amount may arise from breaches of various
    representations and warranties SCC made under such
    indemnification agreements. These representations and warranties
    vary based on the nature of the transaction and the buyer’s
    requirements but generally pertain to the ownership of the loan,
    the property securing the loan and compliance with applicable
    laws




    H&R
    BLOCK 2009
    Form 10K  11
    








Table of Contents




    and SCC underwriting guidelines.
    These representations and warranties and corresponding
    repurchase obligations generally are not subject to stated
    limits or a stated term.
    





    SCC records a liability for contingent losses relating to
    representation and warranty claims by estimating loan repurchase
    volumes and indemnification obligations for both known claims
    and projections of expected future claims. To the extent that
    future valid claim volumes exceed current estimates, or the
    value of mortgage loans and residential home prices decline,
    future losses may be greater than these estimates and those
    differences may be significant.


 



 


    ITEM 1B