, “Risk Factors,” we are in the process of evaluating alternative means of ceasing to be an SLHC, in which case we would no longer be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as an SLHC. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act created the new CFPB with the power to administer and enforce federal financial consumer protection laws. The CFPB may issue regulations that apply to HRB Bank, and to our non-bank subsidiaries that provide consumer financial services and products. The CFPB may examine, and take enforcement actions against, our non-bank subsidiaries. See Item 1A for further information on the CFPB.See Item 7, under “Regulatory Environment” and Item 8, note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of regulatory requirements.SERVICE MARKS, TRADEMARKS AND PATENTSWe have made a practice of selling our services and products under service marks and trademarks and of obtaining protection for these by all available means including, but not limited to, registration of our service marks and trademarks in the U.S. and other countries where our services and products are marketed. We consider these service marks and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to our business, particularly our businesses providing services and products under the “H&R Block” brand.We have no registered patents material to our business.EMPLOYEESWe had approximately 2,200 regular full-time employees as of April 30, 2013. The highest number of persons we employed during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2013, including seasonal employees, was approximately 80,700.AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATIONOur annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available, free of charge, through our website at www.hrblock.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers who file electronically with the SEC.H&R Block 2013 Form 10K7Table of ContentsThe following corporate governance documents are posted on our website at www.hrblock.com:n The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of H&R Block, Inc.;n The Amended and Restated Bylaws of H&R Block, Inc.;n The H&R Block, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines;n The H&R Block, Inc. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct;n The H&R Block, Inc. Board of Directors Independence Standards;n The H&R Block, Inc. Audit Committee Charter;n The H&R Block, Inc. Compensation Committee Charter;n The H&R Block, Inc. Finance Committee Charter; andn The H&R Block, Inc. Governance and Nominating Committee Charter.If you would like a printed copy of any of these corporate governance documents, please send your request to the Office of the Secretary, H&R Block, Inc., One H&R Block Way, Kansas City, Missouri 64105.Information contained on our website does not constitute any part of this report.ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSOur business activities expose us to a variety of risks. Identification, monitoring and management of these risks are essential to the success of our operations and the financial soundness of H&R Block. Senior management and the Board of Directors, acting as a whole and through its committees, take an active role in our risk management process and have delegated certain activities related to the oversight of risk management to the Company's Risk Committee, which is comprised of senior managers of major businesses and control functions. The Risk Committee is responsible for identifying and monitoring risk exposures and leading the continued development of our risk management policies and practices. An investment in our securities involves risk, including the risk that the value of an investment may decline or that returns on that investment may fall below expectations. There are a number of significant factors that could cause actual conditions, events or results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond management’s control or its ability to accurately estimate or predict, or that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the value of an investment in our securities.RISKS RELATING TO CONTINUING OPERATIONSIncreased competition for tax preparation clients could adversely affect our current market share and profitability. Offers of free tax preparation services could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.We provide both assisted and DIY tax preparation services and products and face substantial competition throughout our businesses. The assisted tax services category in the tax preparation industry is highly competitive. There are a substantial number of tax return preparation firms and accounting firms offering tax return preparation services. Many tax return preparation firms and many firms not otherwise in the tax return preparation business are involved in providing electronic filing and other related services to the public, and certain firms provide RACs and other similar products. Commercial tax return preparers and electronic filers are highly competitive with regard to price and service. In the DIY category of the tax preparation industry, options include the use of traditional paper forms and various forms of digital electronic assistance, including online, mobile and desktop software, all of which we offer. Our digital tax solutions services and products also compete with in-office tax preparation services and a number of online and software companies, primarily on the basis of price and functionality. Assisted and DIY competitors offer various tax preparation services and products at no charge. Intense price competition could result in a reduction of our market share, lower revenues or lower margins. U.S. federal and certain state taxing authorities, as well as taxing authorities in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, currently offer, or facilitate the offering of, tax return preparation and electronic filing options to taxpayers at no charge, and volunteer organizations prepare tax returns at no charge for low-income taxpayers. In addition, many of our competitors offer certain tax preparation and electronic filing options at no charge. In order to compete, we also have free tax service offerings in several categories. We enabled the preparation of 774,000, 861,000 and 767,000 U.S. federal income tax returns in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, at no charge through the FFA. We also have free online tax preparation offerings and provided free preparation of Federal 1040EZ forms in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, and free RACs to certain clients in fiscal year 2012. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract clients or effectively ensure the migration of clients from our free tax service offerings to those for which we receive fees, and clients who have formerly paid for our tax service offerings may elect to use free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, or harm our ability to acquire and retain clients.8H&R Block 2013 Form 10KTable of ContentsGovernment tax authorities, volunteer organizations and our direct competitors may also elect to expand free offerings in the future. From time to time U.S. federal and state governments have considered various proposals (often referred to as “Return-Free Filing” or “Real-Time Tax”) through which the respective governmental taxing authorities would use taxpayer information to “pre-populate,” prepare and calculate tax returns and distribute them to taxpayers. The taxpayer could then challenge the return or sign and return it. Although the FFA has kept the federal government from becoming a direct competitor to our tax service offerings in the U.S., it has fostered additional online competition and may cause us to lose significant revenue opportunities. We anticipate that governmental encroachment at both the U.S. federal and state levels, as well as comparable government levels in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, may present a continued competitive threat to our business for the foreseeable future.See tax returns prepared statistics included in Item 7, under “Tax Services – Operating Statistics.”Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our clients’ and employees’ personal and financial information could harm our brand and reputation and could result in significant fines, penalties and damages.A number of our businesses collect, use and retain large amounts of personal client information and data, including credit card numbers, tax return information, bank account numbers and social security numbers. In addition, we collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and some transactions are executed by third parties. We use security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information. However, unauthorized individuals or third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business measures, which may require notification under applicable data privacy regulations. We employ contractors and temporary employees who may have access to the personal information of clients and employees or who may execute transactions in the normal course of their duties. While we conduct background checks and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these controls could be circumvented. Improper disclosure or use of our client's personal and financial information could result in damage to our brand and reputation; actions required to remediate improper disclosures could be costly.We are subject to laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use, disclosure and security of consumer financial information, which have drawn increased attention from U.S. federal and state governments, as well as governmental authorities in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. In the U.S., the IRS imposes various prohibitions on the use or disclosure by a tax return preparer of a taxpayer's information for purposes other than tax return preparation without the prior written consent of the taxpayer. In addition, other regulations require financial service providers to adopt and disclose consumer privacy policies and provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to “opt-out” of having nonpublic personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third parties. Several jurisdictions have passed new laws in this area and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. In addition, changes in these U.S. federal and state regulatory requirements, as well as requirements imposed by governmental authorities in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in more stringent requirements and could result in a need to change business practices, including the types of information we can use and the manner in which we can use such information. Establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase costs or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.A security breach involving confidential client information may adversely affect our offer of online services, our reputation and financial performance.We offer a range of services to our clients online, including digital and assisted tax services and banking services provided by HRB Bank, and we store a large amount of personal client data on our servers. A significant requirement of providing online financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We and our vendors use commercially available security technologies to protect confidential transactions and personal information. The systems we use rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used to protect client data. Errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information may result in a breach of client data. If we, or another provider of financial services through the internet, were to suffer damage from a security breach, public acceptance and use of our online services could suffer. In addition, our clients may access our online tax services from their computers and mobile devices, install and use our H&R Block At Home® tax preparation software on their computers, and access online banking services from their computers and mobile devices. Because our business model relies on our clients' use of their own personal computers, mobile devices and the internet, computer viruses and other attacks on our clients' personal computer systems and mobile devices could create losses for our clients even without any breach in the security of our systems, and could thereby harm our business and our reputation. We also rely on our franchisees to maintain secure systems. A major breach of our security measures or those of our franchisees or third parties that execute transactions or hold and manage personal information may have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including reduced client demand for our services and products, harm to our reputation and brands, possible fines, penalties and damages, further regulation and oversight by U.S. federal, state or foreign governmental agencies, and loss of our ability to provide financial transaction services or accept and H&R Block 2013 Form 10K9Table of Contentsprocess client credit card orders or tax returns. From time to time, we detect, or receive notices from clients or public or private agencies that they have detected, vulnerabilities in our servers, our software or third-party software components that are distributed with our services and products. The existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a security breach, may harm client confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we may not be able to discover or remediate such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited. Although we have commercially available network and application security, internal control measures, and physical security procedures to safeguard our systems, there can be no assurance that a security breach, intrusion, loss or theft of personal information will not occur.Any security breach could impair our ability to grow and maintain profitability and, possibly, our ability to continue delivering our services and products through the internet. Although we, with the help of third party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent security breaches, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful, which could harm our business, reputation with clients and future financial results and require us to expend significant resources to address these matters, including notification under data privacy regulations.An interruption in our information systems, or those of our franchisees or a third party on which we rely, or an interruption in the internet could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems and the internet to conduct our business. Our systems and operations are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, negative disruptions to the operation of the internet, penetration of our network by hackers or other unauthorized users and natural disasters. Any failure or interruption in our information systems, or information systems of our franchisees or a third party on which we rely, or an interruption in the internet or other critical business capability could negatively impact our core business operations and increase our risk of loss. As our businesses are seasonal, our systems must be capable of processing high volumes during peak season. Therefore, service interruptions resulting from system or internet failures could negatively impact our ability to serve our clients, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We cannot make assurances that system or internet failures, or interruptions in critical business capabilities will not occur, or if they do occur that we, our franchisees or the third parties on whom we rely will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or communication systems interruptions may not be adequate, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems or other critical business capability. The occurrence of any systems or internet failure, or business interruption could negatively impact our ability to serve our clients, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Government initiatives that simplify tax return preparation or expedite refunds could reduce the need for our services as a third-party tax return preparer, and cause our revenues or results of operations to decline.Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers such as us not only because of the level of complexity involved in the tax return preparation and filing process, but also because of paid tax return preparers' ability to expedite refund proceeds under certain circumstances. From time to time, the IRS or members of Congress propose measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of federal tax returns, including preparation of tax returns directly by the IRS, and to provide additional assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns or expediting refunds. H&R Block is a member of the FFA, which provides the ability for low-income taxpayers to prepare and file their own tax return for free. The IRS has been exploring the Real Time Tax System concept, which would require that documents (such as W-2s and 1099s) must be on file with the IRS prior to the taxpayer submitting their tax return. The objective of this concept would be to facilitate document matching such that it would reduce fraud, and after the fact audits. The implementation of the Real Time Tax System would provide the foundation for the IRS preparation of tax returns, and thus, were it to come to fruition, makes the pre-populated return a more tangible possibility.In the past, the U.S. Department of the Treasury completed a prepaid debit card pilot program designed to facilitate the refund process. HRB Bank also provides this type of service through its H&R Block Prepaid Emerald MasterCard®. Additionally, the IRS has in the past explored the possibility of allowing taxpayers to allocate a portion of their tax refund to pay the tax preparation fees, which could reduce the demand for RACs. However, the IRS has not advanced this initiative. Taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, and various state and local taxing authorities, have also introduced measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of tax returns in their respective jurisdictions. The adoption or expansion of any measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation, expedite refunds or otherwise reduce the need for a third-party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our services and products and cause our revenues or results of operations to decline.10H&R Block 2013 Form 10KTable of ContentsProposed Federal Reserve capital requirements may restrict our capital allocation strategies and we are therefore exploring alternatives to cease being an SLHC. If we were to cease being an SLHC, the means we use to deliver financial services and products to our customers and the revenues and profitability of those offerings could be adversely impacted.Our subsidiary, HRB Bank, is a federal savings bank. Our Holding Companies are SLHCs because they control HRB Bank.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to promulgate minimum capital requirements for SLHCs, including leverage and risk-based capital requirements that are no less stringent than those applicable to insured depository institutions at the time the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted. On August 30, 2012, the Federal Reserve published in the Federal Register a notice of proposed rulemaking on regulatory capital requirements, implementing changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act and aspects of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms, portions of which would apply to our Holding Companies (“Proposed Capital Rules”). The OCC, which regulates HRB Bank, and the FDIC joined the Federal Reserve in requesting comments on the Proposed Capital Rules. The comment period expired on October 22, 2012. We provided formal comments on the Proposed Capital Rules. It is currently unclear what the regulatory capital requirements for SLHCs will be and when such capital requirements will become effective. The Federal Reserve announced on November 9, 2012 that the implementation would be postponed beyond January 1, 2013 to an unspecified date. See Item 1, “Regulation and Supervision - Bank and Holding Companies,” for details of the proposed requirements.The Federal Reserve Bank, the Company's primary banking regulator, has issued guidance set forth in Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 (March 27, 2009) regarding the payment of dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases by bank holding companies. Pursuant to Supervisory Letter SR 11-11 (July 21, 2011), the Federal Reserve has directed examiners to apply the principles of SR 09-4 to SLHCs. Pursuant to SR 09-4, we have committed to provide notice to the Federal Reserve prior to paying dividends or repurchasing shares.The Proposed Capital Rules would require our Holding Companies to retain significant additional capital, even though HRB Bank has regulatory capital substantially above the “well capitalized” level. At this time, we do not foresee regulatory flexibility in this regard in light of the Federal Reserve's views of the statutory requirements imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, while our current belief is that dividends at current levels would continue to be permitted as long as HRB Bank remains well capitalized, the Federal Reserve will closely supervise and likely restrict our other capital allocation decisions, including stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other forms of strategic investment. As previously announced, we are in the process of evaluating alternative means of ceasing to be an SLHC, in which case we would no longer be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as an SLHC. In connection with that evaluation, we are exploring alternatives to continue delivering financial services and products to our customers.Our evaluation of alternatives is ongoing and we cannot predict the timing, the circumstances, or the likelihood of us ceasing to be regulated as an SLHC, or whether cessation of SLHC status would have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. If we are successful in our efforts to cease being an SLHC, the means we use to deliver financial services and products to our customers will change, and the revenues and profitability of those offerings could be adversely impacted.HRB Bank is subject to extensive U.S. federal banking laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable banking laws and regulations, we could be subject to disciplinary actions, damages, penalties or restrictions that could significantly harm our business.HRB Bank is subject to regulation, examination, supervision, reporting requirements and enforcement by the OCC. The OCC can, among other things, issue cease-and-desist orders, assess civil money penalties and remove bank directors, officers or employees, for violations of banking laws and regulations or engaging in unsafe and unsound banking practices.HRB Bank is subject to OCC regulatory capital requirements. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements may trigger actions by regulators that could have a direct, material effect on HRB Bank. HRB Bank must meet specific capital guidelines involving quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. OCC regulations currently require HRB Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of tangible equity, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 capital. The laws and regulations imposed by U.S. federal banking regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized and expanding matters and concerns. For example, compliance with anti-money laundering and know-your-customer requirements, and the Bank Secrecy Act, has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to limit terrorism. There has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. Being subject to banking regulation may put us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors which are not subject to such requirements.The OCC could deem certain products offered by HRB Bank to be “unsafe and unsound” and require HRB Bank to discontinue offering such products. To the extent such products are instrumental in attracting clients to our offices for tax preparation services, H&R Block 2013 Form 10K11Table of Contentswe could experience a significant loss of clients should such products be discontinued. This could cause our revenues or profitability to decline.The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB to administer and enforce all U.S. federal consumer protection laws and expanded the role of state regulators with respect to consumer protection laws. Regulations promulgated by the CFPB or state regulators may affect our bank and financial services businesses in ways we cannot predict, which may require changes to our financial products, services and contracts.The Dodd-Frank Act also created the CFPB with broad powers to administer and enforce all U.S. federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, federal savings banks, and other financial services companies, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. HRB Bank does not currently have assets in excess of $10 billion.Although the CFPB has extensive rulemaking and enforcement powers that may impact our business operations, the potential reach of the CFPB's authority on the operations of banks and financial services companies offering consumer financial services or products, including our bank and financial services subsidiaries, is currently unknown. The CFPB may examine, and take enforcement actions against, our non-bank subsidiaries that provide consumer financial services and products. The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the role of state regulators in enforcing and promulgating consumer protection laws, the results of which could be states issuing new and broader consumer protection laws, some of which could be more comprehensive than U.S. federal regulations. New CFPB and state regulations may require changes to our financial products, services and contracts, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The nature of our tax service and product offerings requires timely product launches. Any significant delays in launching our tax service and product offerings, changes in government regulations or processes that affect how we provide such offerings to our clients, or significant problems with such offerings may harm our revenue, results of operations and reputation.Tax laws and tax forms are subject to change each year, and the nature and timing of any such changes are unpredictable. As a part of our business, we must incorporate any changes to tax laws and tax forms into our tax service and product offerings, including our H&R Block At Home® online tax services and tax preparation software. The unpredictable nature of changes to tax laws and tax forms can result in condensed development cycles for our tax service and product offerings because our clients expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of such offerings to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline and, in turn, receive any tax refund amounts on a timely basis. In addition, governmental authorities continually change their processes for accepting tax filings and related tax forms. Any changes in governmental regulations and processes that affect how we provide services and products to our clients may require us to make corresponding changes to our client service systems and procedures. Furthermore, any unanticipated changes in governmental processes for accepting tax filings and related forms, or the ability of taxing authorities to accept electronic tax return filings, may result in delays in processing our clients' tax filings, or delays in tax authorities accepting electronic tax return filings, and, in turn, delay any tax refund amounts to which such clients may be entitled. From time to time, we review and enhance our quality controls for assuring accurate tax returns that we prepare, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all inaccuracies.If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our services and products late in our development cycle it may cause us to delay the launch dates of our offerings. Any major defects or launch delays, or failure to anticipate changes in governmental processes accepting tax filings and related forms, may lead to loss of clients and revenue, negative publicity, client and employee dissatisfaction, a deterioration in our business relationships with our franchisees, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, exposure to litigation and increased operating expenses.We rely on a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key services or products, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Historically we have contracted, and in the future will likely continue to contract, with a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide support for our tax, financial and other services and products. In certain instances, we are vulnerable to vendor error, service inefficiencies, service interruptions or service delays; however, our sensitivity to any of these issues may be heightened (1) due to the seasonality of our business, (2) with respect to any vendor that we utilize for the provision of any such product or service that has specialized expertise, (3) with respect to any vendor which is a sole provider, or (4) with respect to any vendor whose indemnification obligations are limited or who does not have the financial capacity to satisfy its indemnification obligations. If such a vendor is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such a vendor are terminated or otherwise delayed because the vendor fails to perform adequately, is no longer in business, experiences shortages, or discontinues a certain product or service that we utilize, or if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services 12H&R Block 2013 Form 10KTable of Contentsand products quickly and cost-effectively, it could result in a material and adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The highly seasonal nature of our business presents financial risks and operational challenges, which if we fail to address could materially affect our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is highly seasonal, with the substantial portion of our revenue earned in the last four months of our fiscal year, which is the period from January through April of each year. The concentration of our revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of challenges for us, including but not limited to: (1) cash and resource management during the first eight months of our fiscal year, when we generally operate at a loss and incur fixed costs and costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season; (2) ensuring compliance with financial covenants under our debt agreements, particularly if the timing of our revenue generation deviates from this seasonal period; (3) the availability of a seasonal workforce, including tax professionals, and our ability to hire, train, and supervise these employees; (4) responding to changes in competitive conditions, including marketing, pricing, and new product offerings, which could affect our position during the tax season; (5) disruptions in a tax season, including any customer dissatisfaction issues, may not be timely discovered; and (6) ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations and service delivery during peak season. If we experience significant business disruptions during the tax season or if we are unable to satisfactorily address the challenges described above and related challenges associated with a seasonal business, we could experience a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We face substantial litigation in connection with our various business activities, and such litigation may damage our reputation, impair our product offerings or result in material liabilities and losses.We have been named and from time to time will likely continue to be named, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, actions or inquiries by state attorneys general, and other litigation arising in connection with our various business activities, including relating to our various service and product offerings. We also grant our franchisees a limited license to use our registered service marks and, accordingly, there is risk that one or more of the franchisees may be identified as being controlled by us. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions or failures to act by our franchisees. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion could also result from our subsidiaries' actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business prospects and cause the market price of our securities to decline.In addition, we have been sued, and certain of our competitors have been sued, in connection with the offering of different types of refund transfer products. A court issued a ruling, which is not subject to appellate review, that a competitor's specific version of a refund transfer product should be considered a loan, and subject to truth-in-lending and other related laws. Another competitor recently entered into a settlement agreement, subject to final court approval, involving similar claims. We believe there are factual and legal differences that distinguish us and our RAC product from that of our competitors. Revenues from our RAC product totaled $158 million in fiscal year 2013; any requirement that materially alters our offering of RACs, including limitations on the fees we charge or disclosure requirements that could reduce the demand for these products, could have a material adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our access to liquidity may be negatively impacted as disruptions in credit markets occur, if credit rating downgrades occur or if we fail to meet certain covenants. Funding costs may increase, leading to reduced earnings.We need liquidity to meet our off-season working capital requirements, to service debt obligations including refinancing of maturing obligations, and for other corporate purposes. Our access to and the cost of liquidity could be negatively impacted in the event of credit rating downgrades or if we fail to meet existing debt covenants. In addition, events could occur which could increase our need for liquidity above current levels.If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, the cost of debt under our existing financing arrangements, as well as future financing arrangements and borrowings under our commercial paper program, could increase and capital market access could decrease or become unavailable. Our unsecured committed line of credit (2012 CLOC) is subject to various covenants, and a violation of a covenant could impair our access to liquidity currently available through the 2012 CLOC. If current sources of liquidity were to become unavailable, we would need to obtain additional sources of funding, which may not be available or may only be available under less favorable terms. The continued payment of dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock are dependent on a number of factors, and future payments and repurchases cannot be assured.We need liquidity sufficient to fund payments of dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock. In addition, holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments, and our Board of Directors may only authorize the Company to repurchase shares of our common H&R Block 2013 Form 10K13Table of Contentsstock with funds legally available for such repurchases. The payment of future dividends and future repurchases will depend upon our earnings, economic conditions, liquidity and capital requirements and other factors, including our debt leverage. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurances that future dividends will be paid, or future repurchases will be made, at levels comparable to our historical practices, if at all. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, and the fact that our business is not asset-intensive, there may be periods of time during our fiscal year in which the payment of dividends or stock repurchases may cause us to have a negative net worth under GAAP, which, in turn, could create challenges in maintaining our credit ratings and our access to capital markets. See additional discussion regarding our provision of notice to the Federal Reserve prior to paying dividends or repurchasing shares in the risk factor related to the proposed Federal Reserve capital requirements.Our businesses may be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions, in particular, high unemployment levels.Difficult economic conditions are frequently characterized by high unemployment levels and declining consumer and business spending. These poor economic conditions may negatively affect demand and pricing for our services and products. Higher unemployment levels, especially within client segments we serve, may result in clients no longer being required to file tax returns, electing not to file tax returns, or clients seeking lower cost preparation and filing alternatives. Sustained levels of high unemployment may negatively impact our ability to increase or retain tax preparation clients.Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may result in deterioration in credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment and other loans, and such deterioration could have a negative impact on our business and profitability. The fair value of these mortgage loans is less than their carrying value and a decision by us to no longer hold these loans for investment would result in a significant impairment. The overall credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment is impacted by the strength of the U.S. economy and local economic conditions, including residential housing prices. Economic trends that negatively affect housing prices and the job market could result in deterioration in credit quality of our mortgage loan portfolio and a decline in the value of associated collateral. Future interest rate resets could also lead to increased delinquencies in our mortgage loans held for investment. Mortgage loans held by us are secured by properties concentrated in the states of Florida, New York and California, which represented 19%, 19% and 11%, respectively, of total mortgage loans held for investment at April 30, 2013. No other state held more than 10% of loan balances. If adverse trends in the residential mortgage loan market continue, particularly in geographic areas with a greater concentration of mortgage loans, we could incur additional loan loss provisions.Mortgage loans purchased from our affiliate, Sand Canyon Corporation, previously known as Option One Mortgage Corporation (including its subsidiaries, collectively, SCC) represent 57% of total loans held for investment at April 30, 2013. These loans have experienced higher delinquency rates than other loans, and may expose us to greater risk of credit loss.Mortgage loans held for investment had a carrying value of $338.8 million and a fair value of $210.9 million at April 30, 2013. Although we have no current intent to do so, if we decide to sell these mortgage loans in the future we would incur an impairment loss for the difference between carrying value and fair value at the time of sale.In addition to mortgage loans, we also extend secured and unsecured credit to other clients, including providing EAs to our tax clients. We may incur significant losses on credit we extend, which in turn could reduce our profitability.Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future services and products and is an important element in attracting new clients. In addition, our franchisees operate their businesses under our brands. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to events or activities attributed to us, our franchisees, employees or agents may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our services and products and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands.Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. Competitors may misappropriate our trademarks or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products which may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. To the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively through trademarks, patents or other means, other parties, including former employees, with knowledge of our intellectual property may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. In addition, third-parties may allege we are infringing on their intellectual property, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes 14H&R Block 2013 Form 10KTable of Contentsand, in that event, we could lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages.Failure to maintain sound business relationships with our franchisees may have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial success depends in significant part on our ability to maintain sound business relationships with our franchisees. The support of our franchisees is also critical for the success of our marketing programs and any new strategic initiatives we seek to undertake. Deterioration in our relationships with our franchisees or the failure of our franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our international operations are subject to increased risks which may harm our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.We currently have operations in Canada, Australia, India, and Brazil, and may consider expansion opportunities in additional countries in the future. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from these foreign operations and expand into other international markets, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: (1) changes in trade regulations; (2) difficulties in managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; (3) profit repatriation restrictions, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (4) geopolitical events, including acts of war and terrorism, and economic and political instability; (5) compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign laws; and (6) risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and may result in harm to our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.RISKS RELATING TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONSSCC is subject to potential contingent losses related to representation and warranty claims, which may have an adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. SCC has accrued an estimated liability related to these contingent losses that may not be adequate.SCC remains exposed to losses relating to mortgage loans it previously originated. Mortgage loans originated by SCC were sold either as whole loans to single third-party buyers or in the form of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBSs). In connection with the sale of loans or RMBSs, SCC made certain representations and warranties. These representations and warranties varied based on the nature of the transaction and the buyer's or insurer's requirements, but generally pertained to the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, borrower fraud, the loan's compliance with the criteria for inclusion in the transaction, including compliance with SCC's underwriting standards or loan criteria established by the buyer, ability to deliver required documentation, and compliance with applicable laws. SCC believes it would have an obligation to repurchase a loan or indemnify certain parties with respect to a claim for a breach of a representation and warranty only if such breach materially and adversely affects the value of the mortgage loan, or a securitization insurer's or certificate holder's interest in the mortgage loan, and the mortgage loan has not been liquidated, although there is limited and conflicting case law on the liquidated loan defense issue. Such claims together with any settlement arrangements related to these losses are collectively referred to as “representation and warranty claims.” The statute of limitations for a contractual claim to enforce a representation and warranty obligation is generally six years or such shorter limitations period that may apply under the law of a state where the economic injury occurred. SCC believes that the limitations period begins to run from the applicable closing date of the sale of the loans or RMBS, although there is limited and conflicting case law on this issue. During fiscal year 2013, SCC entered into tolling agreements with several parties to toll the running of any applicable statute of limitations related to potential representation and warranty claims and other claims against SCC. Development of loss estimates is subjective, subject to a high degree of management judgment, and estimates may vary significantly period to period. SCC records a liability for losses related to representation and warranty claims when those losses are believed to be both probable and reasonably estimable. Historically, SCC has developed its estimate of losses related to representation and warranty claims based primarily on projections of future claims on a loan-by-loan basis. As a result of counterparty activity occurring during the fourth quarter, SCC has reassessed its prior estimate for losses, placing greater emphasis on bulk settlement discussions involving counterparties subject to tolling agreements rather than projections of future claims on a loan-by-loan basis. The estimate is based on the best information currently available, significant management judgment, and a number of factors, including developments in case law and the factors mentioned in Item 7, “Critical Accounting Estimates,” that are subject to change. Changes in any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate.SCC has accrued a liability as of April 30, 2013 for estimated contingent losses arising from representation and warranty claims of $158.8 million. If future losses are in excess of SCC's accrued liability, those losses could have a material adverse effect on our H&R Block 2013 Form 10K15Table of Contentsbusiness and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as SCC's financial condition, operating results and cash flows are included in our consolidated financial statements. The accrued liability does not include potential losses related to litigation matters discussed in the risk factor below and in Item 8, note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Also see Item 8, note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.SCC is subject to potential contingent losses related to securitization transactions in which SCC participated as a depositor or loan originator, which may result in significant financial losses.Between January 2005 and November 2007, SCC participated in approximately 110 securitization transactions. In most of these securitization transactions, SCC agreed, subject to certain conditions and limitations, to indemnify the underwriters or depositors for certain losses and expenses that the underwriters or depositors may incur as a result of certain claims made against them relating to loans originated by SCC, including certain legal expenses the underwriters or depositors incur in their defense of such claims. Some of those underwriters and depositors are defendants in lawsuits where various other parties allege a variety of claims, including violations of U.S. federal and state securities law and common law fraud based on alleged materially inaccurate or misleading disclosures, arising out of the activities of such underwriters or depositors in their sale of RMBSs or mortgage loans. Based on information currently available to SCC, it believes that the 15 lawsuits in which notice of a claim for indemnification has been made involve original investments of approximately $14 billion. Because SCC is not party to these lawsuits (with the exception of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Bank of America Funding Corporation case discussed in Item 8, note 18) and does not have control of this litigation, SCC does not have precise information about the amount of damages or other remedies being asserted or the defenses to the claims in such lawsuits. Additional notices of claims for indemnification may be received by SCC in the future from underwriters or depositors who are subject to existing or new litigation. In addition, other counterparties to the securitization transactions, including certificate holders, securitization trustees and monoline insurance companies, have filed or may file lawsuits, or may assert indemnification claims, directly against depositors and loan originators in securitization transactions alleging a variety of claims, including U.S. federal and state securities law violations, common law torts and fraud and breach of contract, among others. Additional or new lawsuits may be filed against SCC in the future. These matters are in the early stages and SCC is not able to reasonably estimate the associated amount of any possible loss or range of loss. As a result, we have not accrued any liability related to these exposures. However, if SCC were required to pay material amounts with respect to these matters, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as SCC's financial condition, operating results and cash flows are included in our consolidated financial statements. See Item 8, note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.H&R Block has guaranteed the payment of certain limited claims against SCC.SCC is subject to representation and warranty claims by counterparties to SCC whole loan sales and securitization transactions, including certificate holders, securitization trustees and monoline insurance companies. In certain limited circumstances described below, H&R Block has outstanding guarantees of payment if claims are successfully asserted by such counterparties.These guarantees include representation and warranty claims with respect to a limited number of whole loan sales by SCC with an aggregate outstanding principal and liquidated amount of approximately $1.4 billion as of January 31, 2013, according to the most recent data available to SCC from its servicer. There have been a total of $33 million of representation and warranty claims with respect to these whole loan sales, of which $4 million were deemed valid and paid by SCC, representing significantly less than one percent of the original principal amount of such loans.These guarantees also cover limited representation and warranty claims on other outstanding securitization transactions, with a potential claims exposure of less than $200 million. In addition, as is customary in divestiture transactions, H&R Block guaranteed the payment of any indemnification claims from the purchaser of SCC's servicing business, including claims relating to pre-closing services (which closing occurred in 2008).If SCC were to become insolvent, we could be subject to claims by the unpaid creditors of SCC.As discussed above, SCC is subject to representation and warranty claims and other claims and litigation related to its past sales and securitizations of mortgage loans. It is likely that additional claims and proceedings will be made in the future. If the amount that SCC is ultimately required to pay with respect to these claims and litigation exceeds its net assets, the creditors of SCC, or a bankruptcy trustee if SCC were to file or be forced into bankruptcy, may attempt to assert claims against us for payment of SCC's obligations. We believe our legal position is strong on any potential corporate veil-piercing arguments; however, if this position is challenged and not upheld, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in certain limited instances, H&R Block guaranteed amounts as outlined in the above risk factor.16H&R Block 2013 Form 10KTable of ContentsITEM 1B