 for further information on the CFPB.See Item 7, under "Regulatory Environment," and Item 8, note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of regulatory requirements.FOREIGN REGULATIONS – We are also subject to a variety of other regulations in various foreign markets, including anti-corruption laws and regulations concerning privacy, data protection and data retention. Foreign regulations and laws potentially affecting our business are evolving rapidly. We rely on external counsel in the countries in which we do business to advise us regarding compliance with applicable laws and regulations. As our international operations grow, we continue to develop and enhance our internal legal and operational compliance programs that guide our businesses in complying with laws and regulations applicable in the countries in which we do business. SERVICE MARKS, TRADEMARKS AND PATENTSWe have made a practice of offering our services and products under service marks and trademarks and of securing registration for many of these marks in the U.S. and other countries where our services and products are marketed. We consider these service marks and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to our business, particularly our businesses providing services and products under the "H&R Block" brand. The initial duration of U.S. federal trademark registrations is 10 years. Most U.S. federal registrations can be renewed perpetually at 10-year intervals and remain enforceable so long as the marks continue to be used. We hold a small but growing patent portfolio that we believe is important to our overall competitive position, although we are not materially dependent on any one patent or particular group of patents in our portfolio at this time. Our patents have remaining terms generally ranging from one to 20 years.EMPLOYEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERSWe had approximately 2,200 regular full-time employees as of April 30, 2015. Our business is dependent on the availability of a seasonal workforce, including tax professionals, and our ability to hire, train, and supervise these employees. The highest number of persons we employed during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015, including these seasonal employees, was approximately 98,600.H&R Block, Inc. | 2015 Form 10-K9Table of ContentsInformation about our executive officers is as follows:Name, age Current position Business experience since May 1, 2010William C. Cobb,age 58 President and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2011; retired from eBay, Inc. in 2008, having worked there from November 2000 to March 2008, where he most recently served as President of eBay Marketplaces North America for four years; before that, he held several senior management positions, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of eBay International and Senior Vice President of Global Marketing.Gregory J. Macfarlane,age 45 Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer since June 2012; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ceridian Corporation from March 2007 until August 2011.Jeffrey T. Brown,age 56 Chief Accounting and Risk Officer Chief Accounting and Risk Officer since June 2012; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 2010 until June 2012; Interim Chief Financial Officer from May 2010 to September 2010; Vice President and Corporate Controller from March 2008 until September 2010.Thomas A. Gerke,age 59 Chief Legal Officer Chief Legal Officer (formerly titled Senior Vice President and General Counsel) since January 2012; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of YRC Worldwide from January 2011 until April 2011; Executive Vice Chairman, Century Link, Inc. from July 2009 until December 2010.Delos L. ("Kip") Knight, III,age 58 President, U.S. Retail Operations President, U.S. Retail Operations since October 2013; President, International and U.S. Franchise Operations from April 2012 until October 2013; President of KnightVision Marketing from August 2008 until April 2012. Prior to 2008, Mr. Knight held various positions at eBay, Yum! Restaurants International, PepsiCo and Procter & Gamble.Jason L. Houseworth,age 40 President, U.S. Tax Product Strategy and Development President, U.S. Tax Product Strategy and Development since April 2015; President, Global Digital and Product Management from May 2013 until April 2015; President, U.S. Tax Services from May 2012 until May 2013; Senior Vice President, Digital Tax Solutions from February 2011 until May 2012; Vice President, Technology from July 2008 until February 2011.AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATIONOur annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available, free of charge, through our website at www.hrblock.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers who file electronically with the SEC.The following corporate governance documents are posted on our website at www.hrblock.com:▪The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of H&R Block, Inc.;▪The Amended and Restated Bylaws of H&R Block, Inc.;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Board of Directors Independence Standards;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Audit Committee Charter;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Compensation Committee Charter;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Finance Committee Charter; and▪The H&R Block, Inc. Governance and Nominating Committee Charter.If you would like a printed copy of any of these corporate governance documents, please send your request to H&R Block, Inc., One H&R Block Way, Kansas City, Missouri 64105, Attention: Corporate Secretary.Information contained on our website does not constitute any part of this report.102015 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of ContentsITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business activities expose us to a variety of risks. Identification, monitoring and management of these risks are essential to the success of our operations and the financial soundness of H&R Block. Senior management and the Board of Directors, acting as a whole and through its committees, take an active role in our risk management process and have delegated certain activities related to the oversight of risk management to the Company's Risk Committee, which is comprised of senior managers of major businesses and control functions. The Risk Committee is responsible for identifying and monitoring risk exposures and leading the continued development of our risk management policies and practices. An investment in our securities involves risk, including the risk that the value of an investment may decline or that returns on that investment may fall below expectations. There are a number of significant factors that could cause actual conditions, events or results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond management's control or its ability to accurately estimate or predict, or that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the value of an investment in our securities.RISKS RELATING TO CONTINUING OPERATIONSIncreased competition for tax preparation clients could adversely affect our current market share and profitability. Offers of free tax preparation services could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.We provide both assisted and DIY tax preparation services and products and face substantial competition throughout our businesses. All categories in the tax preparation industry are highly competitive. In the assisted tax services category, there are a substantial number of tax return preparation firms and accounting firms offering tax return preparation services. Commercial tax return preparers are highly competitive with regard to price and service. In the DIY category, options include the use of traditional paper forms and various forms of digital electronic assistance, including online, mobile, and desktop software, all of which we offer. Our DIY services and products compete with a number of online and software companies, primarily on the basis of price and functionality. Individual tax filers may elect to change their tax preparation method, choosing from among various assisted and DIY offerings. Additionally, many tax return preparation firms are involved in providing RTs and other tax-related services and products. Intense price competition could result in a reduction of our market share, lower revenues, lower margins and lower profitability. U.S. federal and certain state taxing authorities, as well as taxing authorities in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, currently offer, or facilitate the offering of, tax return preparation and electronic filing options to taxpayers at no charge, and volunteer organizations prepare tax returns at no charge for low-income taxpayers. In addition, many of our competitors offer certain tax preparation services and products and electronic filing options at no charge. In order to compete, we offer certain free tax preparation services and products at no charge. We enabled the preparation of 676 thousand, 767 thousand and 663 thousand U.S. federal income tax returns in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, at no charge through the FFA. We also provided free Federal 1040EZ filings online and in retail offices in fiscal year 2013. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract clients or effectively ensure the migration of clients from our free tax service offerings to those for which we receive fees, and clients who have formerly paid for our tax service offerings may elect to use free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, or harm our ability to acquire and retain clients.Government tax authorities, volunteer organizations, and our direct competitors may also elect to expand free offerings in the future. From time to time U.S. federal and state governments have considered various proposals (often referred to as "Return-Free Filing" or "Pre-Populated Returns") through which the respective governmental taxing authorities would use taxpayer information provided by employers, financial institutions, and other payers to "pre-populate," prepare and calculate tax returns and distribute them to taxpayers. Under this approach, the taxpayer could then review and contest the return or sign and return it. Although the FFA has kept the federal government from becoming a direct competitor to our tax service offerings in the U.S., it fosters additional online competition and may cause us to lose significant revenue opportunities. We believe that governmental encroachment at both the U.S. federal and state levels, as well as comparable government levels in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could present a continued competitive threat to our business for the foreseeable future.See tax returns prepared statistics included in Item 7, under "Tax Services – Operating Statistics."H&R Block, Inc. | 2015 Form 10-K11Table of ContentsFailure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our clients' and employees' personal information could harm our brand and reputation and could result in significant fines, penalties, and damages.In the course of our business, we collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal client information and data, including tax return information, bank account numbers, and social security numbers. In addition, we collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. The Company holds some of this personal information and third parties execute some transactions utilizing this information. We use security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information, but unauthorized individuals or third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business measures, which could require us to notify affected clients or employees under applicable privacy laws and regulations. We employ contractors and temporary employees who may have access to the personal information of clients and employees or who may execute transactions in the normal course of their duties. While we conduct employee background checks, as allowed by law, and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these controls could be circumvented. Improper disclosure or use of our clients' or employees' personal information could result in damage to our brand and reputation, and actions required to remediate improper disclosures could be costly.We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, disclosure, and security of consumer and employee personal information, which have drawn increased attention from U.S. federal and state governments, as well as governmental authorities in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. In the U.S., the IRS generally requires a tax return preparer to obtain the prior written consent of the taxpayer to use or disclose the taxpayer's information for certain purposes other than tax return preparation. In addition, other regulations require financial service providers to adopt and disclose consumer privacy notices and provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to "opt-out" of having nonpublic personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third parties. Several jurisdictions have passed new laws in this area and it continues to be an area of interest across multiple jurisdictions. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with all of those interpretations and applications. In addition, changes in the U.S. federal and state regulatory requirements, as well as requirements imposed by governmental authorities in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in more stringent requirements and in a need to change business practices, including the types of information we can use and the manner in which we can use such information. Establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase costs or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.A security breach of our systems, or third party systems on which we rely, resulting in access to personal client information may adversely affect the demand for our services and products, our reputation, and financial performance.We offer a range of services and products to our clients, including assisted and DIY tax services and banking services provided by HRB Bank. Due to the nature of these services and products, we use multiple digital technologies to collect, transmit, and store high volumes of personal client information. Information security risks to companies that use digital technologies continue to increase due in part to the increased adoption of and reliance upon these technologies by companies and consumers. Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened due to a variety of factors including, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and related regulation, the increased sophistication of organized crime, cyber criminals and hackers, the prominence of our brand, our and our franchisees' extensive office footprint, our plans to continue to implement our DIY and mobile channel strategies, and our use of third party vendors. Cybersecurity risks may result from fraud or malice (a cyber attack), human error, or accidental technological failure. Cyber attacks are designed to electronically circumvent network security for malicious purposes including unlawfully obtaining personal client information, disrupting our ability to offer services, damaging our brand and reputation, stealing our intellectual property, and advancing social or political agendas. We face a variety of cyber attack threats including computer viruses, malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, social engineering, denial of service attacks, and other sophisticated attacks. We maintain multiple levels of protection in order to address or otherwise mitigate the risk of a security breach. We regularly test our systems to discover and address potential vulnerabilities. Cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a high priority for us. As risks and 122015 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of Contentsregulations continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Due to the structure of our business model, we also rely on our franchisees and other private and governmental third parties to maintain secure systems and respond to cybersecurity risks. Notwithstanding these efforts, there can be no assurance that a security breach, intrusion, or loss or theft of personal client information will not occur.A breach of our security measures or those of our franchisees or third parties on whom we rely, or other fraudulent activity, could result in unauthorized access to personal client information. If such an event were to occur, it could have serious short and long term negative consequences. Security breach remediation could require us to expend significant resources to notify or assist impacted clients, repair damaged systems, implement improved information security measures, and maintain client and business relationships. Other consequences could include reduced client demand for our services and products, reduced growth and profitability and negative impacts to future financial results, loss of our ability to deliver one or more services or products (e.g., inability to provide financial transaction services or to accept and process client credit card orders or tax returns), litigation, harm to our reputation and brands, fines, penalties, and other damages, and further regulation and oversight by U.S. federal, state, or foreign governmental agencies. A security breach or other unauthorized access to our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Stolen identity refund fraud could impede our clients' ability to timely and successfully file their tax returns and receive their tax refunds, and could diminish consumers' perceptions of the security and reliability of our products and services, resulting in negative publicity.Companies offering DIY tax preparation services have seen a rise in instances of criminals utilizing stolen information obtained through hacking, phishing, and other means of identity theft in order to electronically file fraudulent federal and state tax returns. As a result, an increasing number of taxpayers must complete additional forms and go through additional steps in order to report to appropriate authorities that their identities have been stolen and their tax returns were filed fraudulently. While we offer assistance in the refund recovery process and have introduced Tax Identity Shield℠ to help protect clients, stolen identity refund fraud could impede our clients' ability to timely and successfully file their returns and receive their tax refunds, and could diminish consumers' perceptions of the security and reliability of our products and services, resulting in negative publicity, despite there having been no breach in the security of our systems. In addition, if stolen identity refund fraud is perpetrated through our products or services, state or federal tax authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to process our clients' tax returns electronically. As a result, stolen identity refund fraud could harm our revenue, results of operations and reputation.In addition, our clients may access our services and products from personal or public computers and mobile devices and may install and use our H&R Block DIY desktop tax preparation software on their computers. As a result, a person with malicious intent could obtain user account and password information through hacking, phishing, or other means of cyber attack, in order to perpetrate stolen identity refund fraud and otherwise cause losses for our clients. It has been reported that a number of companies, including some in the tax return preparation industry, have recently experienced instances where criminals gained unauthorized and illegal access to their systems by using stolen identity information obtained from sources other than those companies. The unauthorized and illegal access to those systems was used by criminals to perpetrate a variety of crimes, including stolen identity refund fraud. We could experience this form of unauthorized and illegal access to our systems, despite there having been no breach in the security of our systems, which could negatively impact our clients and harm our revenue, results of operations and reputation. Additionally, if such unauthorized or illegal access occurs, we may be subject to claims and litigation by clients, non-clients, or governmental agencies. An interruption in our information systems, or those of our franchisees or a third party on which we rely, or an interruption in the internet, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We and our franchisees rely heavily upon communications and information systems and the internet to conduct our business. Our, and our franchisees', systems and operations are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from upgrades and maintenance, network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, cyber attacks involving the penetration of our network by hackers or other unauthorized users through computer H&R Block, Inc. | 2015 Form 10-K13Table of Contentsviruses and worms, malicious code, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, or information security breaches, other negative disruptions to the operation of the internet, and natural disasters. Any failure or interruption in our information systems, or information systems of our franchisees or a private or government third party on which we rely, or an interruption in the internet or other critical business capability, could negatively impact our business operations and increase our risk of loss. As our businesses are seasonal, our systems must be capable of processing high volumes during our peak periods. Therefore, service interruptions resulting from system or internet failures could negatively impact our ability to serve our clients, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.There can be no assurance that system or internet failures, or interruptions in critical business capabilities will not occur, or if they do occur that we, our franchisees or the private or governmental third parties on whom we rely, will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or communication systems interruptions or failures may not be adequate, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems or other critical business capabilities. The occurrence of any systems or internet failure, or business interruption, could negatively impact our ability to serve our clients, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Government initiatives that simplify tax return preparation or expedite refunds could reduce the need for our services as a third-party tax return preparer, and cause our revenues or results of operations to decline.Many taxpayers seek assistance from paid tax return preparers such as us not only because of the level of complexity involved in the tax return preparation and filing process, but also because of paid tax return preparers' ability to expedite refund proceeds under certain circumstances. From time to time, the IRS or members of Congress propose measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of federal tax returns, including preparation of tax returns directly by the IRS, and to provide additional assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns or expediting refunds. H&R Block is a member of the FFA, which provides the ability for low-income taxpayers to prepare and file their own federal tax return online for free. The IRS has been exploring the Real Time Tax System concept, which would require that documents (such as W-2s and 1099s) must be on file with the IRS prior to the taxpayer submitting their tax return. The objective of this concept would be to facilitate document matching such that it would reduce fraud and after-the-fact audits. The implementation of the Real Time Tax System would provide a foundation for the IRS preparation of tax returns and make the pre-populated return a more tangible possibility.In 2011, the U.S. Department of the Treasury completed a prepaid debit card pilot program designed to facilitate the refund process. HRB Bank also provides this type of service through its H&R Block Emerald Prepaid MasterCard®. Additionally, the IRS has in the past explored the possibility of allowing taxpayers to allocate a portion of their tax refund to pay tax preparation fees, which could reduce the demand for RTs, but the IRS has not advanced this initiative. Taxing authorities in various state, local, and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have also introduced measures seeking to simplify the preparation and filing of tax returns in their respective jurisdictions. The adoption or expansion of any measures that significantly simplify tax return preparation, expedite refunds, or otherwise reduce the need for a third-party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our services and products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Federal Reserve capital regulations impose various requirements and restrict our capital allocation strategies and we are therefore pursuing a strategy which would cause our Holding Companies to cease being SLHCs. If our Holding Companies were to cease being SLHCs, the means we use to deliver financial services and products to our customers and the revenues and profitability of those offerings could be adversely impacted.Our subsidiary, HRB Bank, is a federal savings bank. Our Holding Companies are SLHCs because they control HRB Bank.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to promulgate minimum capital requirements for SLHCs, including leverage and risk-based capital requirements that are no less stringent than those applicable to insured depository institutions at the time the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted. On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve approved the Basel III Capital Rules, which implement a revised definition of regulatory capital, a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement, and a higher minimum tier 1 capital requirement (Revised Capital Rules). The rule also requires certain levels of equity for the payment of dividends and bonuses, and amends the methodologies for risk-weighting assets. 142015 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of ContentsThe Revised Capital Rules became effective for us on January 1, 2015. See Item 1, "Regulation and Supervision - Bank and Holding Companies," for details of the new requirements.The Federal Reserve, the Holding Companies' primary banking regulator, has issued guidance set forth in Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 (March 27, 2009) regarding the payment of dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases by bank holding companies. Pursuant to Supervisory Letter SR 11-11 (July 21, 2011), the Federal Reserve has directed examiners to apply the principles of SR 09-4 to SLHCs. Pursuant to SR 09-4, we have committed to provide notice to the Federal Reserve prior to paying dividends or repurchasing shares.The Revised Capital Rules will require our Holding Companies to retain significant additional capital, even though HRB Bank has regulatory capital substantially above the "well capitalized" level. We do not foresee any regulatory flexibility in this regard in light of the Federal Reserve's views of the statutory requirements imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, while our current belief is that the Federal Reserve would permit dividends to continue at current levels as long as H&R Block, Inc. remains adequately capitalized (with a sufficient capital buffer) and HRB Bank remains well capitalized, the Federal Reserve will closely supervise and likely restrict our other capital allocation decisions, including stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other forms of strategic investment.On April 10, 2014, we entered into the P&A Agreement with BofI. In connection with the closing of the P&A Transaction, HRB Bank will convert into a national banking association, merge with and into Block Financial, surrender its bank charter, and cease to operate as a separate legal entity. At that time, our Holding Companies would no longer be SLHCs subject to regulatory oversight of the Federal Reserve or related regulatory capital requirements. See additional discussion in Item 1, under "Business," and Item 8, note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Although we are selling certain assets and liabilities and surrendering the charter of HRB Bank, we plan to continue to enhance our business by delivering financial services and products to our clients. In connection with the execution of the P&A Agreement, we plan to enter into certain other agreements with BofI concurrent with the closing of the Divestiture Transaction, including, without limitation a Program Management Agreement, including related product schedules (PMA), and a related Emerald Advance Receivables Participation Agreement (RPA). An operating subsidiary of the Company will provide certain marketing, servicing, and operational support to BofI with respect to such financial services and products. The obligations of the parties to complete the P&A Transaction and the other transactions discussed herein are subject to the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including, but not limited to: (1) receipt of all regulatory approvals necessary to consummate the entire Divestiture Transaction; (2) receipt of a required third party consent; and (3) the execution and delivery of the PMA and the RPA. We cannot be certain when or if the conditions to and other components of the P&A Transaction will be satisfied, or whether the P&A Transaction will be completed. In addition, there may be changes to the terms and conditions of the P&A Agreement, PMA, RPA, and other contemplated agreements as part of the regulatory approval process.HRB Bank is subject to extensive U.S. federal banking laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable banking laws and regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, damages, penalties, or restrictions that could significantly harm our business.As previously announced, we are pursuing the Divestiture Transaction, pursuant to which we will no longer be subject to regulation as an SLHC and HRB Bank would surrender its bank charter and cease to exist as a separate legal entity. However, there can be no assurance regarding the timing of consummation of the Divestiture Transaction, or whether the Divestiture Transaction will be consummated at all. Until such time as the Divestiture Transaction is consummated, HRB Bank remains subject to regulation, examination, supervision, reporting requirements, and enforcement by the OCC. The OCC can, among other things, issue cease-and-desist orders, assess civil money penalties, and remove bank directors, officers or employees, for violations of banking laws and regulations or engaging in activities it determines to be unsafe and unsound banking practices.HRB Bank is subject to OCC regulatory capital requirements. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements may trigger actions by regulators that could have a direct, material effect on HRB Bank. HRB Bank must meet specific capital requirements involving quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. OCC regulations currently require HRB Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of tangible equity, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 capital. H&R Block, Inc. | 2015 Form 10-K15Table of ContentsThe laws and regulations imposed by U.S. federal banking regulators generally involve restrictions and requirements in connection with a variety of technical, specialized, and expanding matters and concerns. For example, compliance with anti-money laundering, know-your-customer requirements, and the Bank Secrecy Act, has taken on heightened importance with regulators as a result of efforts to limit terrorism. There has been increased regulation with respect to the protection of customer privacy and the need to secure sensitive customer information. Being subject to banking regulation may put us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors which may not be subject to such requirements.The OCC could deem certain products offered by HRB Bank to be "unsafe and unsound" and require HRB Bank, or a third party on which we rely, to discontinue offering such products. The discontinuance of offering such products would result in a loss of revenues derived from such products and to the extent such products are instrumental in attracting clients to our offices for tax preparation services, we could experience a significant loss of clients should such products be discontinued. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB to administer and, in some cases, enforce U.S. federal consumer protection laws and expanded the role of state regulators with respect to consumer protection laws. Regulations promulgated by the CFPB or state regulators may affect our bank and financial services businesses in ways we cannot predict, which may require changes to our financial products, services, and contracts.The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB and gave it broad powers to administer, investigate compliance with, and, in some cases, enforce U.S. federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, federal savings banks, and other financial services companies, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive, or abusive" acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets and certain other companies not regulated by the federal bank regulators. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary federal bank regulators. HRB Bank does not currently have assets in excess of $10 billion.Although the CFPB has extensive rulemaking, investigative, and enforcement powers that could impact our business operations, the potential reach of the CFPB's authority on the operations of banks and financial services companies offering consumer financial services or products, including our bank and financial services subsidiaries, is still developing. The CFPB may examine, investigate, and take enforcement actions against our non-bank subsidiaries that provide consumer financial services and products. The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the role of state regulators in enforcing and promulgating consumer protection laws, the results of which could be states issuing new and broader consumer protection laws, some of which could be more comprehensive than U.S. federal regulations. New CFPB and state regulations may require changes to our financial products, services and contracts, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The nature of our tax service and product offerings requires timely product launches. Any significant delays in launching our tax service and product offerings, changes in government regulations or processes that affect how we provide such offerings to our clients, or significant problems with such offerings or the manner in which we provide them to our clients may harm our revenue, results of operations, and reputation.Tax laws and tax forms are subject to change each year, and the nature and timing of such changes are unpredictable. As a part of our business, we must incorporate any changes to tax laws and tax forms into our tax service and product offerings, including our online tax services and desktop tax preparation software. The unpredictable nature and timing of changes to tax laws and tax forms can result in condensed development cycles for our tax service and product offerings because our clients expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of such offerings to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline and, in turn, receive any tax refund amounts on a timely basis. In addition, governmental authorities regularly change their processes for accepting tax filings and related tax forms. Changes in governmental regulations and processes that affect how we provide services and products to our clients may require us to make corresponding changes to our client service systems and procedures. Furthermore, unanticipated changes in governmental processes for accepting tax filings and related forms, or the ability of taxing authorities to accept electronic tax return filings, may result in delays in processing our clients' tax filings, or delays in tax authorities accepting electronic tax return filings, and, in turn, delay any tax refund amounts to which such clients may be entitled. From time to time, we review and enhance our quality controls for preparing accurate tax returns, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all inaccuracies. Any significant delays in launching our tax service and 162015 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of Contentsproduct offerings, changes in government regulations or processes that affect how we provide such offerings to our clients, or significant problems with such offerings or the manner in which we provide them to our clients may harm our revenue, results of operations, and reputation.If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our systems, services or products, we may elect to delay or suspend our offerings. Any major defects or launch delays, or failure to anticipate changes in governmental processes for accepting tax filings and related forms, may lead to loss of clients and revenue, negative publicity, client and employee dissatisfaction, a deterioration in our business relationships with our franchisees, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, exposure to litigation, and increased operating expenses. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We rely on a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key services or products, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Historically, we have contracted, and in the future we will likely continue to contract, with a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key services or products for our tax, financial, and other services and products. One example of this type of reliance is our relationship with FIS and another is our expected relationship with BofI. In certain instances, we are vulnerable to vendor error, service inefficiencies, service interruptions, or service delays. Our sensitivity to any of these issues may be heightened (1) due to the seasonality of our business, (2) with respect to any vendor that we utilize for the provision of any product or service that has specialized expertise, (3) with respect to any vendor that is a sole provider, or (4) with respect to any vendor whose indemnification obligations are limited or that does not have the financial capacity to satisfy its indemnification obligations. Some of our vendors are subject to the oversight of regulatory bodies and, as a result, our product or service offerings may be affected by the actions or decisions of such regulatory bodies. Vendor failures could occur in various ways including (1) vendor error, (2) inability to meet our needs in a timely manner, or (3) termination or delay in the services or products provided by a vendor because the vendor failed to perform adequately, is no longer in business, experiences shortages, or discontinues a certain product or service that we utilize. If our vendors are unable to meet our needs and we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could result in a material and adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.The highly seasonal nature of our business presents financial risks and operational challenges, which, if not satisfactorily addressed, could materially affect our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our business is highly seasonal, with the substantial portion of our revenue earned in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. The concentration of our revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of challenges for us, including (1) cash and resource management during the first nine months of our fiscal year, when we generally operate at a loss and incur fixed costs and costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season, (2) ensuring compliance with financial covenants under our debt agreements, particularly if the timing of our revenue generation deviates from this seasonal period, (3) the availability of a seasonal workforce, including tax professionals, and our ability to hire, train, and supervise these employees, (4) responding to changes in competitive conditions, including marketing, pricing, and new product offerings, which could affect our position during the tax season, (5) disruptions in a tax season, including any customer dissatisfaction issues, which may not be timely discovered, and (6) ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations and service delivery during peak season. If we experience significant business disruptions during the tax season or if we are unable to satisfactorily address the challenges described above and related challenges associated with a seasonal business, we could experience a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We face substantial litigation in connection with our various business activities, and such litigation may damage our reputation, impair our product offerings, or result in material liabilities and losses.We have been named, and from time to time will likely continue to be named, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, actions or inquiries by state attorneys general, and other litigation arising in connection with our various business activities, including relating to our various service and product offerings. We H&R Block, Inc. | 2015 Form 10-K17Table of Contentsalso grant our franchisees a limited license to use our registered trademarks and, accordingly, there is risk that one or more of the franchisees may be identified as being controlled by us. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions or failures to act by our franchisees. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion could also result from our subsidiaries' or franchisees' actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business prospects and cause the market price of our securities to decline.In addition, we have been sued, and certain of our competitors have been sued, in connection with the offering of different types of RT products. Further, we have received an inquiry from the California Attorney General requesting information regarding our RT product. In a case involving one of our competitors, a California appellate court affirmed a trial court's ruling that the competitor's specific version of a RT product was subject to truth-in-lending and other related laws. Following the appellate court's ruling, the case was denied further appellate review. We believe there are differences that distinguish our RT product from the product that was the subject of the competitor's case described above. Revenues from our RT product totaled $171 million in fiscal year 2015; any requirement that materially alters our offering of RTs, including limitations on the fees we charge or disclosure requirements that could reduce the demand for these products, could have a material adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our access to liquidity may be negatively impacted as disruptions in credit markets occur, if credit rating downgrades occur, or if we fail to meet certain covenants. Funding costs may increase, leading to reduced earnings.We need liquidity to meet our off-season working capital requirements, to service debt obligations including refinancing of maturing obligations, and for general corporate purposes. Our access to and the cost of liquidity could be negatively impacted in the event of credit rating downgrades or if we fail to meet existing debt covenants. In addition, events could occur which could increase our need for liquidity above current levels.If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, the cost of debt under our existing financing arrangements, as well as future financing arrangements and borrowings under our commercial paper program, could increase and capital market access could decrease or become unavailable. Our unsecured committed line of credit (2012 CLOC) is subject to various covenants, and a violation of a covenant could impair our access to liquidity currently available through the 2012 CLOC. The 2012 CLOC includes provisions that allow for the issuance of equity to comply with the financial covenant calculations as a means to avoid a shortfall. If current sources of liquidity were to become unavailable, we would need to obtain additional sources of funding, which may not be available or may only be available under less favorable terms. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.The continued payment of dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock are dependent on a number of factors, and future payments and repurchases cannot be assured.We need liquidity sufficient to fund payments of dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock. In addition, holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments, and our Board of Directors may only authorize the Company to repurchase shares of our common stock with funds legally available for such repurchases. The payment of future dividends and future repurchases will depend upon our earnings, economic conditions, liquidity and capital requirements, and other factors, including our debt leverage. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurance that future dividends will be paid, or future repurchases will be made, at levels comparable to our historical practices, if at all. Due to the seasonal nature of our business and the fact that our business is not asset-intensive, there may be periods of time during our fiscal year in which the payment of dividends or stock repurchases may cause us to have a negative net worth under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). See additional discussion regarding our provision of notice to the Federal Reserve prior to paying dividends or repurchasing shares in the risk factor related to the Federal Reserve capital requirements.Our businesses may be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions, in particular, high unemployment levels.Difficult economic conditions are frequently characterized by high unemployment levels and declining consumer and business spending. These poor economic conditions may negatively affect demand and pricing for our services and products. Higher unemployment levels, especially within client segments we serve, may result in clients electing not 182015 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of Contentsto file tax returns or clients seeking lower cost preparation and filing alternatives. Sustained levels of high unemployment may negatively impact our ability to increase or retain tax preparation clients.Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may result in deterioration in credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment and other loans, and such deterioration could have a negative impact on our business and profitability. The fair value of these mortgage loans is less than their carrying value and a decision by us to no longer hold these loans for investment would result in a significant impairment. The overall credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment is impacted by the strength of the U.S. economy and local economic conditions, including residential housing prices. Economic trends that negatively affect housing prices and the job market could result in deterioration in credit quality of our mortgage loan portfolio and a decline in the value of associated collateral. Future interest rate resets could also lead to increased delinquencies in our mortgage loans held for investment.Mortgage loans held by us are secured by properties concentrated in the states of Florida, New York, and California, which represented 19%, 23% and 11%, respectively, of total mortgage loans held for investment as of April 30, 2015. No other state held more than 10% of loan balances. If adverse trends in the residential mortgage loan market were to occur, particularly in geographic areas with a greater concentration of mortgage loans, we could incur loan loss provisions.Mortgage loans purchased from Sand Canyon Corporation, previously known as Option One Mortgage Corporation (including its subsidiaries, collectively, SCC) represent 58% of total loans held for investment as of April 30, 2015. Remaining loans held for investment were originated by a third-party bank and purchased by us. Loans we purchased from SCC have experienced higher delinquency rates than other loans we purchased, and may expose us to greater risk of credit loss.Mortgage loans held for investment had a carrying value of $239 million and a fair value of $190 million as of April 30, 2015. Although we have no current intent to do so, if we decide to sell these mortgage loans in the future we would incur an impairment loss for the difference between carrying value and fair value at the time of sale.In addition to mortgage loans, we also extend secured and unsecured credit to other clients, including providing EAs to our tax clients. We may incur significant losses on credit we extend, which in turn could reduce our profitability.Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future services and products and is an important element in attracting new clients. In addition, our franchisees may operate their businesses under our brands. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to events or activities involving or attributed to us, our franchisees, employees, or agents or our services or products may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our services and products and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands.Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. Competitors may misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products which may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. To the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. In addition, third-parties may allege we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes and, in that event, we could lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty, or technology development expenses, suffer harm to our reputation, or pay significant monetary damages.H&R Block, Inc. | 2015 Form 10-K19Table of ContentsFailure to maintain sound business relationships with our franchisees may have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our financial success depends in significant part on our ability to maintain sound business relationships with our franchisees. The support of our franchisees is also critical for the success of our marketing programs and any new strategic initiatives we seek to undertake. Deterioration in our relationships with our franchisees or the failure of our franchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Our international operations are subject to risks which may harm our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.We have international operations, including in Canada, Australia, India, and Brazil, and may consider expansion opportunities in additional countries in the future. There is uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from new or emerging foreign operations and expand into other international markets. Additionally, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: (1) changes in trade regulations; (2) difficulties in managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; (3) profit repatriation restrictions, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (4) geopolitical events, including acts of war and terrorism, and economic and political instability; (5) compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable foreign anti-corruption laws; (6) compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those concerning privacy, and data protection and retention; and (7) risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion could increase our costs of doing business internationally and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.We may be adversely impacted by changes in corporate tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where our subsidiaries are organized and conduct their operations. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are organized and conduct their operations may change significantly as a result of political or economic factors beyond our control. Additionally, our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Our tax returns and other tax matters are periodically examined by tax authorities and governmental bodies, including the IRS, which may disagree with positions taken by us in determining our tax liability. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONSSCC is subject to potential contingent losses related to representation and warranty claims, which may have an adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. SCC has accrued an estimated liability related to these contingent losses that may not be adequate.SCC remains exposed to losses relating to mortgage loans it previously originated. Mortgage loans originated by SCC were sold either as whole loans to single third-party buyers or in the form of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBSs). In connection with the sale of loans or RMBSs, SCC made certain representations and warranties. Claims under these representations and warranties together with any settlement arrangements related to these losses are collectively referred to as "representation and warranty claims." These representations and warranties varied based on the nature of the transaction and the buyer's or insurer's requirements, but generally pertained to the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, borrower fraud, the loan's compliance with the criteria for inclusion in the transaction, including compliance with SCC's underwriting standards or loan criteria established by the buyer, ability to deliver required documentation, and compliance with applicable laws. Representations and 202015 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of Contentswarranties related to borrower fraud in whole loan sale transactions to institutional investors, which were generally securitized by such investors and represented approximately 68% of the disposal of loans originated in calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007, included a "knowledge qualifier" limiting SCC's liability to those instances where SCC had knowledge of the fraud at the time the loans were sold. Representations and warranties made in other sale transactions effectively did not include a knowledge qualifier as to borrower fraud. SCC believes it would have an obligation to repurchase a loan only if it breached a representation and warranty and such breach materially and adversely affects the value of the mortgage loan or certificate holder's interest in the mortgage loan. SCC also would assert that it has no liability for the failure to repurchase any mortgage loan that has been liquidated prior to a repurchase demand, as described more fully in Item 8, note 18 to the consolidated financial statementsThe statute of limitations for a contractual claim to enforce a representation and warranty obligation is generally six years or such shorter limitations period that may apply under the law of a state where the economic injury occurred. SCC believes that the limitations period begins to run from the applicable closing date of the sale of the loans or RMBS. On June 11, 2015, the New York Court of Appeals held in ACE Securities Corp. v. DB Structured Products, Inc., that the limitations period begins to run from the applicable closing date of the sale of the loans or RMBS. New York law governs many, though not all, of the transactions into which SCC entered. During fiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013, SCC entered into tolling agreements with counterparties that have made a significant majority of previously denied representation and warranty claims. These tolling agreements toll the running of any applicable statute of limitations related to potential lawsuits regarding representation and warranty claims and other claims against SCC. Development of loss estimates is subject to a high degree of management judgment and estimates may vary significantly period to period. SCC accrues a liability for losses related to representation and warranty claims when those losses are believed to be both probable and reasonably estimable. SCC has developed its estimate of losses related to representation and warranty claims based on the best information currently available, significant management judgment, and a number of factors that are subject to change, including developments in case law and the factors mentioned in Item 7, "Critical Accounting Estimates." Changes in any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate.SCC has accrued a liability as of April 30, 2015 for estimated contingent losses arising from representation and warranty claims of $149.8 million. If future losses are in excess of SCC's accrued liability, those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as SCC's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are included in our consolidated financial statements. The accrued liability does not include potential losses related to litigation matters discussed in the risk factor below and in Item 8, note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Also see Item 8, note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.SCC is subject to potential contingent losses related to securitization transactions in which SCC participated as a depositor or loan originator, which may result in significant financial losses.Between January 2005 and November 2007, SCC originated mortgage loans totaling approximately $80 billion. Mortgage loans originated by SCC were sold either as whole loans to single third-party buyers, who generally securitized such loans, or in the form of RMBSs. SCC estimates approximately 90% of the loans it originated in 2005, 2006, and 2007 were securitized in approximately 110 securitization transactions. In most of these securitization transactions, SCC agreed, subject to certain conditions and limitations, to indemnify the underwriters or depositors for certain losses and expenses that the underwriters or depositors may incur as a result of certain claims made against them relating to loans originated by SCC, including certain legal expenses the underwriters or depositors incur in their defense of such claims. Some of those underwriters and depositors are defendants in lawsuits where various other parties allege a variety of claims, including violations of U.S. federal and state securities law and common law fraud based on alleged materially inaccurate or misleading disclosures, arising out of the activities of such underwriters or depositors in their sale of RMBSs or mortgage loans. Based on information currently available to SCC, it believes that the 20 lawsuits in which notice of a claim for indemnification has been made involve 39 securitization transactions with original investments of approximately $14 billion (of which the outstanding principal amount is approximately $4 billion). Certain of the notices received included, and future notices may include, a reservation of rights, which are referred to as "reserved contribution rights," that encompasses a right of contribution which may become operative if indemnification is unavailable or insufficient to cover all of the losses and expenses involved. Because SCC has not been a party to these lawsuits (with the exception of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Bank of America H&R Block, Inc. | 2015 Form 10-K21Table of ContentsFunding Corporation case discussed in Item 8, note 17) and has not had control of this litigation or settlements thereof, SCC does not have precise information about the amount of damages or other remedies being asserted, the defenses to the claims in such lawsuits or the terms of any settlements of such lawsuits. SCC therefore cannot reasonably estimate the amount of potential losses or associated fees and expenses that may be incurred in connection with such lawsuits, which may be material. Additional lawsuits against the underwriters or depositors may be filed in the future, and SCC may receive additional notices of claims for indemnification or contribution from underwriters or depositors with respect to existing or new lawsuits or settlements of such lawsuits. In addition, other counterparties to the securitization transactions, including certificate holders, securitization trustees and monoline insurance companies, have filed or may file lawsuits, or may assert indemnification claims, directly against depositors and loan originators in securitization transactions alleging a variety of claims, including U.S. federal and state securities law violations, common law torts and fraud and breach of contract claims, among others. Additional or new lawsuits or claims may be filed or asserted against SCC in the future. These matters are in the early stages. We have not concluded that a loss related to any of these indemnification claims or reserved contribution rights is probable, have not accrued a liability for these claims or rights, and are not able to estimate a reasonably estimable possible loss or range of loss for these claims or rights. However, if SCC were required to pay material amounts with respect to these matters, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as SCC's financial condition, operating results, and cash flows are included in our consolidated financial statements. See Item 8, note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.H&R Block has guaranteed the payment of certain limited claims against SCC.SCC is subject to representation and warranty claims by counterparties to SCC whole loan sales and securitization transactions, including certificate holders, securitization trustees, monoline insurance companies, and subsequent purchasers of whole loans. In certain limited circumstances described below, H&R Block has outstanding guarantees of payment if claims are successfully asserted by such counterparties.These guarantees include representation and warranty claims with respect to a limited number of whole loan sales by SCC with an aggregate outstanding principal and liquidated amount of approximately $1.4 billion as of January 31, 2013, based on the most recent data available to SCC from the servicer. There have been a total of approximately $41 million of representation and warranty claims with respect to these whole loan sales.These guarantees also cover limited representation and warranty claims on other outstanding securitization transactions, with a potential claims exposure of less than $200 million. In addition, as is customary in divestiture transactions, H&R Block guaranteed the payment of any indemnification claims from the purchaser of SCC's servicing business, including claims relating to pre-closing services (which closing occurred in 2008).We could be subject to claims by the creditors of SCC.As discussed above, SCC is subject to representation and warranty claims and other claims and litigation related to its past sales and securitizations of mortgage loans. Additional claims and proceedings may be made in the future. If the amount that SCC is ultimately required to pay with respect to these claims and litigation, together with related administration and legal expense, exceeds its net assets, the creditors of SCC, or a bankruptcy trustee if SCC were to file or be forced into bankruptcy, may attempt to assert claims against us for payment of SCC's obligations. Claimants may also attempt to assert claims or seek payment directly from the Company even if SCC's assets exceed its liabilities. SCC's principal assets, as of April 30, 2015, total approximately $480 million and consist primarily of an intercompany note receivable and a deferred tax asset. We believe our legal position is strong on any potential corporate veil-piercing arguments; however, if this position is challenged and not upheld, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in certain limited instances, H&R Block guaranteed amounts as outlined in the above risk factor.ITEM 1B