, "Risk Factors," for further information on the CFPB and its recent actions.State Regulations. Certain states have privacy laws and regulations similar to the U.S. federal regulations described above. Most states also have data security breach notice laws which may require notice to impacted individuals and others if there is unauthorized access to certain nonpublic personal information. Several states require income tax return preparers to, among other things, register as a return preparer and comply with certain registration requirements such as testing and continuing education requirements. State regulations may also subject income tax return preparers to accuracy-related penalties in connection with the preparation of income tax returns, and may prohibit preparers from continuing to act as income tax return preparers if they engage in specified misconduct. Certain states have regulations and requirements relating to offering income tax courses. These requirements may include licensing, bonding and certain restrictions on advertising.Franchise Regulations. Many of the income tax return preparation offices operating in the U.S. under the name "H&R Block" are operated by franchisees. Our franchising activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the FTC, potential enforcement by the CFPB, and various state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. The FTC and various state laws require us to furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise disclosure document containing certain prescribed information. A number of states in which we are currently franchising regulate the sale of franchises and require registration of the franchise disclosure document with certain state authorities. We are currently operating under exemptions from registration in several of these states based on our net worth and experience. Substantive state laws regulating the franchisor/franchisee relationship presently exist in a large number of states, and bills have been introduced in Congress from time to time that would provide for federal regulation of the franchisor/franchisee relationship in certain respects. The state laws often limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competition provisions, the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise and the ability of a franchisor to designate sources of supply. From time to time, we may make appropriate amendments to our franchise disclosure document to comply with our disclosure obligations under U.S. federal and state laws.FOREIGN REGULATIONS – We are also subject to a variety of other regulations in various foreign markets, including anti-corruption laws, and regulations concerning privacy, data protection and data retention. Foreign regulations and laws potentially affecting our business are evolving rapidly. We rely on external counsel in the countries in which we do business to advise us regarding compliance with applicable laws and regulations. As our international operations grow, we continue to develop and enhance our internal legal and operational compliance programs that guide our businesses in complying with laws and regulations applicable in the countries in which we do business. H&R Block, Inc. | 2016 Form 10-K5Table of ContentsSERVICE MARKS, TRADEMARKS AND PATENTSWe have made a practice of offering our services and products under service marks and trademarks and of securing registration for many of these marks in the U.S. and other countries where our services and products are marketed. We consider these service marks and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to our business, particularly our businesses providing services and products under the "H&R Block" brand. The initial duration of U.S. federal trademark registrations is 10 years. Most U.S. federal registrations can be renewed perpetually at 10-year intervals and remain enforceable so long as the marks continue to be used. We hold a small but growing patent portfolio that we believe is important to our overall competitive position, although we are not materially dependent on any one patent or particular group of patents in our portfolio at this time. Our patents have remaining terms generally ranging from one to 20 years.EMPLOYEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERSWe had approximately 2,400 regular full-time employees as of April 30, 2016. Our business is dependent on the availability of a seasonal workforce, including tax professionals, and our ability to hire, train, and supervise these employees. The highest number of persons we employed during the fiscal year ended April 30, 2016, including these seasonal employees, was approximately 94,800.Information about our executive officers is as follows:Name, age Current position Business experience since May 1, 2011William C. Cobb,age 59 President and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2011; retired from eBay, Inc. in 2008, having worked there from November 2000 to March 2008, where he most recently served as President of eBay Marketplaces North America for four years; before that, he held several senior management positions, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of eBay International and Senior Vice President of Global Marketing.Tony G. Bowen,age 41 Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial Officer since May 2016; Vice President, U.S. Tax Services Finance from May 2013 through April 2016; Vice President, Digital GM from May 2012 until May 2013; Vice President, Digital CFO from July 2011 until May 2012; Assistant Vice President of Corporate Development from October 2009 until July 2011.Jeffrey T. Brown,age 57 Chief Accounting and Risk Officer Chief Accounting and Risk Officer since June 2012, retiring effective July 1, 2016; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 2010 until June 2012; Interim Chief Financial Officer from May 2010 to September 2010; Vice President and Corporate Controller from March 2008 until September 2010.Kathryn M. Collins,age 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer since May 2016; Chief Marketing Officer from October 2013 through April 2016; Vice President, Retail Marketing from July 2012 until October 2013; Vice President, Marketing Communications and Brand Management from January 2006 until July 2012. Prior to 2006, Ms. Collins held various positions at Lee Jeans, a division of VF Corporation.Thomas A. Gerke,age 60 General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer since May 2016; Chief Legal Officer (formerly titled Senior Vice President and General Counsel) from January 2012 through April 2016; Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of YRC Worldwide from January 2011 until April 2011; Executive Vice Chairman, Century Link, Inc. from July 2009 until December 2010.Jason L. Houseworth,age 41 Chief Innovation Officer Chief Innovation Officer (formerly titled Senior Vice President, Business Innovations) since May 2016; President, U.S. Tax Product Strategy and Development from April 2015 through May 2016; President, Global Digital and Product Management from May 2013 until April 2015; President, U.S. Tax Services from May 2012 until May 2013; Senior Vice President, Digital Tax Solutions from February 2011 until May 2012; Vice President, Technology from July 2008 until February 2011.Gregory J. Macfarlane,age 46 Senior Vice President, U.S. Retail Products and Operations Senior Vice President, U.S. Retail Products and Operations since May 2016; Chief Financial Officer from June 2012 through April 2016; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ceridian Corporation from March 2007 until August 2011.AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATIONOur annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available, free of charge, through our website at www.hrblock.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public 62016 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of Contentsmay read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers who file electronically with the SEC.The following corporate governance documents are posted on our website at www.hrblock.com:▪The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of H&R Block, Inc.;▪The Amended and Restated Bylaws of H&R Block, Inc.;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Board of Directors Independence Standards;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Audit Committee Charter;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Compensation Committee Charter;▪The H&R Block, Inc. Finance Committee Charter; and▪The H&R Block, Inc. Governance and Nominating Committee Charter.If you would like a printed copy of any of these corporate governance documents, please send your request to H&R Block, Inc., One H&R Block Way, Kansas City, Missouri 64105, Attention: Corporate Secretary.Information contained on our website does not constitute any part of this report.ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business activities expose us to a variety of risks. Identification, monitoring and management of these risks are essential to the success of our operations and the financial soundness of H&R Block. Senior management and the Board of Directors, acting as a whole and through its committees, take an active role in our risk management process and have delegated certain activities related to the oversight of risk management to the Company's Risk Committee, which is comprised of senior managers of major businesses and control functions. The Risk Committee is responsible for identifying and monitoring risk exposures and leading the continued development of our risk management policies and practices. An investment in our securities involves risk, including the risk that the value of that investment may decline or that returns on that investment may fall below expectations. There are a number of significant factors that could cause actual conditions, events or results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond management's control or its ability to accurately estimate or predict, or that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and the value of an investment in our securities.RISKS RELATING TO CONTINUING OPERATIONSIncreased competition for tax preparation clients could adversely affect our current market share and profitability. Offers of free tax preparation services could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.We provide both assisted and DIY tax preparation services and products and face substantial competition throughout our businesses. All categories in the tax return preparation industry are highly competitive. In the assisted tax services category, there are a substantial number of tax return preparation firms and accounting firms offering tax return preparation services. Commercial tax return preparers are highly competitive with regard to price and service. In the DIY category, options include the use of traditional paper forms and various forms of digital electronic assistance, including online and mobile applications, and desktop software, all of which we offer. Our DIY services and products compete with a number of online and software companies, primarily on price and functionality. Individual tax filers may elect to change their tax preparation method, choosing from among various assisted and DIY offerings. Technology advances quickly and in new and unexpected ways, and it is difficult to predict the manner in which these changes will impact the tax return preparation industry, the problems we may encounter in enhancing our products and services or the time and resources we may need to devote to the creation, support, and maintenance of technological enhancements. If we are slow to enhance our products, services, or technologies, or if our competitors are able to achieve results more quickly than us, we may fail to capture, or lose, a significant share of the market, especially in the DIY category. Additionally, we and many other tax return preparation firms are involved in providing one or more H&R Block, Inc. | 2016 Form 10-K7Table of Contentsof RTs, financial products and services, and other tax-related services and products, many of which are subject to regulatory scrutiny, litigation, and other risks. We can make no assurances that we will be able to offer, or continue to offer, all of these services and a failure to do so could negatively impact our financial results and ability to compete. Intense competition could result in a reduction of our market share, lower revenues, lower margins and lower profitability. U.S. federal, state and foreign governmental authorities in certain jurisdictions in which we operate currently offer, or facilitate the offering of, tax return preparation and electronic filing options to taxpayers at no charge, and certain volunteer organizations also prepare tax returns at no charge for low-income taxpayers. In addition, many of our competitors offer certain tax preparation services and products and electronic filing options at no charge. In order to compete, we may offer certain free tax preparation services and products at no charge. We enabled the preparation of 678 thousand, 676 thousand and 767 thousand U.S. federal income tax returns in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, at no charge through the FFA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract clients or effectively ensure the migration of clients from our free tax service offerings to those for which we receive fees, and clients who have formerly paid for our tax service offerings may elect to use free offerings instead. These competitive factors may diminish our revenue and profitability, or harm our ability to acquire and retain clients.Government tax authorities, volunteer organizations, and our direct competitors may also elect to expand free offerings in the future. From time to time U.S. federal and state governments have considered various proposals (often referred to as "Return-Free Filing" or "Pre-Populated Returns") through which the respective governmental taxing authorities would use taxpayer information provided by employers, financial institutions, and other payers to "pre-populate," prepare and calculate tax returns and distribute them to taxpayers. Under this approach, the taxpayer could then review and contest the return or sign and return it. While the FFA and other free options that are currently offered, or may be offered in the future, may reduce the perceived need for government tax service offerings, they foster additional online competition and may cause us to lose significant revenue opportunities. We believe that governmental encroachment at both the U.S. federal and state levels, as well as comparable government levels in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could present a continued competitive threat to our business for the foreseeable future.During fiscal year 2016, 23.2 million tax returns were prepared by and through H&R Block worldwide, a decline of 4.1% from 24.2 million tax returns in each of our fiscal years 2015 and 2014. U.S. tax returns prepared by and through H&R Block during the 2016 tax season, including those prepared by our franchisees and through our DIY solutions, constituted approximately 14% of an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) estimate of total individual income tax returns filed during the 2016 tax season, compared to approximately 15% in fiscal year 2015. See additional discussion in Item 7, under "Operating Statistics."Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our clients' and employees' personal information could harm our brand and reputation and could result in significant fines, penalties, and damages.In the course of our business, we collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal client information and data, including tax return information, financial account information, and social security numbers. In addition, we collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. The Company holds some of this personal information and third parties execute some transactions utilizing this information. We use security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information, but unauthorized individuals or third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business measures, which could require us to notify affected clients or employees under applicable privacy laws and regulations. In the normal course of their duties, some employees, contractors and temporary employees have access to the personal information of clients and employees or execute transactions requiring sensitive information. While we conduct employee background checks, as allowed by law, and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these controls could be circumvented. Improper disclosure or use of our clients' or employees' personal information could result in damage to our brand and reputation, and actions required to remediate improper disclosures could be costly.We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, disclosure, and security of consumer and employee personal information, which have drawn increased attention from U.S. federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. In the U.S., the IRS generally requires a tax return preparer to obtain the prior written consent of the taxpayer to use or disclose the taxpayer's information for certain purposes other than tax return preparation. In addition, other regulations require financial service providers to adopt 82016 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of Contentsand disclose their consumer privacy notice and generally provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to "opt-out" of having nonpublic personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third parties. Numerous jurisdictions have passed new laws related to the use and retention of consumer information and this area continues to be an area of interest for U.S. federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. All of these laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with all of those interpretations and applications. In addition, changes in U.S. federal and state regulatory requirements, as well as requirements imposed by governmental authorities in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in more stringent requirements and in a need to change business practices, including the types of information we can use and the manner in which we can use such information. Establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase our costs or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.A security breach of our systems, or third party systems on which we rely, resulting in unauthorized access to personal client information may adversely affect the demand for our services and products, our reputation, and financial performance.We offer a range of services and products to our clients, including assisted and DIY tax return preparation services and products, and financial products and services. Due to the nature of these services and products, we use multiple digital technologies to collect, transmit, and store high volumes of personal client information. Information security risks to companies that use digital technologies continue to increase due in part to the increased adoption of and reliance upon these technologies by companies and consumers. Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened due to a variety of factors including, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and related regulation, the increased sophistication of organized crime, cyber criminals and hackers, the prominence of our brand, our and our franchisees' extensive office footprint, our plans to continue to implement our DIY strategies for our online and mobile applications and our desktop software, and our use of third party vendors. Cybersecurity risks may result from fraud or malice (a cyber attack), human error, or accidental technological failure. Cyber attacks are designed to electronically circumvent network security for malicious purposes such as unlawfully obtaining personal client information, disrupting our ability to offer services, damaging our brand and reputation, stealing our intellectual property, and advancing social or political agendas. We face a variety of cyber attack threats including computer viruses, malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, social engineering, denial of service attacks, and other sophisticated attacks. We maintain multiple levels of protection in order to address or otherwise mitigate the risk of a security breach. We regularly test our systems to discover and address potential vulnerabilities. Due to the structure of our business model, we also rely on our franchisees and other private and governmental third parties to maintain secure systems and respond to cybersecurity risks. Cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a high priority for us. As risks and regulations continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Notwithstanding these efforts, there can be no assurance that a security breach, intrusion, or loss or theft of personal client information will not occur.A breach of our security measures or those of our franchisees or third parties on whom we rely, or other fraudulent activity, could result in unauthorized access to personal client information. If such an event were to occur, it could have serious short and long term negative consequences. Security breach remediation could require us to expend significant resources to notify or assist impacted clients, repair damaged systems, implement improved information security measures, and maintain client and business relationships. Other consequences could include reduced client demand for our services and products, loss of valuable intellectual property, reduced growth and profitability and negative impacts to future financial results, loss of our ability to deliver one or more services or products (e.g., inability to provide financial transaction services or to accept and process client credit card orders or tax returns), litigation, harm to our reputation and brands, fines, penalties, and other damages, and further regulation and oversight by U.S. federal, state, or foreign governmental authorities. A security breach or other unauthorized access to our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. H&R Block, Inc. | 2016 Form 10-K9Table of ContentsStolen identity refund fraud could impede our clients' ability to timely and successfully file their tax returns and receive their tax refunds, and could diminish consumers' perceptions of the security and reliability of our products and services, resulting in negative publicity. Increased governmental regulation to attempt to combat that fraud could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.Companies offering DIY tax preparation services have seen a rise in instances of criminals utilizing stolen information obtained through hacking, phishing, and other means of identity theft in order to electronically file fraudulent federal and state tax returns. As a result, an increasing number of taxpayers must complete additional forms and go through additional steps in order to report to appropriate authorities that their identities have been stolen and their tax returns were filed fraudulently. Though we offer assistance in the refund recovery process and offer our Tax Identity Shield® product to help protect clients, stolen identity refund fraud could impede our clients' ability to timely and successfully file their returns and receive their tax refunds, and could diminish consumers' perceptions of the security and reliability of our products and services, resulting in negative publicity, despite there having been no breach in the security of our systems. In addition, if stolen identity refund fraud is perpetrated through our products or services, state, federal or foreign tax authorities may refuse to allow us to continue to process our clients' tax returns electronically. As a result, stolen identity refund fraud could harm our revenue, results of operations and reputation.Federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate have taken action, and may in the future take additional action, in an attempt to combat stolen identity refund fraud, which may require changes to our systems and business practices, in ways that we cannot anticipate. These actions may have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.In addition, our clients may access our services and products from personal or public computers and mobile devices and may install and use our H&R Block DIY desktop tax preparation software on their computers. As a result, a person with malicious intent could obtain user account and password information from our clients through hacking, phishing, or other means of cyber attack, in order to perpetrate stolen identity refund fraud and otherwise cause losses for our clients. It has been reported that a number of companies, including some in the tax return preparation industry, have experienced instances where criminals gained unauthorized and illegal access to their systems by using stolen identity information obtained from sources other than those companies. The unauthorized and illegal access to those systems was used by criminals to perpetrate a variety of crimes, including stolen identity refund fraud. We could experience this form of unauthorized and illegal access to our systems, despite there having been no breach in the security of our systems, which could negatively impact our clients and harm our revenue, results of operations and reputation. Additionally, if such unauthorized or illegal access occurs, we may be subject to claims and litigation by clients, non-clients, or governmental agencies. An interruption in our information systems, or those of our franchisees or a third party on which we rely, or an interruption in the internet, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We and our franchisees rely heavily upon communications, networks, and information systems and the internet to conduct our business. These networks, systems, and operations are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from upgrades and maintenance, network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, cyber attacks involving the penetration of our network by hackers or other unauthorized users through computer viruses and worms, malicious code, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, or information security breaches, other negative disruptions to the operation of the internet, and natural disasters. As our businesses are seasonal, our systems must be capable of processing high volumes during our peak periods. Therefore, any failure or interruption in our information systems, or information systems of our franchisees or a private or government third party on which we rely, or an interruption in the internet or other critical business capability, could negatively impact our business operations and increase our risk of loss. There can be no assurance that system or internet failures, or interruptions in critical business capabilities will not occur, or, if they do occur, that we, our franchisees or the private or governmental third parties on whom we rely, will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or communication systems interruptions or failures may not be adequate in all circumstances, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems or other critical business capabilities. 102016 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of ContentsThe occurrence of any systems or internet failure, or business interruption could negatively impact our ability to serve our clients, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Government initiatives that modify tax return preparation requirements or expedite refunds could have an adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.From time to time, there are various initiatives seeking to modify the preparation and filing of federal tax returns, including preparation of tax returns directly by the IRS, and to provide additional assistance with respect to preparing and filing such tax returns or expediting refunds. H&R Block is a member of the FFA, which provides the ability for low-income taxpayers to prepare and file their own federal tax returns online for free. The IRS has been exploring the Real Time Tax System concept, which would require that documents (such as W-2s and 1099s) must be on file with the IRS prior to taxpayers submitting their tax returns. The objective of this concept would be to facilitate document matching such that it would reduce fraud and after-the-fact audits. The implementation of the Real Time Tax System would provide a foundation for the IRS preparation of tax returns and make the pre-populated return a more tangible possibility.The IRS has in the past explored the possibility of allowing taxpayers to allocate a portion of their tax refunds to pay tax preparation fees, which could reduce the demand for RTs, but the IRS has not advanced this initiative. Taxing authorities in various state, local, and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have also introduced measures seeking to modify the preparation and filing of tax returns in their respective jurisdictions. The adoption or expansion of any measures that significantly modify tax return preparation, expedite refunds, or otherwise reduce the need for a third-party tax return preparer could reduce demand for our services and products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB to administer and, in some cases, enforce U.S. federal financial consumer protection laws and expanded the role of state regulators with respect to consumer protection laws. Regulations promulgated by the CFPB or state regulators may affect our financial services businesses in ways we cannot predict, which may require changes to our financial products, services, and contracts.The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB and gave it broad powers to administer, investigate compliance with, and, in some cases, enforce U.S. federal financial consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of financial consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, federal savings banks, and other financial services companies, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive, or abusive" acts and practices. The CFPB may examine, investigate, and take enforcement actions against our subsidiaries that provide consumer financial services and products, as well as financial institutions and service providers upon which our subsidiaries rely to provide consumer financial services and products. The Dodd-Frank Act also expanded the role of state regulators in enforcing and promulgating financial consumer protection laws, the results of which could be states issuing new and broader financial consumer protection laws, some of which could be more comprehensive than existing U.S. federal regulations. New CFPB and state regulations may require changes to our financial products, services and contracts, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Examples of recent CFPB action include the following:▪On November 13, 2014, the CFPB issued proposed rules that would change the regulation of prepaid products. It is not clear when the CFPB will publish the final version of these rules, or what their content will be. If enacted as proposed, the rules would make prepaid cards subject to Federal Reserve Regulations E and Z, among other things, and would apply to the H&R Block Emerald Prepaid MasterCard®. It is possible that, depending on the form of the final rules, changes would be necessary to the H&R Block Emerald Prepaid MasterCard® to comply with the final rules, and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the revenue we derive from our H&R Block Emerald Prepaid MasterCard® program.▪On May 5, 2016, the CFPB issued a request for comments on its proposal to prohibit mandatory consumer arbitration clauses in consumer financial product contracts. We, and certain of our third party service providers, utilize consumer arbitration clauses in connection with all of our consumer financial services products. It is not clear when the CFPB will publish the final version of these rules, or what their content will be. It is possible that, if the CFPB issues final rules that prohibit our use of consumer arbitration clauses, the risk of litigation involving our consumer financial products could increase, and the revenue that we derive H&R Block, Inc. | 2016 Form 10-K11Table of Contentsfrom our consumer financial products could decline, as the result of adverse outcomes of litigation, increased volume of litigation, and the expense of defending such litigation.▪On June 2, 2016, the CFPB issued proposed rules that would change the regulation of many forms of consumer credit. It is not clear when the CFPB will publish the final version of these rules, or what their content will be. It is possible that the final rules, when enacted, could impact EAs. It is also possible that, depending on the form of the final rules, changes would be necessary to EAs to comply with the final rules, and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the revenue that we derive from EAs.The nature of our tax service and product offerings requires timely product launches. Any significant delays in launching our tax service and product offerings, changes in government regulations or processes that affect how we provide such offerings to our clients, or significant problems with such offerings or the manner in which we provide them to our clients may harm our revenue, results of operations, and reputation.Tax laws and tax forms are subject to change each year, and the nature and timing of such changes are unpredictable. As a part of our business, we must incorporate any changes to tax laws and tax forms into our tax service and product offerings, including our online tax services and desktop tax preparation software. The unpredictable nature and timing of changes to tax laws and tax forms can result in condensed development cycles for our tax service and product offerings because our clients expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of such offerings to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline and, in turn, receive any tax refund amounts on a timely basis. In addition, governmental authorities regularly change their processes for accepting tax filings and related tax forms. Further, changes in governmental administrations could result in a delay of the start of the tax season or in further and unanticipated changes in regulations or processes. Changes in governmental regulations and processes that affect how we provide services and products to our clients may require us to make corresponding changes to our client service systems and procedures. Furthermore, unanticipated changes in governmental processes for accepting tax filings and related forms, or the ability of taxing authorities to accept electronic tax return filings, may result in delays in our processing of our clients' tax filings, or delays in tax authorities accepting electronic tax return filings, and, in turn, delay any tax refund amounts to which such clients may be entitled. From time to time, we review and enhance our quality controls for preparing accurate tax returns, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all inaccuracies. Any significant delays in launching our tax service and product offerings, changes in government regulations or processes that affect how we provide such offerings to our clients, or significant problems with such offerings or the manner in which we provide them to our clients may harm our revenue, results of operations, and reputation.If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our systems, services or products, we may elect to delay or suspend our offerings. Any major defects or launch delays, or failure to anticipate changes in governmental processes for accepting tax filings and related forms, may lead to loss of clients and revenue, negative publicity, client and employee dissatisfaction, a deterioration in our business relationships with our franchisees, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, exposure to litigation, and increased operating expenses. Any of the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.The Company is subject to additional federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations that affect the Company, including, without limitation, in the areas of franchise, labor, advertising, consumer products, payment processing, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety, insurance, and healthcare. There have been significant new regulations and heightened focus by the government in some of these areas, including, for example, the Affordable Care Act and the Department of Labor amendments to the overtime and exemption regulations of the Fair Labor Standards Act. There may be additional regulatory actions or enforcement priorities, or new interpretations of existing requirements that differ from ours. These developments could impose unanticipated limitations or require changes to our business, which may make elements of our business more expensive, less efficient, or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future services or products, which effects may be heightened given the nature, broad geographic scope, and seasonality of our business.122016 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of ContentsWe rely on a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key services or products, and the inability of these key vendors to meet our needs could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Historically, we have contracted, and in the future we will likely continue to contract, with a single vendor or a limited number of vendors to provide certain key services or products for our tax, financial, and other services and products. Two examples of this type of reliance are our relationships with FIS, for data processing and card production services, and BofI, as discussed in Item 1. In certain instances, we are vulnerable to vendor error, service inefficiencies, service interruptions, or service delays. Our sensitivity to any of these issues may be heightened (1) due to the seasonality of our business, (2) with respect to any vendor that we utilize for the provision of any product or service that has specialized expertise, (3) with respect to any vendor that is a sole or exclusive provider, or (4) with respect to any vendor whose indemnification obligations are limited or that does not have the financial capacity to satisfy its indemnification obligations. Some of our vendors are subject to the oversight of regulatory bodies and, as a result, our product or service offerings may be affected by the actions or decisions of such regulatory bodies. Vendor failures could occur in various ways including (1) vendor error, (2) inability to meet our needs in a timely manner, or (3) termination or delay in the services or products provided by a vendor because the vendor fails to perform adequately, is no longer in business, experiences shortages, or discontinues a certain product or service that we utilize. If our vendors are unable to meet our needs and we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could result in a material and adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.The specialized and highly seasonal nature of our business presents financial risks and operational challenges, which, if not satisfactorily addressed, could materially affect our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Success in our industry depends on our ability to attract, develop, and retain key personnel in a timely manner, including members of our executive team, and those in seasonal tax preparation positions or with other required specialized expertise, including technical positions. The market for such personnel is extremely competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain the required personnel within necessary timeframes. If we are unable to attract, develop, and retain key personnel, our business, operations and financial results could be negatively impacted.Our business is highly seasonal, with the substantial portion of our revenue earned in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. The concentration of our revenue-generating activity during this relatively short period presents a number of challenges for us, including (1) cash and resource management during the first nine months of our fiscal year, when we generally operate at a loss and incur fixed costs and costs of preparing for the upcoming tax season, (2) ensuring compliance with financial covenants under our unsecured committed line of credit (2015 CLOC), particularly if the timing of our revenue generation deviates from this seasonal period, (3) the availability of a seasonal workforce, including tax professionals, and our ability to attract, hire, train, supervise, motivate, and retain these employees, (4) responding to changes in competitive conditions, including marketing, pricing, and new product offerings, which could affect our position during the tax season, (5) disruptions in a tax season, including any customer dissatisfaction issues, which may not be timely discovered, and (6) ensuring optimal uninterrupted operations and service delivery during peak season. If we experience significant business disruptions during the tax season or if we are unable to satisfactorily address the challenges described above and related challenges associated with a seasonal business, we could experience a loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We face litigation in connection with our various business activities, and current or future litigation may damage our reputation, impair our product offerings, or result in material liabilities and losses.We have been named, and from time to time will likely continue to be named, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, actions or inquiries by state attorneys general, and other litigation arising in connection with our various business activities, including relating to our various service and product offerings. We also grant our franchisees a limited license to use our registered trademarks and, accordingly, there is risk that one or more of the franchisees may be identified as being controlled by us. Third parties, regulators or courts may seek to hold us responsible for the actions or failures to act by our franchisees. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could cause our earnings to decline. Negative public opinion could also result from H&R Block, Inc. | 2016 Form 10-K13Table of Contentsour subsidiaries' or franchisees' actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business prospects and cause the market price of our securities to decline.In addition, we have been sued, and certain of our competitors have been sued, in connection with the offering of different types of RT products. Further, we have received an inquiry from the California Attorney General requesting information regarding our RT product. In a case involving one of our competitors, a California appellate court affirmed a trial court's ruling that the competitor's specific version of a RT product was subject to truth-in-lending and other related laws. Following the appellate court's ruling, the case was denied further appellate review. We believe there are differences that distinguish our RT product from the product that was the subject of the competitor's case described above. Revenues from our RT product totaled $165 million in fiscal year 2016; any requirement that materially alters our offering of RTs, including limitations on the fees we charge or disclosure requirements that could reduce the demand for these products, could have a material adverse impact on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our access to liquidity may be negatively impacted as disruptions in credit markets occur, if credit rating downgrades occur, or if we fail to meet certain covenants. Funding costs may increase, leading to reduced earnings.We need liquidity to meet our off-season working capital requirements, to service debt obligations including refinancing of maturing obligations, and for general corporate purposes. Our access to and the cost of liquidity could be negatively impacted in the event of credit rating downgrades or if we fail to meet existing financial covenants. In addition, events could occur which could increase our need for liquidity above current levels.If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, the cost of debt under our existing financing arrangements, as well as future financing arrangements, could increase and capital market access could decrease or become unavailable. Our 2015 CLOC is subject to various covenants, and a violation of a covenant could impair our access to liquidity currently available through the 2015 CLOC. The 2015 CLOC includes provisions that allow for the issuance of equity to comply with the financial covenant calculations as a means to avoid a shortfall. If current sources of liquidity were to become unavailable, we would need to obtain additional sources of funding, which may not be available or may only be available under less favorable terms. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.The continued payment of dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock are dependent on a number of factors, and future payments and repurchases cannot be assured.We need liquidity sufficient to fund payments of dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock. In addition, holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments, and our Board of Directors may only authorize the Company to repurchase shares of our common stock with funds legally available for such repurchases. The payment of future dividends and future repurchases will depend upon our earnings, economic conditions, liquidity and capital requirements, and other factors, including our debt leverage. Accordingly, we cannot make any assurance that future dividends will be paid, or future repurchases will be made, at levels comparable to our historical practices, if at all. Due to the seasonal nature of our business and the fact that our business is not asset-intensive, there may be periods of time during our fiscal year in which the payment of dividends or stock repurchases may cause us to have a negative net worth under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). Our businesses may be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions, in particular, high unemployment levels.Difficult economic conditions are frequently characterized by high unemployment levels and declining consumer and business spending. These poor economic conditions may negatively affect demand and pricing for our services and products. In the event of difficult economic conditions that include high unemployment levels, especially within client segments we serve, clients may elect not to file tax returns or seek lower cost preparation and filing alternatives. Sustained levels of high unemployment may negatively impact our ability to increase or retain tax preparation clients.142016 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of ContentsEconomic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market may result in deterioration in credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment and other loans, and such deterioration could have a negative impact on our business and profitability. The fair value of these mortgage loans is less than their carrying value and a decision by us to no longer hold these loans for investment would result in a significant impairment. The overall credit quality of mortgage loans held for investment is impacted by the strength of the U.S. economy and local economic conditions, including residential housing prices. Economic trends that negatively affect housing prices and the job market could result in deterioration in credit quality of our mortgage loan portfolio and a decline in the value of associated collateral. Future interest rate resets could also lead to increased delinquencies in our mortgage loans held for investment.Mortgage loans purchased from Sand Canyon Corporation, previously known as Option One Mortgage Corporation (including its subsidiaries, collectively, SCC) represent 59% of total loans held for investment as of April 30, 2016. Remaining loans held for investment were originated by a third-party bank and purchased by us. Loans we purchased from SCC have experienced higher delinquency rates than other loans we purchased, and may expose us to greater risk of credit loss.Mortgage loans held for investment had a carrying value of $202 million and a fair value of $191 million as of April 30, 2016. If we decide to sell these mortgage loans we would incur an impairment loss for the difference between carrying value and fair value.In addition to mortgage loans held for investment, we also purchase a participation interest in EAs originated by BofI. We may incur significant losses on those loans, which in turn could reduce our profitability.Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future services and products and is an important element in attracting new clients. In addition, our franchisees may operate their businesses under our brands. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to events or activities involving or attributed to us, our franchisees, employees, or agents or our services or products, which may be enhanced due to the nature of social media, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our services and products and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands.Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third party allegations of infringement may be costly. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. Our intellectual properly could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyber attack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third parties. To the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. Competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products. Any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand, and may adversely affect our ability to compete. In addition, third-parties may allege we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes and, in that event, we could lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty, or technology development expenses, suffer harm to our reputation, or pay significant monetary damages.Failure to maintain sound business relationships with our franchisees may have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our financial success depends in significant part on our ability to maintain sound business relationships with our franchisees. The support of our franchisees is also critical for the success of our marketing programs and any new strategic initiatives we seek to undertake. Deterioration in our relationships with our franchisees or the failure of our H&R Block, Inc. | 2016 Form 10-K15Table of Contentsfranchisees to support our marketing programs and strategic initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.Our international operations are subject to risks which may harm our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.We have international operations, including in Canada, Australia, and India, and may consider expansion opportunities in additional countries in the future. There is uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from new or emerging foreign operations and expand into other international markets. Additionally, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: (1) changes in trade regulations; (2) difficulties in managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; (3) profit repatriation restrictions, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (4) geopolitical events, including acts of war and terrorism, and economic and political instability; (5) compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable foreign anti-corruption laws; (6) compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those concerning privacy, and data protection and retention; and (7) risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion could increase our costs of doing business internationally and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.We may be adversely impacted by changes in corporate tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where our subsidiaries are organized and conduct their operations. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are organized and conduct their operations may change significantly as a result of political or economic factors beyond our control. Additionally, our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Our tax returns and other tax matters are periodically examined by tax authorities and governmental bodies, including the IRS, which may disagree with positions taken by us in determining our tax liability. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONSSCC is subject to potential contingent losses related to representation and warranty claims, which may have an adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. SCC has accrued an estimated liability related to these contingent losses that may not be adequate.SCC remains exposed to losses relating to mortgage loans it previously originated. Mortgage loans originated by SCC were sold either as whole loans to single third-party buyers or in the form of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBSs). In connection with the sale of loans or RMBSs, SCC made certain representations and warranties. Claims under these representations and warranties together with any settlement arrangements related to these losses are collectively referred to as "representation and warranty claims." These representations and warranties varied based on the nature of the transaction and the buyer's or insurer's requirements, but generally pertained to the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, borrower fraud, the loan's compliance with the criteria for inclusion in the transaction, including compliance with SCC's underwriting standards or loan criteria established by the buyer, ability to deliver required documentation, and compliance with applicable laws. Representations and warranties related to borrower fraud in whole loan sale transactions to institutional investors, which were generally securitized by such investors and represented approximately 68% of the disposal of loans originated in calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007, included a "knowledge qualifier" limiting SCC's liability to those instances where SCC had knowledge of the fraud at the time the loans were sold. Representations and warranties made in other sale transactions effectively did not include a knowledge qualifier as to borrower fraud. SCC believes it would have an obligation to 162016 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of Contentsrepurchase a loan only if it breached a representation and warranty and such breach materially and adversely affects the value of the mortgage loan or certificate holder's interest in the mortgage loan. The statute of limitations for a contractual claim to enforce a representation and warranty obligation is generally six years or such shorter limitations period that may apply under the law of a state where the economic injury occurred. On June 11, 2015, the New York Court of Appeals, New York's highest court, held in ACE Securities Corp. v. DB Structured Products, Inc., that the six-year statute of limitations under New York law starts to run at the time the representations and warranties are made, not the date when the repurchase demand was denied. This decision applies to claims and lawsuits brought against SCC where New York law governs. New York law governs many, though not all, of the transactions into which SCC entered. However this decision would not affect representation and warranty claims and lawsuits SCC has received or may receive, for example, where the statute of limitations has been tolled by agreement or a suit was timely filed. It is possible that in response to the statute of limitations rulings in the ACE case and similar rulings in other state and federal courts, parties seeking to pursue representation and warranty claims or lawsuits with respect to trusts where the statute of limitations for representation and warranty claims against the originator has run, may seek to distinguish certain aspects of the ACE decision, pursue alternate legal theories of recovery, or assert claims against other contractual parties such as securitization trustees. For example, a recent ruling by a New York intermediate appellate court allowed a counterparty to pursue litigation on additional loans in the same trust even though only some of the loans complied with the condition precedent of timely pre-suit notice and opportunity to cure or repurchase. The impact on SCC, if any, from alternative legal theories seeking to avoid or distinguish the ACE decision, or judicial limitations on the ACE decision, is unclear.SCC entered into tolling agreements with counterparties that made a significant portion of previously denied representation and warranty claims. While these tolling agreements remain in effect, they toll the running of any applicable statute of limitations related to potential lawsuits regarding representation and warranty claims and other claims against SCC. Development of loss estimates is subject to a high degree of management judgment and estimates may vary significantly period to period. SCC accrues a liability for losses related to representation and warranty claims when those losses are believed to be both probable and reasonably estimable. SCC has developed its estimate of losses related to representation and warranty claims based on the best information currently available, significant management judgment, and a number of factors that are subject to change, including developments in case law and the factors mentioned in Item 7, "Critical Accounting Estimates." Changes in any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate.SCC has accrued a liability as of April 30, 2016, for estimated contingent losses arising from representation and warranty claims of $65.3 million. If future losses are in excess of SCC's accrued liability, those losses could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as SCC's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are included in our consolidated financial statements. Except where specified, the accrued liability does not include potential losses related to litigation matters discussed in the risk factor below and in Item 8, note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Also see Item 8, note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.SCC is subject to potential contingent losses related to securitization transactions in which SCC participated as a depositor or loan originator, which may result in significant financial losses.Between January 2005 and November 2007, SCC originated mortgage loans totaling approximately $80 billion. Mortgage loans originated by SCC were sold either as whole loans to single third-party buyers, who generally securitized such loans, or in the form of RMBSs. SCC estimates approximately 90% of the loans it originated in 2005, 2006, and 2007 were securitized in approximately 110 securitization transactions. In most of these securitization transactions, SCC agreed, subject to certain conditions and limitations, to indemnify the underwriters or depositors for certain losses and expenses that the underwriters or depositors may incur as a result of certain claims made against them relating to loans originated by SCC, including certain legal expenses the underwriters or depositors incur in their defense of such claims. Some of those underwriters and depositors are defendants in lawsuits where various other parties allege a variety of claims, including violations of U.S. federal and state securities law and common law fraud based on alleged materially inaccurate or misleading disclosures, arising out of the activities of such underwriters or H&R Block, Inc. | 2016 Form 10-K17Table of Contentsdepositors in their sale of RMBSs or mortgage loans. Based on information currently available to SCC, it believes that the 22 lawsuits in which notice of a claim for indemnification has been made involve 39 securitization transactions with original investments of approximately $14 billion (of which the outstanding principal amount is approximately $4 billion). Certain of the notices received included, and future notices may include, a reservation of rights, which are referred to as "reserved contribution rights," that encompasses a right of contribution which may become operative if indemnification is unavailable or insufficient to cover all of the losses and expenses involved. Securitization trustees also are, or have been, involved in lawsuits related to securitization transactions in which SCC participated. Plaintiffs in these lawsuits allege, among other things, that originators, depositors, servicers or other parties breached their representations and warranties or otherwise failed to fulfill their obligations, including that securitization trustees breached their contractual obligations, breached their fiduciary duties, or violated statutory requirements by failing to properly protect the certificate holders’ interests.Because SCC has not been a party to these lawsuits (with the exception of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Bank of America Funding Corporation, et al., filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois (Case No. 10CH45033), and settled as to SCC in August 2015, and has not had control of the litigation or settlements thereof, SCC does not have precise information about the amount of damages or other remedies being asserted, the defenses to the claims in such lawsuits, or the terms of any settlements of such lawsuits. SCC therefore cannot reasonably estimate the amount of potential losses or associated fees and expenses that may be incurred in connection with such lawsuits, which may be material. Additional lawsuits against the underwriters, depositors, or securitization trustees may be filed in the future, and SCC may receive additional notices of claims for indemnification or contribution from underwriters, depositors, or securitization trustees with respect to existing or new lawsuits or settlements of such lawsuits. In addition, other counterparties to the securitization transactions, including certificate holders and monoline insurance companies, have filed or may file lawsuits, or may assert indemnification claims, directly against depositors and loan originators in securitization transactions alleging a variety of claims, including U.S. federal and state securities law violations, common law torts and fraud and breach of contract claims, among others. Additional or new lawsuits or claims may be filed or asserted against SCC in the future. We have not concluded that a loss related to any of these indemnification claims or reserved contribution rights is probable, have not accrued a liability for these claims or rights, and are not able to estimate a reasonably estimable possible loss or range of loss for these claims or rights. However, if SCC were required to pay material amounts with respect to these matters, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as SCC's financial condition, operating results, and cash flows are included in our consolidated financial statements. See Item 8, note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.H&R Block has guaranteed the payment of certain limited claims against SCC.SCC is subject to representation and warranty claims by counterparties to SCC whole loan sales and securitization transactions, including certificate holders, securitization trustees, monoline insurance companies, and subsequent purchasers of whole loans. In certain limited circumstances described below, H&R Block has outstanding guarantees of payment if claims are successfully asserted by such counterparties.These guarantees include representation and warranty claims with respect to a limited number of whole loan sales by SCC with an aggregate outstanding principal and liquidated amount of approximately $1.0 billion as of April 30, 2016, based on the data available to SCC. There have been a total of approximately $41 million of representation and warranty claims with respect to these whole loan sales.These guarantees also cover limited representation and warranty claims on other outstanding securitization transactions, with a potential claims exposure of less than $200 million. In addition, as is customary in divestiture transactions, H&R Block guaranteed the payment of any indemnification claims from the purchaser of SCC's servicing business, including claims relating to pre-closing services (closing occurred in 2008).We could be subject to claims by the creditors of SCC.As discussed above, SCC is subject to representation and warranty claims and other claims and litigation related to its past sales and securitizations of mortgage loans. Additional claims and proceedings may be made in the future. If 182016 Form 10-K | H&R Block, Inc.Table of Contentsthe amount that SCC is ultimately required to pay with respect to these claims and litigation, together with related administration and legal expense, exceeds its net assets, the creditors of SCC, or a bankruptcy trustee if SCC were to file or be forced into bankruptcy, may attempt to assert claims against us for payment of SCC's obligations. Claimants may also attempt to assert claims or seek payment directly from the Company even if SCC's assets exceed its liabilities. SCC's principal assets, as of April 30, 2016, total approximately $386 million and consist primarily of an intercompany note receivable. We believe our legal position is strong on any potential corporate veil-piercing arguments; however, if this position is challenged and not upheld, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in certain limited instances, H&R Block guaranteed amounts as outlined in the above risk factor.ITEM 1B