Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be
    read in conjunction, with those risk factors. Forward-looking
    statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions
    of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
    and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended, and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by
    law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further
    developments or information obtained after the date of filing of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the
    date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS.





 



    HARRIS





    Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an
    international communications and information technology company
    that applies a solutions approach to serving government and
    commercial markets in more than 150 countries. Our mission is to
    be the best-in-class global provider of mission critical
    assured
    communications®
    products, systems and services for global markets, including
    defense communications and electronics, government
    communications, broadcast communications and wireless
    transmission network solutions.


 


    Harris was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the successor to
    three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal executive
    offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne,
    Florida 32919, and our telephone number is (321) 727-9100.
    Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
    the symbol “HRS.” On August 22, 2008, we employed
    approximately 16,300 people. Unless the context otherwise
    requires, the terms “we,” “our,”
    “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as
    used in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    refer to Harris Corporation and its subsidiaries.


 



    General





    We report our financial results for fiscal 2008 in the following
    four business segments:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our Defense Communications and Electronics segment, which was
    comprised of our (i) RF Communications and
    (ii) Defense Programs businesses;








     
        • 

    
    Our Government Communications Systems segment, which was
    comprised of our (i) Civil Programs, (ii) National
    Intelligence Programs and (iii) IT Services businesses;








     
        • 

    
    Our Broadcast Communications segment, which was comprised of our
    (i) Infrastructure and Networking Solutions,
    (ii) Media and Workflow and (iii) Television and Radio
    Transmission Systems businesses; and








     
        • 

    
    Our Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. (“Harris Stratex
    Networks”) segment (formerly Microwave Communications),
    which was comprised of our (i) North America Microwave,
    (ii) International Microwave and (iii) Network
    Operations businesses.





 


    As discussed further in Note 23: Business Segments
    in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this
    Annual Report on Form
    10-K (the
    “Notes”), effective for fiscal 2008 (which began
    June 30, 2007), our Defense Programs business (part of our
    Government Communications Systems segment for fiscal
    2007) was combined with our RF Communications business, and
    the combined business is reported as our Defense Communications
    and Electronics segment for fiscal 2008. Our Broadcast
    Communications and Harris Stratex Networks segments
    did not



    
    1



Table of Contents




    change as a result of these adjustments to our organizational
    structure. The historical results, discussion and presentation
    of our business segments as set forth in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    reflect the impact of these adjustments to our organizational
    structure for all periods presented in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    As described in greater detail below under “Item 1.
    Business — Description of Business by Segment for
    Fiscal 2008 — Harris Stratex Networks,” in the
    third quarter of fiscal 2007, we combined our former Microwave
    Communications Division with Stratex Networks, Inc.
    (“Stratex”), a publicly-traded provider of high-speed
    wireless transmission systems, to form a new company named
    Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. As of June 27, 2008, we owned
    approximately 56 percent of Harris Stratex Networks’
    outstanding stock. Following the combination, our business
    segment formerly referred to as Microwave Communications is
    referred to as Harris Stratex Networks and includes the results
    of the combined businesses for periods following the
    combination. Financial information with respect to all of our
    other activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the
    operating segments or discontinued operations, is reported as
    part of Headquarters Expense or Non-Operating Income (Loss).


 


    Each of our business segments has been organized on the basis of
    specific communications markets. Each business segment has its
    own marketing, engineering and product service and maintenance
    organizations. Broadcast Communications and Harris Stratex
    Networks have their own separate manufacturing operations.
    Defense Communications and Electronics and Government
    Communications Systems have both separate and shared
    manufacturing operations. We manufacture most of the finished
    products we sell.


 


    On August 5, 2008, we announced that we would report our
    financial results for fiscal 2009 (which began June 28,
    2008) in the following four business segments:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our RF Communications segment;








     
        • 

    
    Our Government Communications Systems segment, which will be
    comprised of our (i) Defense Programs, (ii) National
    Intelligence Programs, (iii) Civil Programs and
    (iv) IT Services businesses;








     
        • 

    
    Our Broadcast Communications segment, which will be comprised of
    our (i) Infrastructure and Networking Solutions,
    (ii) Media and Workflow and (iii) Television and Radio
    Transmission Systems businesses; and








     
        • 

    
    Our Harris Stratex Networks segment, which will be comprised of
    our (i) North America Microwave, (ii) International
    Microwave and (iii) Network Operations businesses.





 


    Our segment reporting structure for fiscal 2009 reflects that
    our RF Communications business (part of our Defense
    Communications and Electronics segment for fiscal
    2008) will be reported as its own separate segment for
    fiscal 2009, and that our Defense Programs business (the other
    part of our Defense Communications and Electronics segment for
    fiscal 2008) will be reported as part of our Government
    Communications Systems segment for fiscal 2009, together with
    that segment’s existing businesses (National Intelligence
    Programs, Civil Programs and IT Services). Our Broadcast
    Communications and Harris Stratex Networks segments will not
    change as a result of the adjustments to our segment reporting
    structure. These adjustments to our segment reporting take
    effect in fiscal 2009 and therefore do not affect the historical
    results, discussion or presentation of our business segments as
    set forth in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    We will begin to report our financial results consistent with
    this new segment reporting structure beginning with the first
    quarter of fiscal 2009 and we will conform our historical
    segment reporting accordingly.


 


    Our total revenue was approximately $5.3 billion in fiscal
    2008 compared with approximately $4.2 billion in fiscal
    2007. Total revenue in the United States increased
    23 percent from fiscal 2007 while international revenue,
    amounting to 24 percent of our total revenue in fiscal
    2008, increased 33 percent from fiscal 2007. Our net income
    was $444.2 million in fiscal 2008 compared with
    $480.4 million in fiscal 2007.


 



    Financial
    Information About Our Business
    Segments





    Financial information with respect to our business segments,
    including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets,
    and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is
    contained in Note 23: Business Segments in the Notes
    and is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Description
    of Business by Segment for Fiscal
    2008


 



    Defense
    Communications and Electronics





    For fiscal 2008, Defense Communications and Electronics was
    comprised of our RF Communications and Defense Programs
    businesses. These two businesses have developed significant
    technology-based capabilities that are directly targeted to a
    diverse base of U.S. and international defense customers
    and their continuing needs for more complex, secure
    communications and information technology networks.



    
    2



Table of Contents




    RF Communications:  We offer to the global
    tactical radio market a comprehensive line of highly secure
    software-defined radio products and systems for manpack,
    handheld, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard
    applications, supporting our customers’ critical missions.
    These radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and
    capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. Our
    Falcon®
    family of tactical radios includes the Falcon
    II®
    secure high-frequency, very high-frequency, ultra high-frequency
    and multiband handheld, manpack and vehicular radio systems; the
    Falcon
    III®
    multiband, multimode, multimission handheld, manpack, vehicular
    and high-capacity data radios; and the Secure Personal Radio.
    These radios are built on a platform that is reprogrammable to
    add features or software upgrades, addressing the increasing
    need for an integrated high-frequency, very high-frequency and
    ultra high-frequency communications system. The platform also
    provides interconnectivity among land-based and wireless
    communications media. These radios also have military-strength
    embedded encryption and can be linked to computers, providing
    network capabilities on the battlefield. Our Falcon II and
    Falcon III radios are being installed on new Mine Resistant
    Ambush Protected (“MRAP”) vehicles for the
    U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force. In fiscal
    2008, we received an order from the U.S. Army to supply
    Falcon II high-frequency vehicular radio systems for High
    Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicles (“HMMWVs”) and
    other vehicles. We also announced in fiscal 2008 that the
    U.S. Army is installing Joint Tactical Radio System
    (“JTRS”)-approved Falcon III handheld radios in
    Shadow 200 Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (“UAVs”) to serve
    as critical links in a relay system to extend significantly the
    communications capabilities of ground forces operating in
    obstructed line-of-sight environments.


 


    The Falcon III is the next-generation family of
    software-defined tactical radios which have been developed to
    address the JTRS requirements. Falcon III radios provide
    multimode capability, including secure, ultra high-frequency
    ground-to-ground line-of-sight communications, close-air
    support, and long-range tactical satellite communications, as
    well as programmable encryption. Falcon III radios offer
    operational flexibility by addressing a full range of evolving
    mission requirements, including backwards compatibility and
    interoperability with legacy systems, such as Single Channel
    Ground and Airborne Systems (“SINCGARS”), and are
    software upgradeable to incorporate new waveforms as they are
    developed. The AN/PRC-152 Falcon III multiband handheld is
    the first widely fielded tactical radio to be certified without
    waivers by the Joint Program Executive Office (“JPEO”)
    as fully compliant with the JTRS Software Communications
    Architecture (“SCA”). The Falcon III handheld
    radio also has been certified by the National Security Agency
    (“NSA”) for the protection of voice and data traffic
    up through the TOP SECRET/SCI level. In fiscal 2007, we
    introduced the Falcon III multiband, multimission, manpack
    tactical radio, which combines traditional multiband radio
    features with new capabilities such as extended frequency range
    to 2 gigahertz, commercial L-Band satellite communications
    (“SATCOM”) and wideband mobile ad hoc networking, and
    we received certification from the NSA for the Falcon III
    manpack in fiscal 2008. The Falcon III manpack is the first
    wideband networking radio to utilize the JTRS SCA and receive
    NSA Type 1 certification for the protection of voice and data
    traffic up through the TOP SECRET level. In July 2008, the
    Falcon III manpack became the first manpack radio with
    wideband networking capability to be certified as SCA-compliant
    by the JTRS JPEO. In fiscal 2007, we also introduced the very
    small Secure Personal Radio that delivers secure, tactical
    digital communications to individual soldiers, and a
    high-capacity, line-of-site (“HCLOS”) data radio. The
    HCLOS data radio is a lightweight broadband Ethernet system that
    can securely transmit encrypted Internet Protocol
    (“IP”) traffic over distances greater than
    50 kilometers under clear line-of-sight conditions in fixed
    point-to-point and 20 kilometers in point-to-multipoint
    configurations, and can support throughput in excess of 80
    megabits per second in a military application of
    802.16 WiMax technology for high-speed IP data
    communications, providing ground troops the ability to send
    secure, high-bandwidth data between command posts and
    forward-operating bases.


 


    We are a leader in multiband frequency radios, which allow
    operators to perform multiple functions on different frequency
    bands, eliminating the need and inconvenience of carrying
    multiple radios. This capability has become increasingly
    important to global military and peacekeeping forces as they
    upgrade communications for joint missions. This capability is
    also important for different Federal, state and local
    authorities confronting difficulty in communicating directly
    with one another during emergency operations, due to the large
    number of frequency bands and technologies used in today’s
    two-way land mobile radio communications systems, without
    relying on additional infrastructure or radio gateway equipment.
    Introduced in fiscal 2008, our new RF-1033M Multiband Multimode
    Land Mobile Radio delivers true real-time interoperable
    communications to address this difficulty by providing direct,
    secure multi-agency communications across multiple frequency
    bands (very high-frequency and ultra
    high-frequency
    bands) in a single portable radio for the growing public safety,
    homeland security and first responder markets. The RF-1033M
    Multiband Multimode Land Mobile Radio is a rugged,
    mission-critical communications platform for joint operations,
    built to the same standards as our proven military tactical
    radio products, and features true software-defined radio
    architecture, which provides flexibility and capacity for future
    growth while protecting our customers’ investments with
    software-enabled technology migrations. In July 2008, we
    introduced the
    Unitytm
    XG-100 land
    mobile radio, the newest product in a family of multiband
    software-defined radios that will give



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Federal, state and local public safety responders the ability to
    communicate using a single radio across multiple frequencies
    with virtually any agency responding to an emergency. The Unity
    XG-100 expands on the capabilities of the RF-1033M and extends
    the covered frequency range to include the 700/800 megahertz
    bands.


 


    We also develop cryptographic solutions for markets with
    demanding communications security requirements, utilizing
    security algorithms that meet a wide range of applications
    and/or
    country needs to address unique privacy requirements of
    customers (whether a government agency or supplier or a
    commercial manufacturer) and providing NSA-certified products
    and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major
    communications systems. Our
    Sierratm
    II cryptographic subsystem is a miniaturized programmable module
    that can be integrated into radios and other voice and data
    communications devices to encrypt classified information prior
    to transmission and storage. Our encryption modules currently
    meet or exceed the highest security standards established by the
    U.S. Government. Sierra II can be used for tactical
    radios, wireless local area networks (“WLANs”), remote
    sensors, guided munitions and UAVs. We also offer the
    Citadel®
    cryptographic engine, which provides military-grade,
    Type IV encryption, enabling low-cost, exportable
    encryption for our family of Falcon II radios. Our secure
    WLAN (“SWLAN”) solution, SecNet
    11®
    Plus, is certified by the NSA’s Commercial COMSEC
    Endorsement Program (“CCEP”) and enables military and
    government users to communicate multimedia information,
    including data, voice and video, through a secure wireless
    network at 11 megabits per second. Our SecNet
    54tm
    family of IP communications encryption products, designed to
    keep data, voice and video communications secure, is comprised
    of a modular architecture that includes a cryptographic module
    that provides all security-critical functions and companion
    modules that provide both wired and wireless communications of
    encrypted data over specific protocols. In fiscal 2007, we
    received Type 1 certification from the NSA for the SecNet 54
    SWLAN product line, which enables very high data rate
    transmission of sensitive defense communications over wireless
    infrastructures in applications such as tactical operations
    centers. In fiscal 2008, we received certification of the SecNet
    54 Ethernet module (“EMOD”) which enables secure
    transmission of sensitive communications over wired Ethernet
    connections.


 


    We also provide unmanned ground sensor systems, which are a
    force-multiplier solution with a network of easily deployable,
    remotely located products that detect movement of personnel and
    vehicles. Our Falcon
    Watchtm
    remote intrusion detection and surveillance systems are fully
    integrated with our Falcon radios and are designed for
    surveillance and monitoring of high-value assets such as troop
    encampments, airfields, base installations, supply routes and
    depots. In larger networks these systems also can be used to
    monitor and protect national borders, regional boundaries and
    assets in homeland defense and peacekeeping operations. These
    sensor systems can be comprised of remote, battery-operated,
    wireless sensors using seismic, magnetic
    and/or
    passive infra-red detectors; relays; Falcon tactical radios; and
    sensor management application software.


 


    Global market demand for our advanced tactical radio solutions
    continued to increase at strong growth rates in fiscal 2008,
    driving positive results for this segment. Deployment of
    advanced communications capabilities continues to be a top
    priority in the U.S. and globally, driven by modernization
    programs, force expansion, force restructuring and modularity,
    interoperability required in the growing number of NATO-led
    peacekeeping and disaster-relief missions, and the increasing
    desire for network-centric communications that will
    significantly improve situational awareness and force
    effectiveness through communications superiority. In fiscal
    2008, we responded to requirements for our Falcon family of
    radios from a broad base of U.S. Government customers,
    including the U.S. Army, Marine Corps, Navy and Air Force.
    Internationally, our radios are the standard of NATO and
    Partnership for Peace countries. In fiscal 2008, we received
    orders from,
    and/or made
    deliveries to, a wide range of international customers in
    countries including Albania, Algeria, Armenia, Brunei, Bulgaria,
    Chad, Denmark, Estonia, Ethiopia, Georgia, Iraq, Jamaica,
    Kazakhstan, Kenya, Malaysia, Norway, Pakistan, the Philippines,
    the Republic of Niger, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain,
    Tajikistan, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates and the United
    Kingdom.


 


    In May 2007, we were awarded an Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite
    Quantity (“IDIQ”) contract with a maximum value of
    $422 million from the U.S. Army for Falcon II
    high-frequency manpack tactical radios and related vehicular and
    base station systems. We received an initial $104 million
    order against the contract in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.
    In June 2007, we were awarded the Consolidated Interim Single
    Channel Handheld Radio (“CISCHR”) IDIQ contract by the
    JTRS JPEO to supply the U.S. Department of Defense
    (“DoD”) with JTRS-approved Falcon III multiband
    handheld tactical radios and vehicular systems. The CISCHR
    contract has a one-year maximum value of $2.7 billion and a
    five-year maximum value of approximately $7 billion
    (including additional options that may be exercised over a
    five-year period). Under the CISCHR contract, orders are awarded
    based on competitive bidding between us and another supplier,
    and we received orders under the CISCHR contract in fiscal 2008
    for the U.S. Marine Corps and Air Force. In fiscal 2008, we
    also received orders under the $212 million Tactical
    Handheld Radio (“THHR”) IDIQ contract awarded in July
    2007 by the U.S. Marine Corps to support MRAP and other
    tactical vehicles. In June 2008, we were awarded
    $118 million in orders to supply the U.S. Marine Corps
    with Falcon II multiband manpack radios under a new
    $350 million IDIQ contract that is part of the Marine



    
    4



Table of Contents




    Corps’ Strategic Radio Plan, which will transition the
    Marine Corps from legacy single-band radios to multiband,
    multimission software-defined radios.


 


    Defense Programs:  We develop, supply and
    integrate communications and information processing products,
    systems and networks for diverse aerospace, terrestrial and
    maritime applications, in support of the ongoing transformation
    of communications for U.S. and international customers to
    network-centric architectures that support real-time situational
    awareness in combat conditions. Our technologies are providing
    advanced battlespace networking capabilities to assure timely
    and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic,
    operational and tactical boundaries in support of the DoD’s
    full spectrum of war fighting, intelligence and business
    missions. Our major technology areas include satellite
    communications terminals for mobile ground, fixed-site and
    shipboard applications; large, deployable satellite antenna
    reflectors; flat-panel, phased-array and single-mission
    antennas; aviation electronics for military jets and
    helicopters, including radios, digital maps, modems, sensors,
    data buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed
    data links and data networks for wireless communications and
    smart weapons. For example, our high-speed digital Common Data
    Link (“CDL”) system called Hawklink, which is designed
    for the U.S. Navy’s Light Airborne Multi-Purpose
    System (“LAMPS”) helicopters, transmits tactical
    video, radar, acoustic and other sensor data from the
    helicopters to their host surface ships at distances greater
    than 100 nautical miles and at data rates exceeding 21 megabits
    per second.


 


    We also provide high-speed secure wireless network solutions and
    phased-array capabilities for wireless transmission systems and
    are developing network-centric communications system
    architectures and technologies that will link sensors,
    platforms, weapons and soldiers using open architectures and
    mobile ad hoc networking capabilities. Our mobile ad hoc
    networking capability allows the military to take its
    communications infrastructure with it, creating mobile,
    self-forming and self-healing communications links across the
    battlefield. For example, our Highband Networking Radio
    (“HNR”), released in fiscal 2007, provides the
    military with fully mobile, wireless, long-range, high-bandwidth
    communications on-the-move by establishing line-of-sight
    connectivity between users of widely dispersed local area
    networks (“LANs”) using a Harris-developed waveform
    that automatically selects the best communications path
    available.


 


    Major ongoing previously awarded programs include the F-35 Joint
    Strike Fighter, F-22 Raptor and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet aircraft
    platform programs, for which we provide high-performance,
    advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber optic networking and
    switching, intra-flight data links, image processing, digital
    map software and other electronic components; the Warfighter
    Information Network-Tactical (“WIN-T”) program for the
    U.S. Army, for which we are designing and testing the
    wireless transmission system architecture, applying our proven
    enabling technologies for wireless on-the-move communications,
    including phased arrays and high-speed secure wireless network
    solutions; the JTRS Ground Mobile Radio (“GMR”)
    program, for which we design, test and integrate the crypto
    subsystem, ground vehicle adaptor, ground vehicle adaptor mount,
    high-frequency power amplifier and high-frequency coupler; the
    Multifunctional Information Distribution System
    (“MIDS”) terminals program for DoD aircraft, which
    provides U.S. military forces with secure, jam-resistant,
    digital tactical communications; the Multiple Launch Rocket
    System (“MLRS”) Improved Fire Control System
    (“IFCS”) program for the U.S. Army, for which we
    provide the launcher interface unit, power switching unit and
    weapon interface unit; the Large Aperture Multiband Deployable
    Antenna (“LAMDA”) program, for which we provide
    rugged, highly-mobile, user-friendly,
    large-aperture
    tactical antennas supporting tri-band operations by utilizing
    interchangeable antenna feeds that can be rapidly installed by
    operators in the field; the CDL Hawklink program for
    U.S. Navy LAMPS helicopters, for which we are performing
    pre-production and testing of the Ku-band tactical CDL; the
    Multiband Shipboard Satellite Communications Terminal
    (“MSSCT”) program for the U.S. Navy, for which we
    are providing wideband satellite communications terminal
    systems; the Global Positioning System Next Generation Ground
    Control Segment (“OCX”) program, for which we provide
    design and engineering services for hardware, software and
    network infrastructure, including advanced ground antennas,
    advanced monitoring stations and interfaces to existing ground
    antennas; and the Lightweight Multiband Satellite Terminal
    (“LMST”) program for the U.S. Marine Corps, for
    which we provide mobile satellite communications terminals.


 


    Significant new contract awards during fiscal 2008 included a
    five-year IDIQ contract, potentially worth $85 million, for
    the U.S. Navy’s Commercial Broadband Satellite Program
    (“CBSP”) Force Level Variant, for which we
    supply, for aircraft carriers and amphibious assault ships,
    broadband multiband satellite communications terminals that
    support essential mission requirements and provide high-speed
    Internet access for as many as 5,000 military personnel onboard
    each aircraft carrier; and a five-year IDIQ contract,
    potentially worth $77 million, for the
    U.S. Navy’s CBSP Unit Level Variant, for which we
    supply, for frigates, cruisers and destroyers, broadband
    multiband satellite communications terminals that provide
    enhanced morale-related communications services such as
    high-speed Internet access and video communications.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    Revenue and Backlog:  Revenue for the Defense
    Communications and Electronics segment increased 19 percent
    to $1,975 million in fiscal 2008 compared with
    $1,661 million in fiscal 2007, and was $1,293 million
    in fiscal 2006. Segment operating income increased
    23 percent to $599.8 million in fiscal 2008 compared
    with $487.1 million in fiscal 2007, and was
    $354.1 million in fiscal 2006. The Defense Communications
    and Electronics segment contributed 37 percent of our total
    revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with 39 percent in fiscal
    2007 and 37 percent in fiscal 2006. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was approximately 21 percent in fiscal 2008 compared
    with 21 percent in fiscal 2007 and 24 percent in
    fiscal 2006. U.S. Government customers, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, accounted for approximately
    86 percent of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal
    2008 compared with approximately 83 percent in fiscal 2007
    and in fiscal 2006. For a general description of our
    U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a
    discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursement versus
    fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1.
    Business — Principal Customers; Government
    Contracts” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $1,160 million at July 25, 2008 compared with
    $1,016 million at July 27, 2007 and $933 million
    at July 28, 2006. We expect to fill approximately
    90 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2009, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Unfunded backlog
    for this segment was $223 million at July 25, 2008
    compared with $148 million at July 27, 2007 and
    $278 million at July 28, 2006. Additional information
    regarding this segment’s funded and unfunded backlog is
    provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded
    and Unfunded Backlog” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment,
    including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts
    and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business —
    Principal Customers; Government Contracts,”
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Government
    Communications Systems





    In fiscal 2008, Government Communications Systems was comprised
    of our Civil Programs, National Intelligence Programs and IT
    Services businesses.


 


    Civil Programs:  Serving primarily
    U.S. Government civilian agencies, including the Federal
    Aviation Administration (“FAA”), Census Bureau,
    National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
    (“NOAA”), Department of Homeland Security
    (“DHS”) and Government Printing Office
    (“GPO”), we use our ability to implement and manage
    large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced
    communications and information processing technologies in order
    to provide precise, highly reliable, secure high-speed
    communications and information networks that improve
    productivity and information processing for our customers. Our
    networks and information systems for large-scale,
    geographically-dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities
    for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying,
    distributing, storing and retrieving data. Our custom networks,
    systems and solutions include meteorological data processing
    systems; electronic archival systems; graphic information
    systems; telecommunications services systems; maritime
    communications systems, including worldwide turnkey broadband
    satellite and terrestrial network systems and managed services
    for the maritime community, remote land-based installations and
    autonomous (buoy) systems; and healthcare IT enterprise
    intelligence solutions and services, including systems
    integration and collaboration, intelligent infrastructure,
    advanced visualization and display, and enterprise digital
    content management.


 


    For example, we are the prime contractor on the 15-year,
    $2.2 billion contract for the FAA Telecommunications
    Infrastructure (“FTI”) program to integrate and
    modernize the U.S. air traffic control system and
    infrastructure. FTI is a modern, secure and efficient network
    that is providing voice, data and radar communications to 50,000
    FAA employees at more than 4,000 FAA sites across the U.S.,
    while reducing operating costs, enhancing network efficiency,
    reliability and security and improving service. We designed and
    deployed the new FTI network, have successfully transitioned
    more than 90 percent of the FAA’s legacy networks to
    the new FTI network, and are providing on-going mission
    operations and support services. We are also working with the
    FAA on other programs, including the Voice Switching and Control
    System (“VSCS”) program that allows air traffic
    controllers to establish critical ground-to-air and
    ground-to-ground communications links with pilots and other air
    traffic controllers, respectively; the Weather and Radar
    Processor (“WARP”) program that provides air traffic
    controllers with high-resolution graphical displays of
    integrated real-time next generation weather radar data; and the
    Operational and Supportability Implementation System
    (“OASIS”) program that provides integrated real-time
    weather and flight planning data for preflight weather briefings
    and in-flight updates.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    We are also the prime contractor to the U.S. Census Bureau
    on two of its major programs. Under the Master Address
    File/Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and
    Referencing Accuracy Improvement Project (“MTAIP”), we
    have modernized two key census databases containing
    175 million addresses for all U.S. residences and
    businesses and a database linking U.S. streets, rivers,
    railroads and other geographic features to Global Positioning
    System (“GPS”) coordinates. For the Field Data
    Collection Automation (“FDCA”) program awarded to us
    during fiscal 2006, we are integrating multiple automated
    systems and have developed a new wireless handheld device with
    integrated GPS and secure communication capabilities that
    together are designed to enable census takers to input data in
    real time and securely transmit the information back to the
    Census Bureau in support of the 2010 census.


 


    We are also working with the GPO on its digital catalog database
    conversion project to develop its Federal Digital System, an IT
    system in which content — text, graphics, video, audio
    and other formats — will be entered, authenticated,
    and catalogued according to GPO-selected metadata and standards,
    in order to digitally preserve and make publicly accessible in a
    one-stop online site a vast quantity of Federal documents and
    information from all three branches of the U.S. Government.


 


    In a new market for us — healthcare IT
    solutions — the Department of Health and Human
    Services (“HHS”) awarded us a $6 million contract
    in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 to develop and integrate an
    open-source National Health Information Exchange Gateway
    solution that will enable Federal healthcare agencies and
    healthcare providers to share patient information more quickly
    and easily, improving the quality of care and reducing costs. In
    the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we were selected for award of
    a seven-year contract, potentially worth $58 million, to provide
    the communications/navigation system for the next-generation
    space suit supporting the National Aeronautics and Space
    Administration (“NASA”) Constellation program.


 


    National Intelligence Programs:  A significant
    portion of this business involves classified programs. While
    classified programs generally are not discussed in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K,
    the operating results relating to classified programs are
    included in our consolidated financial statements. We believe
    that the business risks associated with such programs do not
    differ materially from those of other U.S. Government
    programs.


 


    Serving primarily national intelligence and security agency
    customers, including NSA, the National Reconnaissance Office
    (“NRO”) and the National Geospatial-Intelligence
    Agency (“NGA”), we provide integrated intelligence,
    surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) solutions that
    improve situational awareness, data collection accuracy and
    product analysis by correlating near real-time mission data and
    intelligence reference data for display and analysis by
    strategic and tactical planners and decision makers. Our ISR
    systems help to integrate information across the analyst
    workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been
    collected and processed. We strive to produce innovative and
    cost-effective ISR solutions that provide our customers with
    information dominance for battle-space superiority.


 


    For example, our image processing capabilities extend from
    algorithm development through delivery of operations systems,
    and we are providing advanced image exploitation and
    dissemination solutions for ISR applications by advancing image
    processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital
    product generation techniques. These technologies range from new
    techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated
    techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization.
    Also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide
    complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the
    terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple foe
    and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data,
    pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from
    real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in
    fractions of a second. In addition, we have industry-leading
    capabilities in the architecture, design and development of
    highly-specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays
    and on-board processors, which are used to enable
    next-generation satellite systems to provide the
    U.S. military and intelligence communities with strategic
    and tactical advantage. We are also a leader in the design and
    development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial
    space telecommunications applications. Further, our wireless
    products capabilities include developing and supplying
    state-of-the-art
    wireless surveillance and tracking equipment to the U.S.
    Government and law enforcement communities for vehicular,
    man-portable, airborne, remote/unattended and system-level
    solutions for both passive and active missions.


 


    During fiscal 2008, we were awarded several new classified
    programs and follow-on contracts. During fiscal 2008, we also
    were awarded several non-classified contracts. We were awarded a
    two-year contract in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 to provide
    satellite reflector antennas for the Sirius Satellite Radio FM 6
    satellite expected to be launched in the fourth quarter of
    calendar 2010. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we were
    awarded a ten-year contract (one base year with nine option
    years) valued at more than $40 million to supply support
    and engineering services for multiple space-related ground
    systems for a U.S. Air Force base. Ongoing previously
    awarded programs



    
    7



Table of Contents




    include a contract with Space Systems/Loral to design and
    construct unfurlable mesh reflectors for commercial satellites;
    a contract to develop mission management software for security
    analysts; and a contract under the Global Geospatial
    Intelligence program to provide imagery intelligence and
    photogrammetry, mapping and charting information, and
    three-dimensional high-resolution image models of harbors,
    cities, airfields and other terrain.


 


    IT Services:  We provide IT and communications
    services, products, enterprise solutions and advanced systems to
    U.S. Government defense, intelligence, homeland security
    and civil customers; state and local governments; and healthcare
    organizations and institutions. We significantly expanded our IT
    Services business area through our acquisition of Multimax
    Incorporated (“Multimax”) in the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2007, broadening our customer base and providing new
    growth opportunities through Multimax’s key positions on
    major contracts such as the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet
    (“NMCI”) program and certain Government-Wide
    Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”), including Network
    Centric Solutions (“NETCENTS”), EAGLE, ITES-2S and
    FirstSource, which are IT procurement vehicles broadly
    accessible to U.S. Government agencies. With approximately
    3,000 professionals currently operating at locations worldwide,
    we support large-scale, mission-critical networks with technical
    expertise and strong customer commitment through the full
    technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment,
    operations and ongoing support. Our services include IT
    outsourcing (data entry, network administration, system
    operations and maintenance, and procurement and logistics
    support); enterprise management (systems engineering and
    integration, network design, capacity expansions and information
    assurance and security); and enterprise-wide IT planning and
    architecture services. We also offer customized IT support,
    operations and management services that reflect rigorous
    service-level requirements and performance-based incentives and
    disincentives, allowing public-sector organizations to focus on
    their core mission responsibilities while maximizing the return
    on their IT and communications infrastructure investments. In
    addition, we develop products and technologies that support
    advanced, network-centric communications, including the
    OS/COMET®
    satellite telemetry tracking and control software that is the
    command and control product of choice for
    Iridium®,
    GPS, multiple government geosynchronous (“GEO”) and
    Low Earth Orbit (“LEO”) satellites.


 


    As examples, we are a Tier One subcontractor on the NMCI
    program, the largest IT outsourcing contract ever issued by the
    U.S. Government, which will eventually provide voice, data
    and video communications to more than 500,000 Navy and Marine
    Corps users. We provide operations, maintenance and support
    services for NRO’s global communications and information
    systems network (the “Patriot” program) in space and
    on the ground under a ten-year contract, potentially worth
    $1 billion, in support of NRO’s global analyst
    community. We provide technical support services and IT systems
    and service modernization in support of more than 230
    U.S. embassies and consulates around the world under a
    contract awarded by the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of
    Consular Affairs (the “State 6” program). We provide
    system maintenance and engineering for the Defense Information
    Systems Agency’s (“DISA”) Crisis Management
    System, and we staff the U.S. Postal Service Maintenance
    Technical Support Center in Oklahoma. We are also making it
    easier for DHS to purchase IT products through the FirstSource
    GWAC vehicle.


 


    Additionally, we operate and maintain the communications
    functions for the U.S. Air Force
    50th Space
    Wing’s Satellite Control Network (“AFSCN”), a
    global, continuously operational network of ground stations,
    operational control nodes and communications links that support
    launch and command and control of various space programs managed
    by the DoD and other national security space organizations. The
    AFSCN is responsible for providing readiness, launch, early
    orbit/on-orbit support, and anomaly resolution for a variety of
    military satellite constellations, including more than 140
    deployed satellites and other space vehicles such as ballistic
    missiles and the space shuttle. In calendar 2000, we were
    awarded a contract under the Operational Space Services and
    Support (“OSSS”) program, for which we have been
    providing operations, maintenance and support services to the
    AFSCN and GPS ground networks, including organizational level
    maintenance at all ground stations assigned to the AFSCN and GPS
    networks. In calendar 2002, we were awarded a contract under the
    Mission Communications Operations and Maintenance
    (“MCOM”) program, for which we have been providing
    operations and maintenance services for the AFSCN’s
    communications functions at Schriever AFB in Colorado and
    Onizuka AFS in California. In January 2008, we were awarded a
    6.5-year contract, which could be worth as much as
    $410 million, under the Network and Space Operations and
    Maintenance (“NSOM”) program with the U.S. Air
    Force
    50th Space
    Wing in Colorado Springs to provide operations and maintenance
    support to the AFSCN at locations around the world. The NSOM
    program includes a majority of the OSSS and MCOM programs and
    supersedes those programs.


 


    During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we were among a number
    of companies awarded the five-year ALLIANT GWAC by the General
    Services Administration (“GSA”), which allows us to
    provide integrated IT product and service solutions to support a
    number of U.S. Government agencies. We received a
    six-month, $22 million follow-on order in the third quarter
    of fiscal 2008 from the Department of State to modernize IT
    architecture for the Bureau of Consular Affairs. In the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2008, we were awarded a three-year,



    
    8



Table of Contents




    $20 million IT services contract for a next-generation
    Tactical Video Capture System (“TVCS”) that will
    support training at various U.S. Marine Corps locations
    across the U.S. and abroad, and we were also awarded our
    second contract for healthcare IT solutions, a new market for
    us. This is a $12 million contract for the U.S. Army
    Dental Command Information Management & Technology
    Division, for which we will provide local operations and support
    to the U.S. Army Dental Command at Ft. Sam Houston,
    Texas and other Army dental clinics at locations around the
    world.


 


    Revenue and Backlog:  Revenue for the
    Government Communications Systems segment increased
    32 percent to $2,000 million in fiscal 2008 compared
    with $1,513 million in fiscal 2007, and was
    $1,328 million in fiscal 2006. Segment operating income
    increased 7 percent to $149.8 million in fiscal 2008
    compared with $140.0 million in fiscal 2007, and was
    $141.4 million in fiscal 2006. This segment contributed
    38 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared
    with 36 percent in fiscal 2007 and 38 percent in
    fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2008, approximately 12 percent of
    the revenue for this segment was under contracts with prime
    contractors and approximately 88 percent was under direct
    contracts with customers, compared with approximately
    19 percent of revenue under contracts with prime
    contractors and approximately 81 percent of revenue under
    direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2007. Some of this
    segment’s more significant programs in fiscal 2008 included
    the FTI program, the FDCA program, the Patriot program, the
    NETCENTS program, the NMCI program and various classified
    programs. The largest program by revenue represented
    approximately 11 percent of this segment’s revenue in
    fiscal 2008, compared with approximately 16 percent in
    fiscal 2007. The 10 largest programs by revenue represented
    approximately 55 percent of this segment’s revenue in
    fiscal 2008, approximately 50 percent in fiscal 2007 and
    approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2008,
    this segment had a diverse portfolio of over 250 programs.
    Historically, this diversity has provided a stable backlog and
    reduced potential risks that come from reductions in funding or
    changes in customer priorities. In fiscal 2008,
    U.S. Government customers, whether directly or through
    prime contractors, accounted for approximately 96 percent
    of this segment’s total revenue compared with approximately
    93 percent in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, with the FAA
    accounting for 15 percent of this segment’s fiscal
    2008 revenue. For a general description of our
    U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a
    discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursement versus
    fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1.
    Business — Principal Customers; Government
    Contracts” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $111 million at July 25, 2008 compared with
    $153 million at July 27, 2007 and $152 million at
    July 28, 2006. We expect to fill approximately
    92 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2009, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Unfunded backlog
    for this segment was $4,066 million at July 25, 2008
    compared with $3,999 million at July 27, 2007 and
    $3,881 million at July 28, 2006. Additional
    information regarding funded and unfunded backlog for this
    segment is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment,
    including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts
    and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business —
    Principal Customers; Government Contracts,”
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Broadcast
    Communications





    Broadcast Communications’ hardware and software products,
    systems and services offer a comprehensive, single-source
    approach to delivering interoperable workflow capabilities and
    solutions spanning the entire broadcast value chain, including
    content creation, management, distribution and delivery, for
    broadcast, cable, satellite, telecommunications and other media
    content providers. This segment serves the global digital and
    analog media markets, providing infrastructure and networking
    products and solutions, media and workflow solutions, and
    television and radio transmission equipment and systems.


 


    The current trend and future of broadcast media involves
    digitizing content and transporting it simultaneously over many
    different networks to many types of devices. The need to create,
    manage and ultimately deliver digital media content is driving
    an infrastructure upgrade cycle for the media industry. We are
    supporting customers as they expand services for high definition
    (“HD”) TV, IP TV, video-on-demand and interactive TV.
    Recent acquisitions and a series of new products have
    established Broadcast Communications as a provider of end-to-end
    solutions for the digital and HD infrastructure build-out
    worldwide. These acquisitions include Encoda Systems Holdings,
    Inc. (“Encoda”) in fiscal 2005; Leitch Technology
    Corporation (“Leitch”), Optimal Solutions, Inc.
    (“OSi”) and the Aastra Digital Video business
    (“Aastra Digital Video”) of Aastra Technologies in
    fiscal 2006; and Zandar Technologies plc (“Zandar”) in
    fiscal 2008. Zandar is a Dublin, Ireland-headquartered developer
    and provider of high-quality multi-image display processors for
    television broadcast and professional video markets.
    Zandar’s compact, scalable systems, such as the Predator
    IItm
    and
    QS100tm
    series, and our larger-format
    CENTRIOtm
    systems are complementary product lines that collectively
    represent a complete platform for multi-image display
    processors,



    
    9



Table of Contents




    or multiviewer products. New products and recent product
    advancements include the NEXIO
    AMPtm
    system, a one-stop solution for creating, scheduling and airing
    complete TV channels in HD or standard definition
    (“SD”), which combines a high-quality playout server,
    animation, live video, video clips, audio, real-time external
    data feeds and master control branding functionality in a single
    turnkey system; the
    H-Classtm
    media software suite, a unified system of interoperable
    broadcast and media applications based on open standards, with a
    network-, content- and service-agnostic approach, which support
    customers’ core services and business operations, make data
    exchange and workflow more efficient and facilitate adding
    services that can lead to new revenue streams; and a family of
    three gigabit per second (“3 Gb/s”) solutions
    comprised of a complete set of interoperable devices for
    creating a true 3 Gb/s infrastructure, which allows broadcasters
    to make infrastructure investments now and still migrate to the
    emerging 1080p HD format.


 


    Infrastructure and Networking Solutions:  Our
    infrastructure and networking solutions offerings include SD and
    HD products and systems that enable media companies to
    streamline workflow from production through transmission. We
    provide a comprehensive, next-generation portfolio of signal
    processors, routers, master control and branding systems,
    network monitoring and control software, and test and
    measurement instruments that support content throughout the
    workflow application chain. We also provide advanced multi-image
    display processors and state-of-the-art broadcast graphics and
    digital signage systems that change the way broadcasters view
    and manage content and provide broadcasters with options for
    presenting their brands. We also provide highly differentiated
    network access and multiplex platforms, including the Harris
    Intraplex and
    NetVXtm
    solutions, which offer customized integrated management and
    distribution applications for any content across any connection
    to support television, government video and public safety
    applications. Products also include the
    Platinumtm
    large router for mixed video and audio signal routing; the
    IconMastertm
    digital master control system; the
    Videotek®
    line of precision test and measurement instruments; the
    larger-format
    CENTRIOtm
    multiviewer systems; the compact, scalable Predator
    IItm
    and
    QS100tm
    series of multiviewer systems; the
    Inscriber®
    line of graphics and titling products; and the Infocaster line
    of digital signage systems.


 


    Media and Workflow:  Our media and workflow
    solutions offerings enable customers to manage their digital
    media workflow through a portfolio of software solutions for
    advertising, media management (traffic, billing and program
    scheduling), broadband, digital asset management, and play-out
    automation, and to transition into an IT workflow by using
    servers to manage content flow, storage and other key facets of
    an increasingly important file-based broadcast world. We offer
    modular, standards-based solutions with open application
    programming interfaces (“APIs”) for ease of
    integration and future scalability. Products include the
    H-Classtm
    Content Delivery Platform, OSi
    Traffictm
    software and the
    Inveniotm
    Digital Asset Management solution. The
    H-Classtm
    Content Delivery Platform represents an integrated approach to
    content management at the enterprise level — from
    ingest to distribution over a variety of devices or networks.
    H-Class provides broadcasters and other media, entertainment and
    content distribution customers with a means to integrate
    disparate processes from creation to consumption into a single,
    modular system. Products also include the
    NEXIOtm
    family of scalable, interoperable video servers and
    Velocitytm
    family of editing controllers that employ open standards to
    accelerate time-to-air and reduce the costs associated with
    content acquisition, production, distribution and media
    management.


 


    Television and Radio Transmission Systems:  We
    develop, manufacture and supply digital and analog television
    and radio transmission systems for delivery of rich media over
    wireless broadcast terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis,
    including global broadcast and mobile TV applications. We can
    provide single products or
    end-to-end
    systems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of
    transmitters or large, international systems. Our television and
    radio transmission systems solutions are scalable to meet the
    needs of broadcasters of all sizes. We are a leader in
    television’s transition from analog to digital technology.
    We provided the nation’s first advanced digital television
    (“DTV”) transmitter as well as the first commercial
    DTV application and are a leader in technology for the
    U.S. digital standard known as “ATSC” and the
    European digital standard “DVB-T”. We continue to play
    a leading role in assisting local television broadcasters and
    network operators implement transmission solutions, including
    solutions based on ATSC and DVB-T and other digital standards
    and all major approaches to broadcast mobile TV. In fiscal 2007,
    we introduced with LG Electronics Inc. the jointly-developed
    MPHtm
    in-band mobile DTV system
    (“Mobile-Pedestrian-Handheld” or “MPH”), a
    new technology capable of providing DTV signals and extending
    over-the-air broadcast TV signals beyond customary TV viewing at
    home to mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as
    mobile phones or laptop computers).


 


    We are also a leader in the transition from analog to digital
    radio. Product offerings address the U.S. digital standard
    called “IBOC” (In-Band/On-Channel), which is referred
    to in the market as “HD
    Radio®,”
    as well as international digital standards including
    “DAB” and “DRM”. The rollout of HD Radio in
    the U.S. continues to progress with approximately 1,700
    stations currently on-air with HD Radio. Radio transmission
    products include the
    FLEXSTARtm
    family, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so
    broadcasters can offer supplemental audio



    
    10



Table of Contents




    and data capability along with the main program stream. This
    enables broadcasters to develop new revenue-generating
    opportunities, including multiple programs on the same channel,
    5.1 surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports
    reports, store-and-play capabilities and real-time navigation.


 


    Revenue and Backlog:  Revenue for the Broadcast
    Communications segment increased 7 percent to
    $643 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $600 million
    in fiscal 2007, and was $538 million in fiscal 2006.
    Segment operating income was $33.8 million in fiscal 2008
    compared with $11.9 million in fiscal 2007 and
    $22.8 million in fiscal 2006. The Broadcast Communications
    segment contributed 12 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2008 compared with 14 percent in fiscal 2007 and
    15 percent in fiscal 2006. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was approximately 47 percent in fiscal 2008 compared
    with 46 percent in fiscal 2007 and 41 percent in
    fiscal 2006. Principal customers for Broadcast
    Communications’ products and services include domestic and
    international television and radio broadcast stations; cable and
    satellite networks and service providers; telecommunications
    providers; Federal agencies; public safety entities; advertising
    agencies; and content originators. No single customer accounted
    for more than 2 percent of fiscal 2008 revenue for the
    Broadcast Communications segment.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    The backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $328 million at July 25, 2008 compared with
    $323 million at July 27, 2007 and $240 million at
    July 28, 2006. We expect to fill approximately
    54 percent of this backlog during fiscal 2009, but we can
    give no assurance of such fulfillment. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, see “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Harris
    Stratex Networks





    In the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we combined our former
    Microwave Communications Division with Stratex, a
    publicly-traded provider of high-speed wireless transmission
    systems, to form Harris Stratex Networks. Harris Stratex
    Networks, our majority-owned, publicly-traded subsidiary listed
    on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “HSTX,”
    is a global communications solutions company offering end-to-end
    wireless transmission solutions for mobile and fixed-wireless
    service providers and private networks. As of June 27,
    2008, we owned approximately 56 percent of Harris Stratex
    Networks’ outstanding stock. Following the combination, our
    business segment formerly referred to as Microwave
    Communications is now referred to as Harris Stratex Networks and
    includes the results of the combined business for periods
    following the combination.


 


    Harris Stratex Networks is a global independent supplier of
    turnkey wireless transmission network solutions. It offers
    reliable, flexible, scalable and cost-efficient wireless
    transmission network solutions, including microwave radio
    systems and network management software, which are backed by
    comprehensive services and support. Harris Stratex Networks
    designs, manufactures and sells a range of wireless transmission
    networking products, solutions and services to customers in more
    than 135 countries around the world, including mobile and fixed
    telephone service providers, private network operators,
    government agencies, transportation and utility companies,
    public safety agencies and broadcast system operators. Harris
    Stratex Networks’ product solutions offerings include
    point-to-point digital microwave radio systems for mobile system
    access, backhaul, trunking and license-exempt applications,
    supporting new network deployments, network expansion and
    capacity upgrades. Harris Stratex Networks provides its
    products and services principally to the North America
    microwave, international microwave and network operations
    markets.


 


    North America Microwave:  Harris Stratex
    Networks serves the North America microwave market by offering
    microwave radio products and services to major national carriers
    and other cellular network operators, public safety operators
    and other government agencies, systems integrators,
    transportation and utility companies and other private network
    operators within North America. A large part of the North
    American microwave market is comprised of the cellular backhaul
    and public safety markets.


 


    International Microwave:  Harris Stratex
    Networks serves the international microwave market by offering
    microwave radio products and services to regional and national
    carriers and other cellular network operators, public safety
    operators, government and defense agencies and other private
    network operators in every region outside of North America. Its
    wireless transmission systems deliver regional and country-wide
    backbone in developing nations, where microwave radio
    installations provide 21st-century communications rapidly and
    economically. Rural communities, areas with rugged terrain and
    regions with extreme temperatures benefit from the ability to
    build an advanced, affordable communications infrastructure
    despite these challenges.



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Network Operations:  Harris Stratex Networks
    serves the network operations market by offering a wide range of
    software-based network management solutions for network
    operators worldwide, from element management to turnkey,
    end-to-end network management and service assurance solutions
    for virtually any type of communications or information
    network — including broadband, wireline, wireless and
    converged networks. Harris Stratex Networks develops, designs,
    produces, sells and services network management systems,
    including the
    NetBoss®
    product line, for these applications.


 


    In general, wireless transmission networks are constructed using
    microwave radios and other equipment to connect cell sites,
    switching systems, land mobile radio systems, wireline
    transmission systems and other fixed-access facilities and other
    communications systems. Wireless networks range in size from a
    single transmission link connecting two buildings to complex
    networks comprised of thousands of wireless connections. The
    architecture of a network is influenced by several factors,
    including the available radio frequency spectrum, coordination
    of frequencies with existing infrastructure, application
    requirements, environmental factors and local geography. For
    many applications, microwave systems offer a lower-cost,
    highly-reliable and more easily deployable alternative to
    competing wireline transmission media, such as fiber, copper or
    coaxial cable.


 


    Harris Stratex Networks’ principal product families of
    licensed point-to-point microwave radios include
    Eclipsetm,
    an
    IP-enabled
    platform for nodal wireless transmission systems, and
    TRuepoint®,
    a platform for high-performance point-to-point wireless
    communications. The Eclipse product line combines wireless
    transmission functions with network processing node functions,
    including many functions that, for non-nodal products, would
    have to be purchased separately. System functions include voice,
    data and video transport, node management, multiplexing, routing
    and cross-connection. Eclipse is designed to simplify complex
    networks and lower the total cost of ownership over the product
    life. With frequency coverage from 5 to 38 gigahertz,
    low-to-high capacity operation and traditional time-division
    multiplexing and Ethernet transmission capabilities, Eclipse is
    designed to support a wide range of long- and short-haul
    applications. Eclipse is software-configurable, enabling easy
    capacity upgrades, and gives users the ability to plan and
    deploy networks and adapt to changing conditions at minimal cost
    and disruption. The TRuepoint product family offers full
    plug-and-play, software programmable microwave radio
    configuration. It delivers service from 4 to 180 megabits per
    second capacity at frequencies ranging from 6 to
    38 gigahertz. TRuepoint is designed to meet the current and
    future needs of network operators, including mobile, private
    network, government and access service providers. The unique
    architecture of the core platform reduces both capital
    expenditures and life cycle costs, while meeting international
    and North American standards. The software-based architecture
    enables migration from traditional microwave access applications
    to higher-capacity transport interconnections. Harris Stratex
    Networks also offers license-exempt, point-to-point microwave
    radio product families.


 


    Harris Stratex Networks’ network management product
    families, including NetBoss, offer a broad set of choices for
    all levels of network management, from enterprise-wide
    management and service assurance to element management. NetBoss
    is a family of network management and service assurance
    solutions for managing multi-vendor, multi-technology
    communications networks. NetBoss supports wireless and wireline
    networks of many types, offering fault management, performance
    management, service activation and assurance, billing mediation
    and operational support system integration. As a modular,
    off-the-shelf product, it enables customers to implement
    management systems immediately or gradually, as their needs
    dictate. NetBoss XE offers advanced element management. NetBoss
    products are optimized to work seamlessly with Harris Stratex
    Networks digital microwave radios, such as the TRuepoint family,
    but can also be customized to manage products based on any
    network or computing technology.


 


    Revenue and Backlog:  Revenue for the Harris
    Stratex Networks segment increased 41 percent to
    $718 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $508 million
    in fiscal 2007, and was $349 million in fiscal 2006. This
    segment had an operating loss of $28.5 million in fiscal
    2008 compared with operating income of $146.9 million in
    fiscal 2007 and an operating loss of $19.6 million in
    fiscal 2006. This segment contributed 14 percent of our
    total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with 12 percent in
    fiscal 2007 and 10 percent in fiscal 2006. This segment had
    revenue from a single external customer that exceeded
    10 percent of this segment’s total revenue during each
    of fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2006, but not during fiscal 2007. The
    percentage of this segment’s revenue that was derived
    outside of the United States was approximately 73 percent
    in fiscal 2008 compared with 66 percent in fiscal 2007 and
    57 percent in fiscal 2006.


 


    This segment generally sells its North American products and
    services directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. In international
    markets, this segment markets and sells its products and
    services through regional sales offices and established
    distribution channels, using agents and distributors. See
    “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    The backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $412 million at July 25, 2008 compared with
    $232 million at July 27, 2007 and $164 million at
    July 28, 2006. Harris Stratex Networks expects to fill
    substantially all of this backlog during fiscal 2009, but we can
    give no assurance of such fulfillment. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, see “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    International
    Business





    Revenue from products exported from the United States (including
    foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was
    $1,283.7 million (24 percent of our total revenue) in
    fiscal 2008 compared with $964.4 million (23 percent
    of our total revenue) in fiscal 2007 and $746.5 million
    (21 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2006. Our
    international sales include both direct exports from the United
    States and sales from foreign subsidiaries. Most of the
    international sales are derived from the Harris Stratex
    Networks, Defense Communications and Electronics and Broadcast
    Communications segments. Direct export sales are primarily
    denominated in U.S. dollars, whereas sales from foreign
    subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of
    the subsidiary. Exports from the United States, principally to
    Europe, Africa, Canada, Latin America, the Middle East and Asia,
    totaled $594.1 million (approximately 46 percent of
    our international revenue) in fiscal 2008 compared with
    $613.9 million (64 percent of our international
    revenue) in fiscal 2007 and $418.0 million (56 percent
    of our international revenue) in fiscal 2006. The percentage of
    revenue represented by foreign operations was 13 percent in
    fiscal 2008 compared with 8 percent in fiscal 2007 and
    9 percent in fiscal 2006. The percentage of long-lived
    assets represented by foreign operations was 26 percent as
    of June 27, 2008 compared with 28 percent as of
    June 29, 2007 and 24 percent as of June 30, 2006.
    Financial information regarding our domestic and international
    operations is contained in Note 23: Business
    Segments in the Notes and is incorporated herein by
    reference.


 


    Our principal international manufacturing facilities are located
    in Canada and the United Kingdom. The majority of our
    international marketing activities are conducted through
    subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, Central and South
    America and Asia. We have also established international
    marketing organizations and several regional sales offices.
    Reference is made to Exhibit 21 “Subsidiaries of the
    Registrant” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for further information regarding our international subsidiaries.


 


    We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers,
    distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and
    sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically
    and internationally. These independent representatives may buy
    for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or
    governmental customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the
    ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or
    established by the independent representative and may be above
    or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally
    receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those
    prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer.
    Revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2008 represented
    7 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    28 percent of our international revenue, compared with
    revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2007 representing
    9 percent of our total revenue and 32 percent of our
    international revenue, and revenue from indirect sales channels
    in fiscal 2006 representing 6 percent of our total revenue
    and 23 percent of our international revenue.


 


    Fiscal 2008 international revenue came from a large number of
    foreign countries, and no single country accounted for
    3 percent or more of our total revenue. Some of our exports
    are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried
    either on an open account or installment note basis. Advance
    payments, progress payments or other similar payments received
    prior to, or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs
    incurred. Significant foreign government contracts generally
    require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to stay
    competitive in international markets, we also sometimes enter
    into recourse and vendor financing arrangements to facilitate
    sales to certain customers.


 


    The particular economic, social and political conditions for
    business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those
    encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that
    the overall business risk for the international business as a
    whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic
    operations as a whole. A description of the types of risks to
    which we are subject in international business is contained in
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are
    largely offset by the diversification of the international
    business and the protection provided by letters of credit and
    advance payments.


 



    Competition





    We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to
    technological advances. Although successful product and systems
    development is not necessarily dependent on substantial
    financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our
    businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels
    of expenditures for research and development. In each of our
    businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our



    
    13



Table of Contents




    management believes are compatible with our resources, overall
    technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive
    factors in these businesses are cost-effectiveness; product
    quality and reliability; technological capabilities; service;
    past performance; ability to develop and implement complex,
    integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; and
    the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international
    markets. Within the IT services market, there is intense
    competition among many companies, and this market is generally
    more labor intensive with competitive margin rates over contract
    periods of shorter duration. The ability to compete in the IT
    services market depends on a number of factors, including the
    capability to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices
    across the diverse spectrum of the IT services market.


 


    In the Defense Communications and Electronics segment, principal
    competitors include BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics, ITT
    Industries, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrop
    Grumman, Raytheon, Rockwell Collins, Rohde & Schwarz,
    Tadiran and Thales.


 


    In the Government Communications Systems segment, principal
    competitors include Accenture, BAE Systems, Boeing, Computer
    Sciences, General Dynamics, ITT Industries, L-3 Communications,
    Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, Rockwell Collins
    and SAIC.


 


    Consolidation among U.S. defense and aerospace companies
    has resulted in a reduction in the number of principal prime
    contractors. As a result of this consolidation, in our Defense
    Communications and Electronics and Government Communications
    Systems segments we frequently “partner” or are
    involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with
    companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other
    programs.


 


    In the Broadcast Communications segment, principal competitors
    include Avid, Broadcast Electronics, Chyron, Evertz, Harmonic,
    Microsystems, Miranda, Nautel, NEC, Omneon, Omnibus, Pilat
    Media, Rad Systems, Rohde & Schwarz, Sony Broadcast,
    Tandberg Television, Tektronix, Thomson/Grass Valley,
    Thomson/Thales, Vizrt and Wide Orbit, as well as other
    smaller companies and divisions of large companies. We believe
    that our broad product offering and total content delivery
    solutions are key competitive strengths for this segment.


 


    In the Harris Stratex Networks segment, principal competitors
    include Ericsson, NEC, Alcatel-Lucent,
    Nokia-Siemens,
    Ceragon and Eltek-Nera, as well as other smaller companies.
    Several of this segment’s competitors are original
    equipment manufacturers or systems integrators through which the
    segment sometimes distributes and sells products and services to
    end-users. We believe that network and systems engineering
    support and service are key competitive strengths for this
    segment.


 



    Principal
    Customers; Government Contracts





    Sales to the U.S. Government, which is our only customer
    accounting for 2 percent or more of our total revenue, were
    68 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 compared
    with 66 percent in each of fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006.
    Additional information regarding customers for each of our
    segments is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Description of Business by Segment for
    Fiscal 2008” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from
    contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the
    U.S. Government. Most of the sales of the Government
    Communications Systems segment and of the Defense Programs area
    of the Defense Communications and Electronics segment are made
    directly or indirectly to the U.S. Government under
    contracts or subcontracts containing standard government
    contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if
    applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the
    U.S. Government or for default based upon performance.


 


    These U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include
    both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. Our
    cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of
    allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. Our
    cost-reimbursement contracts fall into three basic types:
    (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the
    payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of
    performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which
    provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified
    limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual
    targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and
    delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts,
    which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the
    discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the
    contractor against pre-established performance criteria. Under
    cost-reimbursement contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for
    allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on
    contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially
    or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or
    regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition costs,
    lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation
    defense costs.


 


    Our fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts
    or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under firm fixed-price
    contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a
    fixed price and, as a result, benefit from



    
    14



Table of Contents




    cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. Under
    fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the
    U.S. Government both savings accrued from contracts
    performed for less than target costs as well as costs incurred
    in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is
    higher than the target cost), but carry the entire burden of
    costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. Accordingly, under
    such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down
    depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met.
    Under firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we
    usually receive either milestone payments equaling
    100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress
    payments from the U.S. Government in amounts equaling
    75 percent of costs incurred under the contract. The
    remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are
    billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and
    deliverables under the contract. Fixed-price contracts generally
    have higher profit margins than cost-reimbursement contracts.
    Production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and
    development contracts are generally cost-reimbursement contracts.


 


    In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, approximately
    35 percent, 33 percent and 38 percent,
    respectively, of the total combined revenue of our Defense
    Communications and Electronics and Government Communications
    Systems segments was from fixed-price contracts. GWAC and IDIQ
    contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type,
    require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for
    individual task or delivery orders under such contracts.


 


    As stated above, U.S. Government contracts are terminable
    for the convenience of the U.S. Government, as well as for
    default based on performance. Companies supplying goods and
    services to the U.S. Government are dependent on
    Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of
    funds and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government
    policies resulting from various military, political and
    international developments. Long-term government contracts and
    related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for
    subsequent performance periods become unavailable. Under
    contracts terminable for the convenience of the
    U.S. Government, a contractor is entitled to receive
    payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the
    proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done.
    Contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that
    the U.S. Government pays only for the work it has accepted
    and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost
    of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages.
    In many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the
    complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and
    difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on
    developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Under
    many U.S. Government contracts, we are required to maintain
    facility and personnel security clearances complying with DoD
    and other Federal agency requirements. For further discussion of
    risks relating to U.S. Government contracts, see
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Funded
    and Unfunded Backlog





    Our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was
    approximately $6,300 million at July 25, 2008 compared
    with $5,871 million at July 27, 2007 and
    $5,641 million at July 28, 2006. The funded portion of
    this backlog was approximately $2,011 million at
    July 25, 2008 compared with $1,724 million at
    July 27, 2007 and $1,482 million at July 28,
    2006. The determination of backlog involves substantial
    estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements
    contracts and development and production contracts of a
    cost-reimbursement or incentive nature.


 


    We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products
    and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the
    case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated. Unfunded
    backlog is primarily unfilled firm and expected follow-on orders
    that have not yet met our established funding criteria. Our
    established funding criteria require both authorization by the
    customer as well as our management’s determination that
    there is little or no risk of the authorized funding being
    rescinded. We do not include potential task or delivery orders
    under IDIQ contracts in our backlog. In fiscal 2009, we expect
    to fill approximately 86 percent of our total funded
    backlog as of July 25, 2008. However, we can give no
    assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will
    become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is
    subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are
    beyond our control. Additional information with regard to the
    backlog of each of our segments is provided under
    “Item 1. Business — Description of Business
    by Segment for Fiscal 2008” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering





    Research, development and engineering expenditures totaled
    approximately $1,007 million in fiscal 2008,
    $924 million in fiscal 2007 and $824 million in fiscal
    2006. Company-sponsored research and product development costs,
    which included research and development for commercial products
    and independent research and development related to government
    products and services, as well as concept formulation studies
    and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately
    $275 million in fiscal 2008, $235 million in fiscal
    2007 and $198 million in fiscal 2006. A



    
    15



Table of Contents




    portion of our independent research and development costs are
    allocated among contracts and programs in process under
    U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Company-sponsored
    research and product development costs not otherwise allocable
    are charged to expense when incurred. The portion of total
    research, development and engineering expenditures that was not
    company-sponsored was funded by the U.S. Government and is
    included in our revenue. Customer-sponsored research and
    development was $732 million in fiscal 2008,
    $689 million in fiscal 2007 and $626 million in fiscal
    2006. Company-sponsored research is directed to the development
    of new products and to building technological capability in
    selected communications and electronic systems markets.
    U.S. Government-funded research helps strengthen and
    broaden our technical capabilities. All of our segments maintain
    their own engineering and new product development departments,
    with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology
    departments. As of June 27, 2008, we employed nearly 7,000
    engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to make the
    technologies developed in any of our business segments available
    for all other business segments.


 



    Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property





    We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the
    aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large and
    valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how,
    confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other
    intellectual property. We also license intellectual property to
    and from third parties. As of June 27, 2008, we held
    approximately 1,020 U.S. patents and 800 foreign patents,
    and had approximately 580 U.S. patent applications
    pending and 1,240 foreign patent applications pending.
    Unpatented research, development and engineering skills also
    make an important contribution to our business. While our
    intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to
    our business and the operations of our business segments, we do
    not consider our business or any business segment to be
    materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other
    intellectual property right, or any group of related patents,
    licenses or other intellectual property rights. We are engaged
    in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a
    number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which
    generate royalty income. Although existing license agreements
    have generated income in past years and may do so in the future,
    there can be no assurances we will enter into additional
    income-producing license agreements. From time to time we engage
    in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual
    property. Any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks,
    copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged,
    invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive
    advantages. With regard to patents relating to our Defense
    Communications and Electronics segment or our Government
    Communications Systems segment, the U.S. Government often
    has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license,
    pursuant to which the U.S. Government may use or authorize
    others to use the inventions covered by such patents. Pursuant
    to similar arrangements, the U.S. Government may consent to
    our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons.
    Numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products
    are also considered to be a valuable asset.


 



    Environmental
    and Other Regulations





    Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic
    and international laws and regulations designed to protect the
    environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions.
    The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common
    within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve.
    We believe that we have complied with these requirements and
    that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    Based upon currently-available information, we do not expect
    expenditures to protect the environment and to comply with
    current environmental laws and regulations over the next several
    years to have a material impact on our competitive or financial
    position, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures
    will not exceed current expectations. If future laws and
    regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently
    anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present
    estimates of those expenditures. We have installed waste
    treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy
    legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and
    prevention goals. We did not spend material amounts on
    environmental capital projects in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 or
    fiscal 2006. A portion of our environmental expenditures relates
    to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain
    environmental liabilities. We currently expect that amounts to
    be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be
    material in fiscal 2009. These amounts may increase in future
    years. Additional information regarding environmental and
    regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and in Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies in
    the Notes.


 


    Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental
    regulation in a number of jurisdictions. Equipment produced by
    our Broadcast Communications and Harris Stratex Networks
    segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and
    international requirements requiring end-of-life management
    and/or
    restricting materials in



    
    16



Table of Contents




    products delivered to customers, including the European
    Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and
    Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and Directive 2002/95/EC
    on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in
    Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”). Other
    jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. Such
    requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment
    produced by our Defense Communications and Electronics and
    Government Communications Systems segments. We believe that we
    have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable,
    with respect to our existing products sold into such
    jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and
    regulations with respect to our future products.


 


    Broadcast and wireless communications (whether TV, radio or
    telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation.
    Equipment produced by our Broadcast Communications and Harris
    Stratex Networks segments, in particular, is subject to domestic
    and international requirements to avoid interference among users
    of radio and television frequencies and to permit
    interconnection of telecommunications equipment. We believe that
    we have complied with such rules and regulations with respect to
    our existing products, and we intend to comply with such rules
    and regulations with respect to our future products.
    Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could
    impact our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Raw
    Materials and Supplies





    Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well
    as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use
    numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as
    electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and
    plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. We are
    dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number
    of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers
    and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials
    restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications
    and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent upon
    one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature
    of a particular item or because of local content preference
    requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project.
    While we have been affected by financial and performance issues
    of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been
    materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw
    materials or products. In fiscal 2007, our Broadcast
    Communications segment experienced component shortages from
    vendors as a result of the new RoHS environmental regulations in
    the European Union, which became effective on July 1, 2006.
    These regulations caused a spike in demand for lead-free
    electronic components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain
    shortages. These component shortages did not have a material
    adverse effect on our business.


 



    Seasonality





    We do not consider any material portion of our business to be
    seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our
    revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of
    U.S. Government budgets, supplemental budgets and contract
    awards, the availability of funding, product deliveries and
    customer acceptance.


 



    Employees





    We employed approximately 16,500 employees at the end of
    fiscal 2008 compared with approximately 16,000 employees at
    the end of fiscal 2007. Approximately 89 percent of our
    employees as of the end of fiscal 2008 are located in the United
    States. A significant number of employees in our Defense
    Communications and Electronics and Government Communications
    Systems segments possess a security clearance. We also utilize a
    number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the
    United States is represented by a labor union. In certain
    international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by
    workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we
    believe that our relations with our employees are good.


 



    Website
    Access to Harris Reports; Available Information





    General.  We maintain an Internet website at
    http://www.harris.com.
    Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments
    to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, are available free of charge on our website as soon as
    reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”). We also will provide the reports
    in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also
    make available free of charge on our website our annual report
    to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the
    information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    or any current or other periodic report that we file with or
    furnish to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the
    SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s
    electronic data gathering and retrieval (“EDGAR”)
    system available through the SEC’s website at
    http://www.sec.gov.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Additional information relating to our businesses, including our
    operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Corporate Governance Principles and Committee
    Charters.  We previously adopted Corporate
    Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate
    Governance section of our website at
    www.harris.com/harris/cg/. In addition, the charters of
    each of the committees of our Board, namely, the Audit
    Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility
    Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and
    Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also
    available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A
    copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon
    written request to our Corporate Secretary at Harris
    Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida
    32919.


 


    Certifications.  We have filed with the SEC the
    certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our
    Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange in
    November 2007 in accordance with the NYSE’s listing
    standards, which included a certification that he was not aware
    of any violation by Harris of the NYSE’s corporate
    governance listing standards.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    We have described many of the trends and other factors that
    could impact our business and future results in
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    In addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and
    financial condition are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth
    below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary
    materially from recent results or our anticipated future results.


 



    We
    participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain
    economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth
    in our markets and, as a result, future income and
    expenditures.





    We participate in markets that are subject to uncertain economic
    conditions. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level
    of growth in some of the markets in which we participate.
    Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are
    dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the
    uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures
    even more difficult. As a result, we may make significant
    investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated
    benefits, which could adversely affect our results of
    operations. The future direction of the overall domestic and
    global economies also will have a significant impact on our
    overall performance.


 



    We
    depend on the U.S. Government for a significant portion of our
    revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in U.S.
    Government funding could have adverse consequences on our future
    business.





    We are highly dependent on sales to the U.S. Government.
    The percentage of our net revenue that was derived from sales to
    the U.S. Government was approximately 68 percent in
    fiscal 2008 and 66 percent in each of fiscal 2007 and
    fiscal 2006. Therefore, any significant disruption or
    deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. Government
    would significantly reduce our revenue. Our U.S. Government
    programs must compete with programs managed by other government
    contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of
    funding. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to
    expand their business relationships with the
    U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the
    future. The U.S. Government may choose to use other
    contractors for its limited number of programs. In addition, the
    funding of programs also competes with non-procurement spending
    of the U.S. Government. Budget decisions made by the
    U.S. Government are outside of our control and have
    long-term consequences for our business. A shift in
    U.S. Government spending to other programs in which we are
    not involved, an increase in non-procurement spending or a
    reduction in U.S. Government spending generally, could have
    material adverse consequences on our future business.


 



    We
    depend significantly on our U.S. Government contracts, which
    often are only partially funded, subject to immediate
    termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination
    or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an
    adverse impact on our business.





    Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be
    implemented by the award of many different individual contracts
    and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs
    is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year
    contracts may be planned or authorized in connection with major
    procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal
    year basis even though a program may continue for several years.
    Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding
    initially, and additional funds are committed only as



    
    18



Table of Contents




    Congress authorizes further appropriations. The termination of
    funding for a U.S. Government program would result in a
    loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program,
    which could have an adverse impact on our operations. In
    addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit
    additional funds to a program that already has been started
    could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of
    doing business.


 


    Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. In
    addition, the contracts generally contain provisions permitting
    termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the
    U.S. Government’s convenience upon the payment only
    for work done and commitments made at the time of termination.
    We can give no assurance that one or more of our
    U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under
    these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we
    would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or
    backlog lost as a result of any termination of our
    U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of
    our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under
    our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more
    large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition.


 


    Our government business also is subject to specific procurement
    regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other
    requirements. These requirements, although customary in
    U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and
    compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future,
    thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect
    on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these
    regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or
    debarment from U.S. Government contracting or
    subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for
    debarment are violations of various laws, including those
    related to procurement integrity, export control,
    U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices,
    protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper
    recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a
    U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any
    of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and
    could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for
    future U.S. Government contracts.


 



    We
    enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses
    in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in
    inflation.





    We have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. In fiscal 2008
    and fiscal 2007, approximately 35 percent and
    33 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of
    our Defense Communications and Electronics and Government
    Communications Systems segments was from fixed-price contracts.
    These contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they
    carry the risk of potential cost overruns because we assume all
    of the cost burden. If our initial estimates are incorrect, we
    can lose money on these contracts. U.S. Government
    contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the
    U.S. Government can hold us responsible for completing a
    project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of
    its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or
    foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of
    the contract. Because many of these contracts involve new
    technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen
    events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the
    price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost
    overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less
    favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. Recently, the
    United States has experienced a significant increase in
    inflation. A continued significant increase in inflation rates
    could also have a significant adverse impact on the
    profitability of these contracts. Furthermore, if we do not meet
    contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate
    contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or
    liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer
    exercises its right to terminate. In addition, some of our
    contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit
    rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those
    contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Our results of
    operations are dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings
    from our contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns and
    cost controls would have an adverse impact on our financial
    results. Furthermore, the potential impact of this risk on our
    financial results would be magnified by a shift in the mix of
    our contracts and programs toward a greater percentage of firm
    fixed-price contracts.


 



    We
    derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international
    operations and are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.





    We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United
    States. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, revenue
    from products exported from the U.S. or manufactured abroad
    was 24 percent, 23 percent and 21 percent,
    respectively, of our total revenue. Approximately
    54 percent of our international business in fiscal 2008 was
    transacted in local currency environments. Losses resulting from
    currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. We
    expect that international revenue will continue to account for a
    significant portion of our total revenue.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    Also, a significant portion of our international revenue is in
    less-developed countries. We are subject to risks of doing
    business internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and
    currency revaluations;








     
        • 

    
    The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments
    relating to investments and operations, as well as
    U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies
    abroad;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of
    tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade
    restrictions;








     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of
    funding, credit or guarantees;








     
        • 

    
    The complexity and necessity of using international dealers,
    distributors, sales representatives and consultants;








     
        • 

    
    The difficulty of managing an organization doing business in
    many countries;








     
        • 

    
    Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as
    well as unforeseen changes in export regulations;








     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for
    onerous contract clauses; and








     
        • 

    
    Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies,
    political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of
    international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation.





 


    While these factors and the impacts of these factors are
    difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition and results of
    operations in the future.


 



    We may
    not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to
    conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent
    proposed sales to certain foreign governments.





    We must first obtain export and other licenses and
    authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before
    we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies
    outside of the United States. For example, the
    U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least
    15-60 days,
    depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to
    authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to
    foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action
    to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we
    will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary
    licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or
    delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability
    to sell products or technologies outside of the United States
    could negatively impact our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Our
    future success will depend on our ability to develop new
    products and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our
    current and future markets.





    Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized
    by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry
    standards. Accordingly, our future performance depends on a
    number of factors, including our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Identify emerging technological trends in our current and target
    markets;








     
        • 

    
    Develop and maintain competitive products;








     
        • 

    
    Enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or
    other features that differentiate our products from those of our
    competitors;








     
        • 

    
    Develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to
    market quickly; and








     
        • 

    
    Effectively structure our businesses, through the use of teaming
    agreements, ventures and other forms of alliances, to reflect
    the competitive environment.





 


    We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future,
    we will need to continue to develop new products and
    technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial
    resources. The need to make these expenditures could divert our
    attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be
    sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely
    development of new products or technologies. Due to the design
    complexity of some of our products and technologies, we may
    experience delays in completing development and introducing new
    products or technologies in the future. Any delays could result
    in increased costs of development or redirect resources from
    other projects. In addition, we cannot provide assurances that
    the markets for our products or technologies will develop as we
    currently anticipate. The failure of our products or
    technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly
    reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot
    be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products
    or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our
    products or technologies, or that our competitors will not
    develop new products or technologies that cause our existing
    products or technologies to become obsolete. If we fail in our
    new product and technology development efforts, or our products
    or technologies fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly
    than those of our



    
    20



Table of Contents




    competitors, our revenue will decline and our business,
    financial condition and results of operations will be adversely
    affected.


 



    We
    cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events,
    but they may affect adversely the markets in which we operate,
    our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our
    profitability.





    The terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11,
    2001, the subsequent
    U.S.-led
    military response, current conflicts in the Middle East and the
    potential for future terrorist activities and other recent
    geo-political events have created economic and political
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our
    business and the prices of our securities. These matters have
    caused uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance
    markets and may increase significantly the political, economic
    and social instability in the geographic areas in which we
    operate. These matters also have caused the premiums charged for
    our insurance coverages to increase and may cause some coverages
    to be unavailable altogether. While our government businesses
    have benefited from homeland defense initiatives and the Global
    War on Terror, these developments may affect adversely our
    business and profitability and the prices of our securities in
    ways that we cannot predict at this time.


 



    We
    have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that
    involve significant risks and uncertainties.





    We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic
    acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
    These risks and uncertainties include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and
    operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the
    risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other
    problems associated with integration;








     
        • 

    
    Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and
    other benefits expected from acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the
    strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be
    successful in those markets;








     
        • 

    
    Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the
    limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the
    financial resources of any indemnifying parties;








     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of key employees of the acquired
    businesses; and








     
        • 

    
    Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our
    existing operations.





 



    The
    inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers
    to timely deliver our components or parts, could cause our
    products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory
    manner.





    On many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. In addition,
    there are certain parts or components for many of our products
    which we source from other manufacturers or vendors. Some of our
    suppliers, from time to time, experience financial and
    operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to
    supply the materials, components and subsystems that we require.
    Any inability to develop alternative sources of supply on a
    cost-effective
    and timely basis could materially impair our ability to
    manufacture and deliver products to our customers. We can give
    no assurances that we will be free from material supply problems
    or component or subsystems problems in the future. Also, our
    subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to maintain
    the quality of the materials, components and subsystems they
    supply, which might result in greater product returns and
    warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe
    upon our intellectual property rights.





    Many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous
    protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which
    often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be
    infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon
    those intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual
    property infringement might also require us to enter into costly
    royalty or license agreements. Moreover, we may not be able to
    obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us,
    or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or
    injunctions against development and sale of certain of our
    products. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary
    technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights,
    trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions
    and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our
    intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully protect
    and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer.
    Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may
    not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or
    scope of our patents or trademark registrations. In addition,
    our patents may not provide us a significant competitive
    advantage. We may be required to spend significant resources to
    monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not
    be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may
    be harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design
    around our technology or develop competing technologies.



    
    21



Table of Contents





    The
    outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is
    unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could
    have a material adverse affect on our financial position and
    results of operations.





    We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are
    involved in a number of arbitrations. These actions may divert
    financial and management resources that would otherwise be used
    to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the
    results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An
    adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a
    material adverse affect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to customer credit risk.





    We sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer
    financing. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a
    portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as
    well as working capital. We also may assist customers in
    obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse
    or non-recourse basis. While we generally have been able to
    place a portion of our customer financings with third-party
    lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a
    portion of these financings is provided directly by us. There
    can be higher risks associated with some of these financings,
    particularly when provided to
    start-up
    operations such as local network providers, to customers in
    developing countries or to customers in specific
    financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. If
    customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be
    incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. Our
    losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to
    place or insure against these risks with third parties. These
    risks may increase when the availability of credit decreases.


 



    We
    face certain significant risk exposures and potential
    liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or
    indemnity.





    We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products
    and services we provide. A significant portion of our business
    relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced
    defense and technology systems and products. New technologies
    associated with these systems and products may be untested or
    unproven. Components of certain of the defense systems and
    products we develop are inherently dangerous. Failures of
    satellites, missile systems, air-traffic control systems,
    homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential
    to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. In most
    circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the
    U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain
    risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate
    to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear
    substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not
    possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational
    risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an
    incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity and our
    insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating
    results and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for
    which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively
    affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby
    making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and
    could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate
    insurance in the future.


 



    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.





    Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a
    number of factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;








     
        • 

    
    Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;








     
        • 

    
    Increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including
    write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and
    impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in available tax credits;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in share-based compensation expense;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in domestic or international tax laws or the
    interpretation of such tax laws; and








     
        • 

    
    The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities.





 


    Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    adversely impact our results of operations for future periods.


 



    Our
    consolidated financial results may be impacted by Harris Stratex
    Networks’ financial results, which may vary significantly
    and be difficult to forecast.





    We consolidate Harris Stratex Networks’ financial results
    in our results of operations. Harris Stratex Networks’
    financial results may vary significantly in the future and may
    be affected by a number of factors (many of which are outside of
    our and Harris Stratex Networks’ control), and accordingly
    are expected to be difficult to forecast. Delays in product
    delivery or closing of a sale can cause quarterly revenues and
    quarterly net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated
    levels. In addition, Harris Stratex Networks may increase
    spending in response to



    
    22



Table of Contents




    competition or in pursuit of new market opportunities.
    Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that Harris Stratex
    Networks will be able to achieve profitability in the future or,
    if profitability is attained, that Harris Stratex Networks will
    be able to sustain profitability, particularly on a
    quarter-to-quarter basis.


 


    Because we consolidate Harris Stratex Networks’ financial
    results in our results of operations, fluctuations in and
    difficulty in forecasting Harris Stratex Networks’
    financial results will result in fluctuations in and likely
    greater difficulty in forecasting our consolidated results of
    operations. As a result, such fluctuations and forecasting
    difficulty may impact our consolidated financial results.
    Additionally, we rely on Harris Stratex Networks to timely
    provide its financial information for us to use in preparing and
    filing with the SEC our consolidated financial statements.
    Delays or other difficulties in Harris Stratex Networks’
    ability to provide on a timely basis financial information that
    accurately reflects its financial results may result in delays
    or other difficulties in our ability to prepare and file with
    the SEC on a timely basis our consolidated financial statements
    that accurately reflect our consolidated results of operations.


 



    We
    have significant operations in Florida, California and other
    locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the
    event of a natural disaster or other significant
    disruption.





    Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our
    Government Communications Systems segment are located in
    Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. In addition, our
    Broadcast Communications and Harris Stratex Networks segments
    have locations near major earthquake fault lines in California.
    Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters
    or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes,
    typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages,
    other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of
    terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications
    failures, and other natural and manmade disasters or
    disruptions. In the event of such a natural disaster or other
    disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to
    our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors,
    resellers or customers; destruction of facilities;
    and/or
    loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs
    and expenses and materially adversely affect our business,
    revenue and financial condition.


 



    Changes
    in future business conditions could cause business investments
    and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in
    substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results
    of operations.





    As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time,
    acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These
    investments are made upon careful target analysis and due
    diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or
    strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain
    assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After
    acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely
    affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not
    recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately 34 percent of our recorded total assets as of
    June 27, 2008. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded
    goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential
    impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on
    several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in
    expected reporting segment cash flows or changes in market
    conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded
    goodwill. For additional information on accounting policies we
    have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under
    “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    and Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies in the
    Notes.


 



    In
    order to be successful, we must attract and retain key
    employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm
    us.





    Our business has a continuing need to attract significant
    numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding
    security clearances, to support our growth and to replace
    individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or
    for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified
    personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case in recent years,
    we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs
    in order to attract and retain such employees, or could
    experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our
    needs for such employees were unmet.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B