Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. All
    forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read
    in conjunction with, those risk factors. Forward-looking
    statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions
    of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
    (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
    Act”), and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed
    by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further
    developments or information obtained after the date of filing of
    this Report or, in the case of any document incorporated by
    reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any
    obligation to do so.



 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS.





 



    HARRIS





    Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an
    international communications and information technology company
    serving government and commercial markets in more than 150
    countries. We are dedicated to developing
    best-in-class
    assured
    communications®

    products, systems and services for global markets, including RF
    communications, integrated network solutions and government
    communications systems.


 


    Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the
    successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal
    executive offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard,
    Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is
    (321) 727-9100.
    Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
    the symbol “HRS.” On July 1, 2011, we employed
    approximately 16,900 people. Unless the context otherwise
    requires, the terms “we,” “our,”
    “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as
    used in this Report refer to Harris Corporation and its
    subsidiaries.


 



    General





    We structure our operations primarily around the products and
    services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the
    financial results of our operations in the following three
    reportable operating segments:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our RF Communications segment, comprised of
    (i) U.S. Department of Defense and International
    Tactical Communications and (ii) Public Safety and
    Professional Communications;








     
        • 

    
    Our Integrated Network Solutions segment, comprised of
    (i) IT Services, (ii) Managed Satellite and
    Terrestrial Communications Solutions, (iii) Healthcare
    Solutions, (iv) Cyber Integrated Solutions and
    (v) Broadcast and New Media Solutions; and








     
        • 

    
    Our Government Communications Systems segment, comprised of
    (i) Civil Programs, (ii) Defense Programs and
    (iii) National Intelligence Programs.





 


    As previously reported and as discussed further in
    Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report (the
    “Notes”), our reportable operating segment structure
    reflects that, in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we realigned
    our operations to provide increased market focus and address the
    fast-growing global market for integrated communications and
    information technology and services. As a result of the
    realignment of our operations, effective for the third quarter
    of fiscal 2011, we formed our Integrated Network Solutions
    segment as a new segment. The new segment realigns IT Services,
    Managed Satellite and Terrestrial





    
    1



Table of Contents





    Communications Solutions, Healthcare Solutions and Cyber
    Integrated Solutions (all of which were formerly under our
    Government Communications Systems segment) with Broadcast and
    New Media Solutions (formerly a separate reportable segment
    called Broadcast Communications). Our RF Communications segment
    did not change. The historical results, discussion and
    presentation of our operating segments as set forth in this
    Report have been adjusted to reflect the impact of these changes
    to our reportable operating segment structure for all periods
    presented in this Report.


 


    In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, in connection with the
    May 27, 2009 spin-off (the “Spin-off”) in the
    form of a taxable pro rata dividend to our shareholders of all
    the shares of Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. (now known as Aviat
    Networks, Inc.) (“HSTX”) common stock owned by us, we
    eliminated our former HSTX operating segment. Our historical
    financial results have been restated to account for HSTX as
    discontinued operations for all periods presented in this
    Report, and unless otherwise specified, disclosures in this
    Report relate solely to our continuing operations. For
    additional information regarding discontinued operations, see
    Note 3: Discontinued Operations in the Notes.


 


    Financial information with respect to all of our other
    activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the
    operating segments or discontinued operations, is reported as
    part of the “Unallocated corporate expense” or
    “Non-operating loss” line items in our Consolidated
    Financial Statements and accompanying Notes.


 



    Recent
    Acquisitions





    Acquisition of CapRock.  On July 30, 2010,
    we acquired privately held CapRock Holdings, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries, including CapRock Communications, Inc.
    (collectively, “CapRock”), a global provider of
    mission-critical, managed satellite communications services for
    the government, energy and maritime industries. CapRock’s
    solutions include broadband Internet access, voice over Internet
    Protocol (“VOIP”) telephony, wideband networking and
    real-time video, delivered to nearly 2,000 customer sites around
    the world. The acquisition of CapRock increased the breadth of
    our assured
    communications®

    capabilities, while enabling us to enter new vertical markets
    and increase our international presence. The total net purchase
    price for CapRock was $517.5 million. We report CapRock as
    part of Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications
    Solutions under our Integrated Network Solutions segment.


 


    Acquisition of Schlumberger GCS.  On
    April 4, 2011, we acquired from Schlumberger B.V. and its
    affiliates (“Schlumberger”) substantially all of the
    assets of the Schlumberger group’s Global Connectivity
    Services business (“Schlumberger GCS”), a provider of
    satellite and terrestrial communications services for the
    worldwide energy industry. The total net purchase price for
    Schlumberger GCS was $380.6 million, subject to
    post-closing adjustments. We report Schlumberger GCS as part of
    Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications Solutions under
    our Integrated Network Solutions segment.


 


    Acquisition of Carefx.  Also on April 4,
    2011, we acquired privately held Carefx Corporation
    (“Carefx”), a provider of interoperability workflow
    solutions for government and commercial healthcare providers.
    Carefx’s solution suite is used by more than 800 hospitals,
    healthcare systems and health information exchanges across
    North America, Europe and Asia. This acquisition expanded
    our presence in government healthcare, provided entry into the
    commercial healthcare market, and is expected to leverage the
    healthcare interoperability workflow products offered by Carefx
    and the broader scale of enterprise intelligence solutions and
    services that we provide. The total net purchase price for
    Carefx was $152.6 million, subject to post-closing
    adjustments. We report Carefx as part of Healthcare Solutions
    under our Integrated Network Solutions segment.


 



    Subsequent
    Event — Share Repurchase Program





    On July 30, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a new
    $1 billion share repurchase program (the “New
    Repurchase Program”) and increased the quarterly cash
    dividend rate on our common stock from $0.25 per share to $0.28
    per share. The New Repurchase Program replaced our prior share
    repurchase program (the “2009 Repurchase Program”),
    which had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately
    $200 million. The New Repurchase Program does not have a
    stated expiration date. We currently expect to repurchase up to
    $500 million in shares under the New Repurchase Program by
    the end of calendar year 2011. The New Repurchase Program is
    expected to result in repurchases well in excess of the dilutive
    effect of shares issued under our share-based incentive plans.
    However, the level of our repurchases depends on a number of
    factors, including our financial condition, capital
    requirements, results of operations, future business prospects
    and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.
    Share repurchases are expected to be funded with available cash
    and commercial paper. Repurchases under the New Repurchase
    Program may be made through open market purchases, private
    transactions, transactions structured through investment banking
    institutions, or any combination thereof. The timing, volume and
    nature of





    
    2



Table of Contents





    share repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable
    securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and
    may be suspended or discontinued at any time.


 



    Financial
    Information About Our Business Segments





    Financial information with respect to our business segments,
    including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets,
    and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is
    contained in Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes
    and is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Description
    of Business by Segment


 



    RF
    Communications





    RF Communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio
    communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for
    military, government and commercial organizations and also of
    secure communications systems and equipment for public safety,
    utility and transportation markets. RF Communications is
    comprised of (i) U.S. Department of Defense and
    International Tactical Communications and (ii) Public
    Safety and Professional Communications.


 


    U.S. Department of Defense and International Tactical
    Communications:  We design, develop and
    manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio communications
    products and systems for manpack, handheld, soldier-worn,
    vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard applications that
    operate in various radio frequency bands —
    high-frequency (“HF”), very high-frequency
    (“VHF”) and ultra high-frequency
    (“UHF”) — as well as in multiband mode and
    over satellite communications (“SATCOM”). These radio
    systems are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of
    supporting diverse mission requirements. Our
    Falcon®

    family of tactical radios is built on a software-defined radio
    platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software
    upgrades. Our Falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded
    encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable
    network communications capability without relying on a fixed
    infrastructure. This capability allows warfighters, for example,
    to remain connected with each other, their command structures
    and support organizations, and provides them the ability to
    communicate information and maintain situational awareness of
    both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both
    the safety and success of their missions. Our Falcon radio
    systems have been widely deployed in multiple variants of Mine
    Resistant Ambush-Protect (“MRAP”) vehicles for the
    U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”).


 


    Unlike many of our competitors in the U.S. Government
    market, we operate this business on a “commercial”
    customer-driven business model, as opposed to a government
    programs-driven business model. This means that we anticipate
    market needs, invest our internal research and development
    resources, build to our internal forecast, and provide
    ready-to-ship,
    commercial,
    off-the-shelf
    (“COTS”) products to customers more quickly than
    customers can typically obtain similar products under
    government-funded programs.


 


    Our Falcon
    III®

    family of radios is the next generation of multiband,
    multi-mission tactical radios supporting the
    U.S. military’s Joint Tactical Radio System
    (“JTRS”) requirements as well as network-centric
    operations worldwide. Our Falcon III radios address the
    full range of current mission and interoperability requirements
    and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical
    standards and mission requirements of the future. Advances in
    our Falcon III radios include extended frequency range,
    significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous
    generations and programmable encryption.


 


    Our Falcon III multiband handheld radio, the AN/PRC-152(C)
    (“152C”), is the world’s most widely deployed
    JTRS-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first
    Falcon III radio to be fielded. We have successfully
    fielded more than 100,000 152Cs, which are widely fielded by all
    branches of the DoD, many allies worldwide and U.S. Federal
    agencies. The 152C offers users a wide range of capabilities,
    such as legacy Single Channel Ground and Airborne System
    (“SINCGARS”) interoperability; UHF
    ground-to-ground
    line-of-sight
    communications; close-air support; tactical SATCOM; and the
    Association of Public Safety Communications
    Officials — International (“APCO”) P25
    waveform to provide direct communications with first responders.
    The 152C also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our
    Falcon III AN/VRC-110, a high-performance, multiband
    vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy vehicle
    dismount — a
    “grab-and-go”
    feature that delivers continuous communications when removed
    from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments.


 


    Our Falcon III multiband manpack radio, the AN/PRC-117G
    (“117G”), is the first JTRS Software Communications
    Architecture (“SCA”)-certified and National Security
    Agency (“NSA”) Type-1 certified manpack radio system
    providing wideband networking capability, enabling the
    transition to a networked battlefield communications environment
    and high-bandwidth applications, including streaming video,
    simultaneous voice and data feeds, intelligence reporting and
    analysis, collaborative chat, route planning, convoy tracking,
    checkpoint biometrics and connectivity to secure networks
    (“SIPRNet”). The 117G uses the Harris-developed
    Adaptive





    
    3



Table of Contents





    Networking Wideband Waveform (“ANW2”) for high
    bandwidth data operation and is designed for future upgrade to
    the JTRS Soldier Radio Waveform (“SRW”). The
    117G’s wideband network access capabilities give
    warfighters and field commanders critical real-time information.
    The 117G has been deployed to all branches of the DoD and is
    being used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne
    applications, including intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance (“ISR”). The 117G includes a Remote
    Operated Video Enhanced Receiver (“ROVER”)
    interoperable mode that provides warfighters on the battlefield
    with the ability to receive live video directly from unmanned
    aerial vehicles (“UAVs”). This capability allows users
    to receive video feeds directly from UAVs without an
    intermediary or having to pass that information from a base
    station.


 


    Our cryptographic solutions encompass NSA-certified products and
    systems that range from single integrated circuits to major
    communications systems, including our
    Sierra®

    and
    Citadel®

    embedded encryption solutions and KGV-72 blue force tracking
    programmable encryption devices and our SecNet
    11®

    and SecNet
    54tm

    Internet Protocol (“IP”) communications families of
    communications security (“COMSEC”) terminals.


 


    In the international market, our tactical radios are the
    standard of NATO and Partnership for Peace countries and have
    been sold to more than 100 countries through our strong,
    longstanding international distribution channels consisting of
    regional sales offices and a broad dealer network. International
    tactical radio demand is being driven by continuing tactical
    communications modernization and standardization programs to
    provide more sophisticated communications capabilities to
    address traditional and emerging threats and to provide
    interoperability. In fiscal 2011, we received tactical radio
    orders from,
    and/or made
    deliveries to, a wide range of international customers,
    including Afghanistan, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico and
    various countries in Africa, Asia and Southeast Asia that we are
    not permitted to name. Additionally, we are providing integrated
    communications systems for the international market. Our
    integrated systems offerings are largely based on our products,
    but include other companies’ products, as well as a wide
    variety of applications, in order to implement integrated
    command, control, communications, computers, intelligence,
    surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) systems for
    many different types of platforms, including command post and
    transit case systems, vehicular and shelter communications
    systems and specialized airborne applications, which are
    frequently used in border security and surveillance systems.


 


    Public Safety and Professional
    Communications:  We supply assured
    communications®

    systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility,
    commercial and transportation markets, with products ranging
    from complete
    end-to-end
    wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced IP
    voice and data networks, that support multiple platforms and
    provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable
    and mobile single-band and multiband, multimode radios, to
    public safety-grade broadband voice, video and data solutions.
    On May 29, 2009, we acquired substantially all of the
    assets of the Tyco Electronics wireless systems business
    (“Wireless Systems”) (formerly known as M/A-COM). Our
    acquisition of Wireless Systems served to form our Public Safety
    and Professional Communications business. This business has more
    than 80 years of experience and supports over
    500 systems around the world.


 


    As part of our business of designing, building, distributing,
    maintaining and supplying wireless communications systems, we
    offer our Voice, Interoperability, Data and Access
    (“VIDA”) network platform — a unified
    IP-based
    voice and data communication system based on APCO P25 industry
    standards that provides network-level interoperable
    communications among public safety agencies and that supports a
    full line of communications systems, including
    OpenSky®,

    NetworkFirst,
    P25IP and

    Enhanced Digital Access Communication System
    (“EDACS”), allowing seamless interconnection of
    diverse systems. Our VIDA network solutions currently serve as
    the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide
    and regional communications networks in North America, including
    the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and State of Florida.


 


    In addition to a full range of single-band land mobile radio
    terminals, we offer our
    Unitytm

    family of multiband radios, including the Unity XG-100P handheld
    radio and the new Unity XG-100M full-spectrum mobile radio for
    vehicles. Our Unity multiband radios cover all public safety
    frequency bands in a single radio; operate on APCO P25
    conventional and trunked systems; are backwards compatible with
    analog FM systems; and include advanced capabilities, such as an
    internal Global Positioning System (“GPS”) receiver
    for situational awareness, internal secure
    Bluetooth®

    wireless technology, and background noise suppression features.
    They also include true software-defined radio architecture that
    allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only
    upgrade to APCO P25 Phase 2, the next-generation emerging
    standard for mission-critical communications. Our Unity
    radios’ multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single
    radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions
    and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems,
    thus providing a significant improvement over most current radio
    systems for U.S. public safety, which are not interoperable
    and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route
    transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured
    at the time of an emergency, and resulting in instances where
    agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each
    other.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    We received two large, multi-year program awards in fiscal 2011,
    both in the third quarter:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A contract by the Government of Alberta, Canada to design and
    build the Alberta First Responders Radio Communications System
    that will provide public safety communications within the
    Province’s
    256,000 square-mile
    area, including an initial order of CAD289 million; and








     
        • 

    
    A 10-year
    price agreement requirements contract by the State of Oregon for
    the Oregon State Radio Project (“OSRP”) program
    designed to improve voice and data interoperability among state,
    local, county, tribal and federal agencies, under which Oregon
    state and local agencies may purchase public safety
    communication systems, radios and other equipment. We received
    an initial order of $50 million under the OSRP contract
    vehicle in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 that includes 4,200
    of our new Unity XG-100M multiband mobile radios.





 


    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the RF Communications segment increased 10.7 percent to
    $2,289 million in fiscal 2011 compared with
    $2,067 million in fiscal 2010, and was $1,761 million
    in fiscal 2009. Segment operating income increased
    11.3 percent to $787.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared
    with $707.4 million in fiscal 2010, and was
    $571.5 million in fiscal 2009. The RF Communications
    segment contributed 39 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2011 compared with 40 percent in fiscal 2010 and
    35 percent in fiscal 2009. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was 31 percent in fiscal 2011 compared with
    20 percent in fiscal 2010 and 39 percent in fiscal
    2009. In fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009,
    U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, accounted for approximately
    63 percent of this segment’s total revenue. For a
    general description of our U.S. Government contracts and
    subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from
    cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts” of this Report.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $1,503 million at July 1, 2011 compared with
    $1,764 million at July 2, 2010 and $922 million
    at July 3, 2009. We expect to fill approximately
    62 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2012, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
    information regarding funded backlog is provided under
    “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded
    Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks
    affecting this segment, including risks relating to our
    U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of
    this Report.


 



    Integrated
    Network Solutions





    Our Integrated Network Solutions segment addresses the
    fast-growing global market for integrated communications and
    information technology and services and provides a variety of
    trusted networking capabilities to support government, energy,
    healthcare, enterprise and broadcast customers. These
    capabilities include mission-critical
    end-to-end
    information technology (“IT”) services; managed
    satellite and terrestrial communications solutions;
    standards-based healthcare interoperability and image management
    solutions; cyber integration and cloud application hosting
    solutions; and digital media management solutions.


 


    IT Services:  We provide
    end-to-end
    solutions in mission-critical IT transformation, IT services and
    information assurance. With over 3,000 professionals performing
    to the highest industry standards, we offer demonstrated past
    performance, proven technical expertise and innovative solutions
    in supporting large-scale IT programs that encompass the full
    technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment,
    operations and ongoing support. Our distributed workforce and
    extensive experience in performance-based contracting and IT
    services are key factors in delivering results to our defense,
    intelligence, homeland security, civil and commercial customers.


 


    Our IT transformation solutions use a holistic approach built on
    proven methodologies to design, implement and manage
    enterprise-wide architectures that align IT goals with
    customers’ business and mission goals. Our standards-based,
    repeatable IT transformation solutions unify, streamline and
    modernize unwieldy and disparate networks and systems across
    distributed environments, resulting in highly simplified,
    flexible, secure and manageable network infrastructures.


 


    Our IT services solutions include outsourced staffing and
    infrastructure, sustained by comprehensive operations and
    maintenance offerings, and are based on a flexible, scalable and
    repeatable service level agreement (“SLA”)





    
    5



Table of Contents





    performance-driven business model, frequently in a fixed-price
    environment. Our IT services solutions use an Information
    Technology Infrastructure Library (“ITIL”)-based
    best-practices approach for optimizing and supporting IT and
    communications environments, improving efficiencies, lowering
    operational costs and allowing customers to focus on mission
    performance.


 


    Our information assurance solutions include architecture
    analysis; attack warning and defense; identity management;
    security assessments; certification and accreditation process
    support; forensics analysis and vulnerability remediation;
    system anomaly monitoring, detection and management; and
    physical security countermeasures. Our information assurance
    solutions safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and
    availability of enterprise infrastructures, systems and critical
    business data over the full IT lifecycle, from infrastructure
    design to integration and testing to operations and maintenance.
    Those solutions meet widely used certification and accreditation
    standards, including the Federal Information Security Management
    Act (“FISMA”), the National Security Agency/Central
    Security Service Information System Certification and
    Accreditation Process (“NISCAP”) and the Department of
    Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
    Process (“DIACAP”).


 


    We design, deploy, operate and support customer-centric, secure
    communications systems and information networks for high-profile
    customers, and examples include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We provide operations and maintenance support at locations
    around the world for the communications functions for the
    U.S. Air Force 50th Space Wing’s Satellite
    Control Network (“AFSCN”), a global, continuously
    operational network of ground stations, operational control
    nodes and communications links that support launch and command
    and control of various space programs managed by the DoD and
    other national security space organizations, under the Network
    and Space Operations and Maintenance (“NSOM”) program;








     
        • 

    
    We provide the U.S. Navy with comprehensive,
    end-to-end
    support for data, video and voice communications for over
    700,000 users as a Tier One subcontractor under the
    Navy/Marine Corps Intranet (“NMCI”) program;








     
        • 

    
    We provide operations, maintenance and support services for the
    global communications and information systems network for the
    National Reconnaissance Office (“NRO”) under a program
    called “Patriot”;








     
        • 

    
    We provide IT integration of installation, training, help desk,
    passport and configuration management services for the
    U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs in
    support of more than 230 U.S. embassies and consulates
    around the world;








     
        • 

    
    We provide system maintenance and engineering for the Defense
    Information Systems Agency (“DISA”) Crisis Management
    System;








     
        • 

    
    We design and manage systems that combine IP television
    (“IPTV”) and digital signage and IT infrastructure to
    create an advanced media workflow for an in-arena network for
    the Orlando Magic’s new basketball arena; and








     
        • 

    
    We provide IT services, content delivery, hardware and software
    for a project in collaboration with Digital Display Networks,
    Inc. and ABC to create one of the largest digital
    out-of-home
    advertising networks in the world,
    7-Eleven®

    TV, which has been installed in over 3,000 7-Eleven stores.





 


    Examples of awards we received in fiscal 2011 include a
    contract, with a potential value of $77 million, by the
    U.S. Army Materiel Command (“AMC”) to provide IT
    infrastructure and follow-on operations and maintenance support
    for the relocation of the AMC Headquarters building to
    Huntsville, Alabama and a nine-year follow-on contract, with a
    potential value of CAD 273 million, by the Government of
    Canada to provide engineering services to support the avionics
    systems on the CF-18 Hornet fighter aircraft under the CF-18
    Avionics Optimized Weapon System Support (“OWSS”)
    program. We also received a contract to install an advanced,
    digital,
    out-of-home
    and IPTV network for the new Madison Square Garden
    Transformation project that will include 1,100 arena displays to
    deliver a dynamic viewing experience to fans.


 


    We also have key positions on a number of Indefinite
    Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts for IT
    services, including as a prime contractor under the
    U.S. Air Force Network Centric Solutions
    (“NETCENTS”) contract and as a prime contractor under
    the U.S. Army ITES-2S contract. Our ITES-2S task orders
    include the AMC Headquarters relocation example above and the
    migration and consolidation of the communications systems for
    nine U.S. Southern Command (“USSOUTHCOM”)
    buildings into a new headquarters complex.


 


    Managed Satellite and Terrestrial Communications
    Solutions:  We are a global provider of managed
    satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, specifically
    for remote and harsh environments including the energy,
    government and maritime industries. We own and operate a robust
    global infrastructure that includes teleports on six continents;
    five network operations centers running 24 hours per day,
    seven days per week; local presence in 23 countries; and over
    275 global field service personnel supporting customer locations
    across North America, Central and South America, Europe, West
    Africa and Asia-Pacific. Our customers include Chevron, Diamond
    Offshore,





    
    6



Table of Contents





    ExxonMobil, Halliburton, MODEC, Shell, Transocean, KBR, Green
    Reefers, Gulf Offshore, Seatrans, Oceaneering, Subsea 7, the
    DoD, the Department of Homeland Security and other Federal
    civilian U.S. Government agencies, and in addition, we are
    a preferred supplier to the Schlumberger group. Our solutions
    include broadband Internet access, VOIP telephony, wideband
    networking and real-time video, delivered to customer sites
    around the world.


 


    Our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions
    operations are the result of our combination in fiscal 2011 of
    (i) CapRock, a global provider of mission-critical, managed
    satellite communications services for the government, energy and
    maritime industries, which we acquired on July 30, 2010;
    (ii) Schlumberger GCS, a provider of satellite and
    terrestrial communications services for the worldwide energy
    industry, which we acquired on April 4, 2011; and
    (iii) the terrestrial network infrastructure assets of the
    government business of Core180, Inc. (the “Core180
    Infrastructure”) that we acquired in the third quarter of
    fiscal 2011, with (iv) our existing Maritime Communications
    Services operations.


 


    Examples of awards we received in fiscal 2011 include the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Four contracts to provide managed network services and more than
    400 MHz of commercial satellite capacity to four separate
    U.S. Government agencies, under which the services provided
    will be used to support a range of missions, including airborne
    ISR, tactical field-deployed communications and continuity of
    operations;








     
        • 

    
    An option-year extension, with a potential value of
    $80 million, on the Defense Information Systems Network
    Access Transport Services (“DATS”) contract with the
    DISA;








     
        • 

    
    Three contracts from intelligence agency customers to provide
    satellite bandwidth, logistics and related communications
    services;








     
        • 

    
    A five-year contract with Schahin Brazil to provide data, voice
    and Internet service to three drilling ships operating in the
    Campos Basin;








     
        • 

    
    14 task orders on the DISN Satellite Transmission
    Services — Global (“DSTS-G”) and Future
    Commercial SATCOM Acquisition (“FCSA”) contracts, with
    a potential value of $150 million, to provide C-, Ku-, and
    X-band space
    segment capacity, monitoring and control, teleport services, and
    operations and maintenance to DoD agency customers operating in
    Asia, Europe, the United States and all major ocean regions;








     
        • 

    
    A three-year master service agreement, with a potential value of
    $58 million, to operate the Offshore Communications
    Backbone (“OCB”), a modular system of seafloor
    communications equipment for deep-ocean observation located in
    the eastern Mediterranean Sea; and








     
        • 

    
    A two-year contract from Odfjell Drilling in Norway for offshore
    satellite communications.





 


    Healthcare Solutions:  We provide enterprise
    intelligence solutions and services for government and
    commercial customers — including systems integration,
    intelligent infrastructure, interoperability, imaging and other
    IT solutions. We are a leader in Federal healthcare IT
    integration, and we also offer commercial providers a full range
    of interoperability solutions, including IT infrastructure and
    management, clinical workflow and analytics, health information
    exchange, and imaging. Our products, systems and services help
    improve healthcare quality, safety, efficiency, cost and
    outcomes by ensuring that the right information travels, with
    security and privacy, to the right person, at the right time, on
    the right device, at the point of care.


 


    For example, we developed under a contract from the Department
    of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) an open-source
    National Health Information Network (“NHIN”) CONNECT
    Gateway solution designed to enable seamless health information
    sharing among multiple Federal agencies and regional healthcare
    providers. We developed a multi-hospital military health network
    with image-sharing capabilities under the DoD Military Health
    System global Healthcare Artifact and Image Management Solution
    (“HAIMS”) program.


 


    In fiscal 2011, we were one of eight companies in the large
    business category awarded the five-year Transformation
    Twenty-One Total Technology (“T4”) IDIQ contracting
    vehicle from the Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”)
    designed to upgrade the VA’s IT system and covering
    services that will streamline and modernize VA operations,
    including patient care delivery at more than 150 VA hospitals.
    We also were awarded a second VA contract vehicle, the Enhance
    the Veteran Experience and Access to HealthCare
    (“EVEAH”) blanket purchase agreement with a ceiling
    value of $199 million, and received initial task orders.
    After the close of fiscal 2011, we were awarded a contract from
    the VA for the Enterprise Management Foundation Federated Data
    Repository (“EMF FDR”) program to create a centralized
    network monitoring system that will provide the VA with a
    unified view of its critical infrastructure.


 


    In addition, we have provided interoperability solutions for
    large-scale health information exchange enterprises such as the
    VA, the DoD and the Social Security Administration. We also have
    extended Federal interoperability solutions to the private
    sector where over half of all care is provided for active duty
    and retired service members. In





    
    7



Table of Contents





    fiscal 2011, we were awarded a four-year contract by the State
    of Florida Agency for Health Care Administration
    (“AHCA”) to implement a statewide health information
    exchange (“HIE”) that will improve the delivery and
    coordination of healthcare. As described under
    “Item 1. Business — Recent
    Acquisitions” of this Report, we acquired Carefx during the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Carefx is a provider of
    interoperability workflow solutions for government and
    commercial healthcare providers, and its solution suite,
    Fusionfx, gives care providers a unified look at patient data
    and closes data gaps to ensure a more consistent, higher quality
    experience for the patient, reducing clinical errors and
    increasing individual productivity.


 


    Also in fiscal 2011, we received an option year extension from
    the VA for healthcare imaging software and systems engineering
    services for the VistA imaging application, and we announced a
    joint venture with Johns Hopkins Medicine to focus on developing
    next-generation medical image management solutions to be
    deployed by the Johns Hopkins Health System and later, to
    hospitals and healthcare providers around the United States.


 


    Cyber Integrated Solutions:  We are working
    closely with government and commercial organizations in
    introducing a new offering to help them move part or all of
    their operations to a trusted cloud computing environment in an
    effective and efficient manner by using our cyber integration
    capabilities to bring together an innovative combination of
    patented trust methodologies, industry-leading technologies,
    partnerships with market leaders and world-class infrastructure.


 


    For example, the Harris Trusted Enterprise
    Cloudtm

    is a newly launched cloud application hosting system that we
    offer as a unique Infrastructure-as-a-Service (“IaaS”)
    designed to enable clients to extend and enhance their IT
    operations in order to improve operational agility and reduce
    costs. Our Trusted Enterprise Cloud solution is delivered via
    The Harris Cyber Integration
    Centertm,

    located in our over 100,000-square-foot advanced data center
    facility in the Mid-Atlantic region. The center is an innovative
    cloud node that was designed from the ground up to offer
    technology and services that meet the highest industry and
    government standards for reliability and security.


 


    Key differentiators in these offerings are our proprietary trust
    enablement technologies, including the Global
    Trust Repository and the Enterprise Trust Server,
    which provide continuous monitoring, assurance, and attestation
    that the software and configurations in the cloud computing
    environment are deployed and operating according to
    specification and have not been compromised, and which we also
    may license to partners and customers. In fiscal 2011, we
    announced a strategic alliance with EMC Corporation and the
    Virtual Computing Environment Company (“VCE”) to
    jointly develop and market new trusted multi-tenant cloud
    solutions to further accelerate the adoption of cloud computing
    IaaS by government and commercial enterprises.


 


    In pursuing these new, high-value applications for our
    capabilities and technologies, we are seeking to leverage our
    experience as an industry leader in cyber security. For example,
    we have been using
    state-of-the-art
    technology assessment techniques and architecture engineering
    for decades to define and operate secure networks supporting
    nationally critical programs, including three of the U.S.’s
    largest, secure mission-critical networks — the
    Federal Aviation Administration Telecommunications
    Infrastructure (“FTI”) program network, the Patriot
    program network and the NMCI program network. Our technology,
    countermeasures and monitoring capabilities safeguard vital
    information systems that support the critical missions of
    U.S. military, intelligence and Federal law enforcement
    customers.


 


    Broadcast and New Media Solutions:  We offer
    hardware and software products, systems and services that
    provide interoperable workflow solutions for broadcast, cable,
    satellite and
    out-of-home
    networks worldwide. The Harris
    ONEtm

    solution brings together highly integrated and cost-effective
    products that enable advanced media workflows for emerging
    content delivery business models. We are supporting customers as
    they upgrade media operations to digital and high definition
    (“HD”) services from analog and standard definition
    (“SD”) services and as they expand services for HD
    television (“HDTV”), IPTV,
    video-on-demand
    and interactive TV. We serve the global digital and analog media
    markets, providing infrastructure and networking products and
    solutions; media and server systems; and television and radio
    transmission equipment and systems.


 


    Our infrastructure and networking solutions offerings enable
    media companies to streamline workflow from production through
    transmission. We offer a portfolio of advanced products,
    including signal processors, routers, master control and
    branding systems, network monitoring and control software, test
    and measurement instruments, multi-image display processors,
    broadcast graphics, and highly differentiated network access and
    multiplex platforms.


 


    Our media and server systems offerings enable customers to
    manage their digital media workflow and storage, as well as
    other key facets of an increasingly file-based broadcast
    environment, through our portfolio of software solutions for
    advertising, media management (traffic, billing and program
    scheduling), digital signage, broadband, digital asset
    management and play-out automation, and our family of scalable,
    interoperable video servers.




    
    8



Table of Contents





    We develop, manufacture and supply television and radio
    transmission systems for delivery of rich media over wireless
    broadcast terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including
    mobile TV applications. We can provide single products or
    end-to-end
    systems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of
    transmitters.


 


    In addition, supporting digital
    out-of-home
    advertising is an emerging growth area, and our solutions enable
    advertisers to reach consumers on the move. We believe new
    systems will be increasingly deployed to deliver rich media
    content in live sports and entertainment venues and in retail
    establishments. For example, we helped design the system of
    IPTV, digital signage and IT infrastructure to create an
    in-arena network for the Orlando Magic’s new basketball
    arena, and we are providing hardware and software supporting
    content delivery for a project in collaboration with Digital
    Display Networks, Inc. and ABC to create one of the largest
    digital
    out-of-home
    advertising networks in the world, 7-Eleven TV, which has been
    installed in over 3,000 7-Eleven stores. In fiscal 2011, we
    installed our first digital signage system in the United Kingdom
    at Harrods, a luxury department store, and began designing an
    advanced, digital,
    out-of-home
    and IPTV network for the new Madison Square Garden
    Transformation project that will include 1,100 arena displays to
    deliver a dynamic viewing experience to fans.


 


    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the Integrated Network Solutions segment increased
    33.7 percent to $1,986 million in fiscal 2011 compared
    with $1,485 million in fiscal 2010, and was
    $1,476 million in fiscal 2009. Segment operating income
    decreased 18 percent to $70.2 million in fiscal 2011
    compared with $85.3 million in fiscal 2010, and there was
    an operating loss of $133.6 million in fiscal 2009, which
    included a $255.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of
    goodwill and other long-lived assets. The Integrated Network
    Solutions segment contributed 34 percent of our total
    revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with 29 percent in both
    fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was approximately 30 percent in fiscal 2011 compared
    with 24 percent in both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009.


 


    The following information pertains to the portions of this
    segment’s IT services, managed satellite and terrestrial
    communications solutions and healthcare solutions operations in
    connection with U.S. Government programs (“Integrated
    Network Solutions’ government business”):


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Some of the more significant programs in fiscal 2011 included
    NETCENTS, Patriot, NMCI, DATS and NSOM;








     
        • 

    
    The largest program by revenue in a particular fiscal year
    represented approximately 7 percent of this segment’s
    total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with approximately
    10 percent in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009;








     
        • 

    
    The five largest programs by revenue in a particular fiscal year
    represented approximately 27 percent of this segment’s
    total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with approximately
    37 percent in fiscal 2010 and approximately 36 percent
    in fiscal 2009;








     
        • 

    
    U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, whether directly or through
    prime contractors, accounted for approximately 55 percent
    of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared
    with approximately 64 percent in fiscal 2010 and
    approximately 57 percent in fiscal 2009.








     
        • 

    
    For Integrated Network Solutions’ government business, in
    fiscal 2011, approximately 78 percent of revenue was under
    direct contracts with customers and approximately
    22 percent of revenue was under contracts with prime
    contractors, compared with approximately 61 percent of
    revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately
    39 percent of revenue under contracts with prime
    contractors in fiscal 2010 and approximately 58 percent of
    revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately
    42 percent of revenue under contracts with prime
    contractors in fiscal 2009.





 


    For a general description of our U.S. Government contracts
    and subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated
    from cost-reimbursable versus fixed-price contracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts” of this Report.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $1,064 million at July 1, 2011 compared with
    $649 million at July 2, 2010 and $632 million at
    July 3, 2009. Unfunded backlog for this segment was
    $1,295 million at July 1, 2011 compared with
    $772 million at July 2, 2010 and $780 million at
    July 3, 2009. We expect to fill approximately
    87 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2012, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
    information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided
    under “Item 1. Business — Funded and
    Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment,





    
    9



Table of Contents





    including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts
    and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business —
    Principal Customers; Government Contracts,”
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Report.


 



    Government
    Communications Systems





    Government Communications Systems conducts advanced research and
    produces, integrates and supports highly reliable, net-centric
    communications and information technology that solve the
    mission-critical challenges of our civilian, defense and
    intelligence government customers, primarily the
    U.S. Government, and is comprised of (i) Civil
    Programs, (ii) Defense Programs and (iii) National
    Intelligence Programs.


 


    Civil Programs:  We provide highly reliable,
    mission-critical communications and information processing
    systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the
    U.S. civilian Federal market, including the Federal
    Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and the National
    Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”). We
    use our ability to implement and manage large, complex programs
    that integrate secure, advanced communications and information
    processing technologies in order to improve productivity and
    information processing and to achieve cost savings for our
    customers. Our networks and information systems for large-scale,
    geographically dispersed enterprises offer advanced capabilities
    for collecting, processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying,
    distributing, storing and retrieving data. We are a leader in
    satellite ground data processing and mission
    command-and-control
    (“C2”) systems. Our ground data processing systems
    consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive
    sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable
    information. Our C2 systems feature COTS design and high levels
    of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial
    applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as
    some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed.


 


    For example, we are the prime contractor and system architect
    under a
    15-year
    contract awarded in July 2002, with a potential value of
    $3.5 billion, for the FTI program to integrate, modernize,
    operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the
    U.S. air traffic control system. FTI is a modern, secure
    and efficient network providing voice, data and video
    communications deployed at more than 4,500 FAA sites across the
    United States to enhance network efficiency, reliability and
    security and to improve service while reducing operating costs.
    We designed and deployed the FTI network and it is fully
    operational. The FTI network consists of the Operations Network,
    the Mission Support Network, the Satellite Network and the
    Microwave Network. The supporting infrastructure includes the
    Network Operations Control Centers (“NOCCs”) and
    Security Operations Control Centers (“SOCCs”). The FTI
    program has completed its equipment build-out phase and is
    transitioning to its telecommunication services and maintenance
    phase.


 


    Other FAA programs under which we have developed solutions
    include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Operational and Supportability Implementation System
    (“OASIS”), for which we are the prime contractor and
    which provides integrated weather briefing and flight planning
    capabilities for preflight weather briefings and in-flight
    updates for Alaska’s general aviation community. In fiscal
    2011, we were awarded a follow-on contract by the FAA to upgrade
    and manage the OASIS system;








     
        • 

    
    The Weather and Radar Processor (“WARP”) system, a
    meteorological data processing system serving the en-route air
    traffic control environment that generates radar mosaic data for
    air traffic controller displays and delivers weather data to
    critical subsystems within the National Airspace System
    (“NAS”). In fiscal 2010, we were awarded a six-year
    contract, with a potential value of $97 million, by the FAA
    under the WARP Maintenance and Sustainment Services II
    program to continue to maintain the WARP system by providing
    hardware and software maintenance, depot support,
    on-site
    field support and engineering services at 22 operational
    FAA facilities in the United States;








     
        • 

    
    The Voice Switching and Control System (“VSCS”), which
    provides the critical
    air-to-ground
    communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic
    controllers throughout the continental
    United States.; and








     
        • 

    
    The satellite-based Alaskan NAS Interfacility Communications
    System (“ANICS”), which links the Alaskan Air Route
    Traffic Control Center in Anchorage with 64 FAA facilities
    throughout the region. After the close of fiscal 2011, we were
    selected as the prime contractor under the Alaska Satellite
    Telecommunications Infrastructure (“ASTI”) program for
    a 10-year
    contract, with a potential value of $85 million, from the
    FAA to upgrade the ANICS network by replacing and upgrading
    components and providing a new network management system, system
    security enhancements, logistics support and training in order
    to increase network performance and availability while reducing
    the FAA’s operating and maintenance costs.





 


    Another example of our capabilities relates to NOAA’s
    Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite —
    Series R (“GOES-R”) Ground and Antenna Segment
    weather programs. Under two ten-year contracts, with an
    aggregate potential value of approximately $1 billion
    (including change orders), we are providing a complete,





    
    10



Table of Contents





    end-to-end
    solution in which we will design, develop, deploy and operate
    the ground segment system that will receive and process
    satellite data and generate and distribute weather data to more
    than 10,000 direct users, as well as providing the command and
    control of operational satellites. We also are supplying
    antennas and control systems that will provide communications
    links for command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the
    communications link to direct data users. The new antennas will
    operate with next-generation GOES-R satellites and will be
    compatible with existing GOES-N through GOES-P satellites.


 


    Defense Programs:  We develop, supply and
    integrate communications and information processing products,
    systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace,
    terrestrial and maritime applications supporting DoD missions,
    and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies
    that support the ongoing transformations of military
    communications for U.S. and international customers. Our
    technologies are providing advanced mobile wideband networking
    capabilities to assure timely and secure network-centric
    capabilities across strategic, operational and tactical
    boundaries in support of the DoD’s full spectrum of
    warfighting, intelligence and logistics missions. Our major
    technology capabilities include advanced ground control systems
    and SATCOM terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and
    shipboard applications; flat-panel, phased-array and
    single-mission antennas; advanced aviation electronics for
    military jets, including digital maps, modems, sensors, data
    buses, fiber optics and microelectronics; and high-speed data
    links and data networks for wireless communications.


 


    For example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the
    military to take its communications infrastructure with it,
    creating mobile, robust, self-forming and self-healing networks
    across the battlefield. Our Highband Networking
    Radiotm

    (“HNR”) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth,
    on-the-move
    communications among users of widely dispersed local area
    networks (“LANs”) by establishing
    line-of-sight
    connectivity using directive beam antenna technology and a
    Harris-developed waveform that automatically selects the best
    communications path available, allowing seamless communication
    of voice, video and data to all levels of command. We announced
    in fiscal 2009 that our HNR system was deployed to the
    U.S. Army 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault)
    2nd Brigade Combat Team in Iraq, which was the first combat
    deployment of the HNR system. In fiscal 2010, we were awarded a
    contract to provide HNRs to form the communications backbone of
    the U.S. Army’s new Integrated Air and Missile Defense
    Battle Command System (“IBCS”). We are currently
    producing and delivering HNRs under the U.S. Army’s
    Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (“WIN-T”)
    program, and also we were awarded a contract in the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2011 from the U.S. Army for rapid
    deployment of HNRs into Afghanistan.


 


    In fiscal 2011, we also introduced
    Knighthawktm

    3G, a ruggedized, highly mobile tactical base station that
    enables warfighters on the move to maintain third generation
    (“3G”) cellular services in locations with limited or
    no cellular connectivity. Knighthawk 3G is a customizable
    cellular network in a box compatible with COTS equipment,
    including smartphones and tablets.


 


    Examples of ongoing programs for us include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals
    (“MET”) program, for which we are developing, under a
    ten-year contract, with a potential value of $600 million,
    awarded to us in fiscal 2009, next-generation large satellite
    earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for
    high-priority military communications and missile defense
    systems and to support IP and Dedicated Circuit Connectivity
    within the Global Information Grid (“GIG”), providing
    critical reach-back capability for the warfighter;








     
        • 

    
    The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”), F-22 Raptor
    and
    F/A-18E/F
    Super Hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide
    high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber
    optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image
    processing, digital map software and other electronic
    components, including Multifunction Advanced Data Link
    (“MADL”) communications subsystems primarily intended
    for stealth platform
    air-to-air
    communications and which allow F-35s to communicate in a stealth
    fashion with other network nodes without revealing their
    positions;








     
        • 

    
    The WIN-T program for the U.S. Army, for which we are
    designing and testing the wireless transmission system
    architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for
    wireless
    on-the-move
    communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure
    wireless network solutions such as our HNR system; and








     
        • 

    
    The Commercial Broadband Satellite Program (“CBSP”)
    for the U.S. Navy, for which we supply broadband multiband
    SATCOM terminals that support essential mission requirements and
    provide enhanced morale-related communications services such as
    high-speed Internet access and video communications.





 


    National Intelligence Programs:  A significant
    portion of this business involves classified programs. While
    classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report,
    the operating results relating to classified programs are
    included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe
    that the business risks associated with those programs do not
    differ materially from the business risks of other
    U.S. Government programs.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    We are a major developer, supplier and integrator of
    communications and information processing products, systems and
    networks for a diverse base of U.S. Intelligence Community
    programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the
    Intelligence Community into a more collaborative enterprise.
    Serving primarily national intelligence and security agency
    customers, including NSA, NRO and the National
    Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”), we provide
    integrated ISR solutions that improve situational awareness,
    data collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating
    near real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for
    display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and
    decision makers. Our ISR systems help to integrate information
    across the analyst workflow, accelerating the movement of
    information that has been collected and processed. We strive to
    produce innovative ISR solutions that provide our customers with
    information dominance for battle-space superiority.


 


    For example, our image processing capabilities extend from
    algorithm development through delivery of operations systems,
    and we are providing advanced image exploitation and
    dissemination solutions for ISR applications by advancing image
    processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital
    product generation techniques. Those technologies range from new
    techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated
    techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization.
    Also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide
    complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the
    terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple
    opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing
    data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or
    from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world
    in fractions of a second. In addition, we have industry-leading
    capabilities in the architecture, design and development of
    highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays
    and on-board processors, which are used to enable
    next-generation satellite systems to provide the
    U.S. military and intelligence communities with strategic
    and tactical advantages. We are also a leader in the design and
    development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial
    space telecommunications applications. Further, our capabilities
    include developing and supplying
    state-of-the-art
    wireless voice and data products and solutions, including
    surveillance and tracking equipment, spanning vehicular,
    man-portable, airborne and system-level applications for the
    U.S. Intelligence Community and law enforcement community.
    We also offer cyber security solutions and enterprise analytics,
    including an array of mission-enabling engineering solutions
    that address both offensive and defensive IT security
    challenges, providing critical support to Federal law
    enforcement and other U.S. Government agencies.


 


    During fiscal 2011, we were awarded a number of new contracts
    and follow-on contracts under classified programs. We also were
    awarded a
    30-month
    contract by Sierra Nevada Corporation to design, build and
    integrate the synthetic aperture radar (“SAR”)
    satellite payload as part of NASA’s Rapid Response Space
    Works and Modular Space Vehicles program; a three-year contract
    from Boeing Space and Intelligence Systems to build
    Ka-band
    antennas for three Inmarsat-5 satellites; and a three-year
    contract from Boeing Space and Intelligence Systems for a
    22-meter deployable L-band reflector to support military and
    civil communications in Mexico.


 


    In addition, our full motion video (“FMV”) initiatives
    support the ISR market for FMV products and systems, including
    all U.S. Government, international military and Federal law
    enforcement activities for the Harris Full Motion Video Asset
    Management Engine
    (“FAMEtm”)

    architecture and related technologies. FAME is a COTS-based
    collaborative platform that provides video, audio and metadata
    coding, video analytics, and archive capabilities —
    all within a unified digital asset management
    solution — giving our customers greater visibility and
    better access to increasing amounts of digital ISR information,
    including higher-resolution FMV, motion imagery and visual
    imagery, such as that collected from manned and unmanned
    aircraft and ground-based sensors.


 


    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the Government Communications Systems segment increased
    1.7 percent to $1,777 million in fiscal 2011 compared
    with $1,747 million in fiscal 2010, and was
    $1,864 million in fiscal 2009. Segment operating income was
    $227.0 million in fiscal 2011 compared with
    $227.4 million in fiscal 2010 and $199.2 million in
    fiscal 2009. This segment contributed 30 percent of our
    total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with 34 percent in
    fiscal 2010 and 37 percent in fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2011,
    approximately 70 percent of revenue for this segment was
    under direct contracts with customers and approximately
    30 percent of revenue was under contracts with prime
    contractors, compared with approximately 73 percent of
    revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately
    27 percent of revenue under contracts with prime
    contractors in fiscal 2010 and approximately 72 percent of
    revenue under direct contracts with customers and approximately
    28 percent of revenue under contracts with prime
    contractors in fiscal 2009. Some of this segment’s more
    significant programs in fiscal 2011 included FTI, GOES-R, F-35,
    MET, WIN-T and various classified and space communications
    systems programs. This segment’s largest program by revenue
    in a particular fiscal year represented approximately
    14 percent of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2011
    compared with approximately 14 percent in fiscal 2010 and
    approximately 19 percent in fiscal 2009. This
    segment’s ten largest programs by revenue in a particular
    fiscal year represented approximately 46 percent of this
    segment’s revenue in fiscal 2011,





    
    12



Table of Contents





    compared with approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2010 and
    approximately 50 percent in fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2011,
    this segment had a diverse portfolio of approximately 200
    programs. U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, accounted for approximately
    97 percent of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal
    2011 compared with approximately 94 percent in both fiscal
    2010 and fiscal 2009. For a general description of our
    U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a
    discussion of revenue generated from cost-reimbursable versus
    fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1.
    Business — Principal Customers; Government
    Contracts” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $800 million at July 1, 2011 compared with
    $848 million at July 2, 2010 and $762 million at
    July 3, 2009. Unfunded backlog for this segment was
    $3,193 million at July 1, 2011 compared with
    $2,504 million at July 2, 2010 and $3,223 million
    at July 3, 2009. We expect to fill approximately
    81 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2012, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
    information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided
    under “Item 1. Business — Funded and
    Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating
    to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of
    this Report.


 



    International
    Business





    Revenue from products and services exported from the United
    States (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or
    rendered abroad was $1,307.1 million (22 percent of
    our total revenue) in fiscal 2011 compared with
    $724.6 million (14 percent of our total revenue) in
    fiscal 2010 and $1,016.6 million (20 percent of our
    total revenue) in fiscal 2009. Essentially all of the
    international sales are derived from our RF Communications and
    Integrated Network Solutions segments. Direct export sales are
    primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas sales from
    foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local
    currency of the subsidiary. Financial information regarding our
    domestic and international operations is contained in
    Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes and is
    incorporated herein by reference.


 


    Our principal international manufacturing facilities are located
    in Canada and the United Kingdom. The majority of our
    international marketing activities are conducted through
    subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, Central and South
    America, and Asia. We have also established international
    marketing organizations and several regional sales offices.
    Reference is made to Exhibit 21 “Subsidiaries of the
    Registrant” of this Report for further information
    regarding our international subsidiaries.


 


    We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers,
    distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and
    sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically
    and internationally. These independent representatives may buy
    for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or
    governmental customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the
    ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or
    established by the independent representative and may be above
    or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally
    receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those
    prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer.
    Revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2011 represented
    10 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    40 percent of our international revenue, compared with
    revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2010 representing
    6 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    35 percent of our international revenue, and revenue from
    indirect sales channels in fiscal 2009 representing
    11 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    55 percent of our international revenue.


 


    Fiscal 2011 international revenue came from a large number of
    countries, and no such single country accounted for more than
    4 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are
    paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either
    on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments,
    progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or
    upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred.
    Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to
    provide performance guarantees. In order to stay competitive in
    international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and
    vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain
    customers.


 


    The particular economic, social and political conditions for
    business conducted outside the United States differ from those
    encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that
    the overall business risk for the international business as a
    whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic
    operations as a whole. A description of the types of risks to
    which we are subject in international business is contained in
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.
    Nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are
    partially mitigated by the diversification of the international
    business and the protection provided by letters of credit and
    advance payments.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    Competition





    We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to
    technological advances. Although successful product and systems
    development is not necessarily dependent on substantial
    financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our
    businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels
    of expenditures for research and development. In each of our
    businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our
    management believes are compatible with our resources, overall
    technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive
    factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability;
    technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability
    to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability
    to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party
    sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness.
    Within the IT services market, there is intense competition
    among many companies. The ability to compete in the IT services
    market depends on a number of factors, including the capability
    to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the
    diverse spectrum of the IT services market.


 


    In the RF Communications segment, principal competitors include
    European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company N.V.
    (“EADS”), General Dynamics, ITT Industries, Motorola
    Solutions, Raytheon, Rohde & Schwarz, Tadiran and
    Thales.


 


    In the Integrated Network Solutions segment, principal
    competitors include Avid, Computer Sciences Corporation, Evertz,
    EVS Corporation, General Dynamics, Globecomm, Harmonic,
    Hewlett Packard, Lockheed Martin, ManTech, Miranda, MTN, NCI
    Information Systems, NEC, Northrop Grumman, Omnibus, Raytheon,
    RigNet, Rohde & Schwarz, Sony Broadcast, Stratos, TCS,
    Technicolor, Tektronix/Danaher, Telos Corporation, Thomson, and
    Vizada, as well as other smaller companies and divisions of
    large companies.


 


    In the Government Communications Systems segment, principal
    competitors include BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics, L-3
    Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon and
    Rockwell Collins. We frequently “partner” or are
    involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with
    companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other
    programs.


 



    Principal
    Customers; Government Contracts





    Sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, were 72 percent of our total
    revenue in fiscal 2011 compared with 75 percent in fiscal
    2010 and 74 percent in fiscal 2009. No other customer
    accounted for more than 1 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2011. Additional information regarding customers for each
    of our segments is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Description of Business by Segment” of
    this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly
    derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors
    to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales of our
    Government Communications Systems segment and of the portions of
    our Integrated Networks Solutions segment’s IT services,
    managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions and
    healthcare solutions operations in connection with
    U.S. Government programs are made directly or indirectly to
    the U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts
    containing standard government contract clauses providing for
    redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination
    for the convenience of the U.S. Government or for default
    based upon performance.


 


    Our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include both
    cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Governmentwide
    Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”) and IDIQ contracts,
    which can include task orders for each contract type, require us
    to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual
    task or delivery orders under such contracts.


 


    Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for
    the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee.
    Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts fall into
    three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which
    provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final
    cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee
    contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee,
    within specified limits, based upon actual results compared with
    contractual targets relating to factors such as cost,
    performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus
    award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award
    fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the
    performance of the contractor against pre-established
    performance criteria. Under our U.S. Government
    cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for
    allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on
    contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially
    or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or
    regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition costs,
    lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation
    defense costs.


 


    Our U.S. Government fixed-price contracts are either firm
    fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under
    our U.S. Government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to
    perform a specific scope of work for a





    
    14



Table of Contents





    fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and
    carry the burden of cost overruns. Under our
    U.S. Government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share
    with the U.S. Government both savings accrued from
    contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs
    incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price
    (which is higher than the target cost), but carry the entire
    burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price.
    Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be
    adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance
    objectives are met. Under our U.S. Government firm
    fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually
    receive either milestone payments equaling 100 percent of
    the contract price or monthly progress payments from the
    U.S. Government in amounts equaling 80 percent of
    costs incurred under the contract. The remaining amounts,
    including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery
    and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the
    contract. Our U.S. Government fixed-price contracts
    generally have higher profit margins than our
    U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts. Our production
    contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development
    contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts.


 


    As stated above, U.S. Government contracts are terminable
    for the convenience of the U.S. Government, as well as for
    default based on performance. Companies supplying goods and
    services to the U.S. Government are dependent on
    Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of
    funds and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government
    policies resulting from various military, political, economic
    and international developments. Long-term U.S. Government
    contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if
    appropriations for subsequent performance periods become
    unavailable. Under contracts terminable for the convenience of
    the U.S. Government, a contractor is entitled to receive
    payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the
    proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done.
    Contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that
    the U.S. Government pays only for the work it has accepted
    and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost
    of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages.
    In many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the
    complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and
    difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on
    developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Under
    many U.S. Government contracts, we are required to maintain
    facility and personnel security clearances complying with DoD
    and other Federal agency requirements. For further discussion of
    risks relating to U.S. Government contracts, see
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Report.


 



    Funded
    and Unfunded Backlog





    Our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was
    approximately $7,786 million at July 1, 2011 compared
    with approximately $6,526 million at July 2, 2010 and
    $6,317 million at July 3, 2009. The funded portion of
    this backlog was approximately $3,358 million at
    July 1, 2011 compared with approximately
    $3,250 million at July 2, 2010 and $2,315 million
    at July 3, 2009. The determination of backlog involves
    substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer
    requirements contracts and development and production contracts
    of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature.


 


    We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products
    and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the
    case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated. We define
    unfunded backlog as primarily unfilled firm contract value for
    which funding has not yet been authorized or, in the case of
    U.S. Government agencies, appropriated, including the value
    of contract options in cases of material contracts that have
    options we believe are probable of being exercised. We do not
    include potential task or delivery orders under IDIQ contracts
    in our backlog. In fiscal 2012, we expect to fill approximately
    75 percent of our total funded backlog as of July 1,
    2011. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or
    that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular
    period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and
    program cancellations, which are beyond our control. Additional
    information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments
    is provided under “Item 1. Business —
    Description of Business by Segment” of this Report.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering





    Research, development and engineering expenditures totaled
    approximately $983 million in fiscal 2011,
    $1,047 million in fiscal 2010 and $1,003 million in
    fiscal 2009. Company-sponsored research and product development
    costs, which included research and development for commercial
    products and services and independent research and development
    related to government products and services, as well as concept
    formulation studies and bid and proposal efforts, were
    approximately $336 million in fiscal 2011,
    $326 million in fiscal 2010 and $244 million in fiscal
    2009. A portion of our independent research and development
    costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process
    under U.S. Government contractual arrangements.
    Company-sponsored research and product development costs not
    otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. The
    portion of total research, development and engineering
    expenditures that was not company-sponsored was funded by the
    U.S. Government and is included in our revenue.
    Customer-sponsored research and development was
    $647 million





    
    15



Table of Contents





    in fiscal 2011, $721 million in fiscal 2010 and
    $759 million in fiscal 2009. Company-sponsored research is
    directed to the development of new products and services and to
    building technological capability in selected communications and
    electronic systems markets. U.S. Government-funded research
    helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. All of
    our segments maintain their own engineering and new product
    development departments, with scientific assistance provided by
    advanced-technology departments. As of July 1, 2011, we
    employed approximately 7,100 engineers and scientists and are
    continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of
    our operating segments available for all other operating
    segments.


 



    Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property





    We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the
    aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We routinely apply
    for and own a large and valuable portfolio of patents, trade
    secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks,
    copyrights and other intellectual property. We also license
    intellectual property to and from third parties. As of
    July 1, 2011, we held approximately 950 U.S. patents
    and 850 foreign patents, and had approximately 500
    U.S. patent applications pending and 1,140 foreign patent
    applications pending. Unpatented research, development and
    engineering skills also make an important contribution to our
    business. While our intellectual property rights in the
    aggregate are important to our business and the operations of
    our operating segments, we do not consider our business or any
    operating segment to be materially dependent upon any single
    patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any
    group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual
    property rights. We are engaged in a proactive patent licensing
    program and have entered into a number of licenses and
    cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income.
    Although existing license agreements have generated income in
    past years and may do so in the future, there can be no
    assurances we will enter into additional income-producing
    license agreements. From time to time we engage in litigation to
    protect our patents and other intellectual property. Any of our
    patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other
    proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or
    circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. For
    further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property,
    see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. With
    regard to patents relating to our Government Communications
    Systems segment, the U.S. Government often has an
    irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to
    which the U.S. Government may use or authorize others to
    use the inventions covered by such patents. Pursuant to similar
    arrangements, the U.S. Government may consent to our use of
    inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. Numerous
    trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also
    considered to be a valuable asset.


 



    Environmental
    and Other Regulations





    Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic
    and international laws and regulations designed to protect the
    environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions.
    The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common
    within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve.
    We believe that we have complied with these requirements and
    that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    Based upon currently available information, we do not expect
    expenditures over the next several years to protect the
    environment and to comply with current environmental laws and
    regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending
    climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords,
    to have a material impact on our competitive position or
    financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such
    expenditures will not exceed current expectations. If future
    treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent
    requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may
    be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. We
    have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control
    equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste
    minimization and prevention goals. We did not spend material
    amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2011, fiscal
    2010 or fiscal 2009. A portion of our environmental expenditures
    relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained
    certain environmental liabilities. We currently expect that
    amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects
    will not be material in fiscal 2012. These amounts may increase
    in future years. Additional information regarding environmental
    and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Report and in Note 1:
    Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes.


 


    Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental
    regulation in a number of jurisdictions. Equipment produced by
    our Integrated Network Solutions segment, in particular, is
    subject to domestic and international requirements requiring
    end-of-life
    management
    and/or
    restricting materials in products delivered to customers,
    including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on
    Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and
    Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of certain
    Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
    (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted
    similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not
    applicable to most equipment produced by our Government
    Communications Systems





    
    16



Table of Contents





    and RF Communications segments. We believe that we have complied
    with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect
    to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend
    to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our
    future products.


 


    Broadcast and wireless communications (whether TV, radio,
    satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to
    governmental regulation. Equipment produced by our Integrated
    Network Solutions and RF Communications segments, in particular,
    is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid
    interference among users of radio and television frequencies and
    to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment.
    Additionally, our managed satellite and terrestrial
    communications solutions operations hold licenses for very small
    aperture terminals (“VSATs”) and satellite earth
    stations, which authorize operation of networks and teleports.
    We are also required to comply with technical operating and
    licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and
    operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and
    regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products
    and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and
    regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and
    services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum
    also could impact our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Raw
    Materials and Supplies





    Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well
    as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use
    numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as
    electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and
    plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. We are
    dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number
    of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers
    and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials
    restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications
    and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent upon
    one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature
    of a particular item or because of local content preference
    requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project.
    While we have been affected by financial and performance issues
    of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been
    materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw
    materials or products. On occasion, we have experienced
    component shortages from vendors as a result of natural
    disasters, or the RoHS environmental regulations in the European
    Union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. These
    events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain
    electronic components (such as lead-free components), resulting
    in industry-wide supply chain shortages. To date, these
    component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on
    our business. For further discussion of risks relating to
    subcontractors and suppliers, see “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” of this Report.


 



    Seasonality





    We do not consider any material portion of our business to be
    seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our
    revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of
    contract awards and the timing and availability of
    U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product
    deliveries and customer acceptance.


 



    Employees





    We employed approximately 16,900 employees at the end of
    fiscal 2011 compared with approximately 15,800 employees at
    the end of fiscal 2010. Approximately 88 percent of our
    employees as of the end of fiscal 2011 were located in the
    United States. A significant number of employees in our
    Government Communications Systems segment possess a
    U.S. Government security clearance. We also utilize a
    number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the
    United States is represented by a labor union. In certain
    international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by
    workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we
    believe that our relations with our employees are good.


 



    Website
    Access to Harris Reports; Available Information





    General.  We maintain an Internet website at
    http://www.harris.com.
    Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available
    free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable
    after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished
    to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
    We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form
    free of charge upon request. We also make available free of
    charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and
    proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon
    are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other
    periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All
    reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available
    free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and
    retrieval (“EDGAR”) system available through the
    SEC’s website at
    http://www.sec.gov.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    Additional information relating to our businesses, including our
    operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” of this Report.


 


    Corporate Governance Principles and Committee
    Charters.  We previously adopted Corporate
    Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate
    Governance section of our website at
    www.harris.com/harris/cg/. In addition, the charters of
    each of the standing committees of our Board, namely, the Audit
    Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility
    Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and
    Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also
    available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A
    copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon
    written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation,
    1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919.


 


    Certifications.  We have filed with the SEC the
    certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In
    addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief
    Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange
    (“NYSE”) in November 2010 in accordance with the
    NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification
    that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the
    NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    We have described many of the trends and other factors that we
    believe could impact our business and future results in
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this
    Report. In addition, our business, operating results, cash flows
    and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially
    adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties,
    including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of
    which could cause our actual results to vary materially from
    recent results or our anticipated future results.


 



    We
    depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of
    our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in
    U.S. Government funding priorities could have adverse
    consequences on our future business.





    We are highly dependent on sales to U.S. Government
    customers. The percentage of our net revenue that was derived
    from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD
    and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign
    military sales through the U.S. Government, whether
    directly or through prime contractors, was approximately
    72 percent in fiscal 2011, 75 percent in fiscal 2010
    and 74 percent in fiscal 2009. Therefore, any significant
    disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the
    U.S. Government would significantly reduce our revenue. Our
    U.S. Government programs must compete with programs managed
    by other government contractors for limited resources and for
    uncertain levels of funding. Our competitors continuously engage
    in efforts to expand their business relationships with the
    U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the
    future, and the U.S. Government may choose to use other
    contractors. We expect that a majority of the business that we
    seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through
    competitive bidding. The U.S. Government has increasingly
    relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a
    competitive bidding process, including IDIQ, GWAC, General
    Services Administration (“GSA”) Schedule and other
    multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition
    and increased pricing pressure. We operate in highly competitive
    markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more
    specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing
    capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to
    continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain
    task orders under multi-award contracts. Further, the
    competitive bidding process involves significant cost and
    managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that
    may not be awarded to us, and the risk that we may fail to
    accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill
    any contract awarded to us. Following any contract award, we may
    experience significant expense or delay, contract modification
    or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting
    or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding.
    Budget decisions made by the U.S. Government are outside of
    our control and have long-term consequences for our business. A
    shift in U.S. Government spending priorities or an increase
    in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs (for
    example, through “in-sourcing”), or a reduction in
    total U.S. Government spending, could have material adverse
    consequences on our future business.


 



    We
    depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often
    are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and
    heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to
    fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact
    on our business.





    Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be
    implemented by the award of many different individual contracts
    and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs
    is subject to Congressional appropriations.





    
    18



Table of Contents





    Although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated
    in connection with major procurements, Congress generally
    appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. Procurement funds are
    typically made available for obligation over the course of three
    years. Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding
    initially, and additional funds are obligated only as Congress
    authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding
    for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of
    anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which
    could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the
    termination of a program or the failure to commit additional
    funds to a program that already has been started could result in
    lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business.


 


    Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. Such
    audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any
    costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract
    will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must
    be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs
    we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know
    the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be
    required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon
    completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit
    findings could also result in termination of a contract,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspension or prohibition from doing business with the
    U.S. Government.


 


    In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally contain
    provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without
    prior notice at the U.S. Government’s convenience upon
    the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time
    of termination. We can give no assurance that one or more of our
    U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under
    these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we
    would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or
    backlog lost as a result of any termination of our
    U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of
    our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under
    our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more
    large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition.


 


    Our government business also is subject to specific procurement
    regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other
    requirements. These requirements, although customary in
    U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and
    compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future,
    thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect
    on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these
    regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties,
    repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or
    debarment from U.S. Government contracting or
    subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for
    debarment are violations of various laws, including those
    related to procurement integrity, export control,
    U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices,
    protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper
    recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a
    U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any
    of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and
    could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for
    future U.S. Government contracts.


 



    We
    enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses
    in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in
    inflation.





    We have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. These contracts
    allow us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk
    of potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost
    burden. If our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose
    money on these contracts. U.S. Government contracts can
    expose us to potentially large losses because the
    U.S. Government can hold us responsible for completing a
    project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of
    its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or
    foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of
    the contract. Because many of these contracts involve new
    technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen
    events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the
    price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost
    overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less
    favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. The United
    States also may experience a significant increase in inflation.
    A significant increase in inflation rates could have a
    significant adverse impact on the profitability of these
    contracts. Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or
    specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less
    favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated
    damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its
    right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have
    provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we
    fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not
    realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are
    dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our
    contracts. Cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our
    financial results. The potential impact of such risk on our
    financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and
    programs shifted toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price
    contracts.




    
    19



Table of Contents






    We
    could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber
    attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant
    disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we
    operate for certain of our customers.





    We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach,
    whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the
    Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to
    e-mails,
    persons inside our organization or persons with access to
    systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption
    of our IT networks and related systems. We face an added risk of
    a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT
    networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate
    and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve
    managing and protecting information relating to national
    security and other sensitive government functions. The risk of a
    security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack
    or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign
    governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number,
    intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions
    from around the world have increased. As a communications and IT
    company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a
    heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats
    to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’
    proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and
    related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that
    we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. These
    types of information and IT networks and related systems are
    critical to the operation of our business and essential to our
    ability to perform
    day-to-day
    operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations
    of certain of our customers. Although we make significant
    efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of
    information and IT networks and related systems, and we have
    implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security
    breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our
    security efforts and measures will be effective or that
    attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be
    successful or damaging. Even the most well protected
    information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially
    vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly
    cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the
    future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are
    constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until
    launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be
    detected and, in fact, may not be detected. In some cases, the
    resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks.
    Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or
    to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative
    measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely
    mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant
    disruption involving these types of information and IT networks
    and related systems could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and
    therefore our operations
    and/or those
    of certain of our customers;








     
        • 

    
    Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss,
    theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential,
    sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our
    customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to
    compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise
    harmful purposes and outcomes;








     
        • 

    
    Compromise national security and other sensitive government
    functions;








     
        • 

    
    Require significant management attention and resources to remedy
    the damages that result;








     
        • 

    
    Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits,
    penalties or termination; or








     
        • 

    
    Damage our reputation among our customers (particularly agencies
    of the U.S. Government and potential customers of Cyber
    Integrated Solutions) and the public generally,





 


    Any or all of which could have a negative impact on our results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    We
    derive a significant portion of our revenue from international
    operations and are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.





    We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United
    States. In fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, revenue
    from products and services exported from the U.S. or
    manufactured or rendered abroad was 22 percent,
    14 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of our total
    revenue. Approximately 33 percent of our international
    business in fiscal 2011 was transacted in local currency. Losses
    resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect
    our results. We expect that international revenue will continue
    to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. Also,
    a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and
    an increasing portion of our business activity is being
    conducted in, less-developed countries. We are subject to risks
    of doing business internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and
    currency revaluations;








     
        • 

    
    The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments
    relating to investments and operations, as well as
    U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies
    abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;







    
    20



Table of Contents









    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in regulatory requirements, including business or
    operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or
    embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions;








     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of
    funding, credit or guarantees;








     
        • 

    
    The complexity and necessity of using international dealers,
    distributors, sales representatives and consultants;








     
        • 

    
    The difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed
    organization and culturally diverse workforces, including
    compliance with local laws and practices;








     
        • 

    
    Difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held
    abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws;








     
        • 

    
    Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as
    well as unforeseen changes in export regulations;








     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for
    onerous contract clauses; and








     
        • 

    
    Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies,
    political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of
    international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation.





 



    Our
    reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the
    improper conduct of our employees, agents or business
    partners.





    We have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures
    designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being
    committed by our employees, agents or business partners that
    would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate,
    including laws governing payments to government officials (such
    as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), and to detect any such
    reckless or criminal acts committed. We cannot ensure, however,
    that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or
    detect all such reckless or criminal acts. If not prevented,
    such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or
    criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties
    and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to
    conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation.


 



    We may
    not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to
    conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent
    proposed sales to certain foreign governments.





    We must first obtain export and other licenses and
    authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before
    we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies
    outside of the United States. For example, the
    U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least
    15-60 days,
    depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to
    authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to
    foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action
    to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we
    will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary
    licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or
    delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability
    to sell products or technologies outside of the United States
    could negatively impact our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    The
    continued effects of the general downturn in the global economy
    and the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and national debt
    could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results
    or financial condition.





    There has been a general downturn in the global economy and the
    economies of the United States and many foreign countries in
    which we do business continue to show weakness. Although
    governments worldwide, including the U.S. Government, have
    initiated sweeping economic plans, we are unable to predict the
    impact, severity and duration of these economic events. The
    continuing effects of the general downturn in the global economy
    and the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and national
    debt could have an adverse impact on our business, operations
    results or financial condition in a number of ways. Possible
    effects of these economic conditions include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The U.S. Government could reduce or delay its spending on,
    reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in
    which we participate;








     
        • 

    
    The U.S. Government may be unable complete its budget
    process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30 and
    thus would be required either to shut down or to be funded
    pursuant to a “continuing resolution” that authorizes
    agencies of the U.S. Government to continue operations but
    does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which
    could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for
    products and services we provide. While this historically has
    not had a material adverse impact on our business, operating
    results or financial condition, if the U.S. Government
    budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation
    under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenues,
    profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse
    effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.







    
    21



Table of Contents









    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash
    flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or
    other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers
    and prospective customers (including U.S. Federal, state
    and local governments);








     
        • 

    
    We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other
    problems associated with financial constraints faced by our
    suppliers and subcontractors; and








     
        • 

    
    We may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with
    future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit
    facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing
    our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or
    financing activities.





 



    Our
    future success will depend on our ability to develop new
    products, services and technologies that achieve market
    acceptance in our current and future markets.





    Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized
    by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry
    standards. Accordingly, our performance depends on a number of
    factors, including our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Identify emerging technological trends in our current and target
    markets;








     
        • 

    
    Develop and maintain competitive products and services;








     
        • 

    
    Enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or
    other features that differentiate our products and services from
    those of our competitors; and








     
        • 

    
    Develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to
    market quickly.





 


    We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future,
    we will need to continue to develop new products, services and
    technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial
    resources. The need to make these expenditures could divert our
    attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be
    sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely
    development of new products, services or technologies. Due to
    the design complexity of some of our products, services and
    technologies, we may experience delays in completing development
    and introducing new products, services or technologies in the
    future. Any delays could result in increased costs of
    development or redirect resources from other projects. In
    addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our
    products, services or technologies will develop as we currently
    anticipate. The failure of our products, services or
    technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly
    reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot
    be sure that our competitors will not develop competing
    products, services or technologies that gain market acceptance
    in advance of our products, services or technologies, or that
    our competitors will not develop new products, services or
    technologies that cause our existing products, services or
    technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, which could
    adversely affect our results of operations. The future direction
    of the domestic and global economies, including its impact on
    customer demand, also will have a significant impact on our
    overall performance.


 



    We
    participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain
    economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth
    in our markets and, as a result, future income and
    expenditures.





    We participate in U.S. and international markets that are
    subject to uncertain economic conditions. As a result, it is
    difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in
    which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting
    and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the
    markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or
    guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures
    even more difficult. As a result, we may make significant
    investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated
    benefits.


 



    We
    cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events,
    but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate,
    our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our
    profitability.





    Ongoing instability and current conflicts in the Middle East and
    Asia and the potential for further conflicts and future
    terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events
    throughout the world have created economic and political
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operations and profitability. These matters cause
    uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance markets
    and may increase significantly the political, economic and
    social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate.
    These matters also have caused the premiums charged for our
    insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases
    or some coverages to be unavailable altogether.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    We
    have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that
    involve significant risks and uncertainties.





    We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic
    acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
    These risks and uncertainties include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions,
    including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or
    fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other
    acquisition risks;








     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and
    operations, including combining product and service offerings,
    and in entering into new markets in which we are not
    experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while
    maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the
    risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other
    problems associated with integration;








     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in consolidating and rationalizing IT infrastructure,
    which may include multiple legacy systems from various
    acquisitions and integrating software code;








     
        • 

    
    Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and
    other benefits expected from acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the
    strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be
    successful in those markets;








     
        • 

    
    Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the
    limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the
    financial resources of any indemnifying parties;








     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired
    businesses; and








     
        • 

    
    Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our
    existing operations.





 



    Disputes
    with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors
    to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our
    components, parts or services, could cause our products or
    services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or
    unsatisfactory manner.





    On many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. We may have
    disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding
    the quality and timeliness of work performed by the
    subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our
    failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders
    under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a
    subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor’s failure
    to comply with applicable law. In addition, there are certain
    parts, components and services for many of our products and
    services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors.
    Some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial
    and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to
    supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that
    we require. Any inability to develop alternative sources of
    supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially
    impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and
    services to our customers. We can give no assurances that we
    will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material
    supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in
    the future. Also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not
    be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials,
    components, subsystems and services they supply, which might
    result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty
    claims and could harm our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe
    upon our intellectual property rights.





    Many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous
    protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which
    often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be
    infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon
    those intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual
    property infringement might also require us to enter into costly
    royalty or license agreements. Moreover, we may not be able to
    obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us,
    or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or
    injunctions against development and sale of certain of our
    products, services and solutions. Our success depends in large
    part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of
    patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how,
    confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to
    establish and protect our intellectual property rights. If we
    fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our
    competitive position could suffer. Our pending patent and
    trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or
    competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents
    or trademark registrations. In addition, our patents may not
    provide us a significant competitive advantage. We may be
    required to spend significant resources to monitor and police
    our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect
    infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before
    we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our
    technology or develop competing technologies.




    
    23



Table of Contents






    The
    outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is
    unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.





    We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and, from
    time to time, are involved in a number of arbitrations. These
    actions may divert financial and management resources that would
    otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can
    be given that the results of these or new matters will be
    favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or
    arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    We
    face certain significant risk exposures and potential
    liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or
    indemnity.





    We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products
    and services we provide. A significant portion of our business
    relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced
    defense, technology and communications systems and products. New
    technologies associated with these systems and products may be
    untested or unproven. Components of certain of the defense
    systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous.
    Failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control
    systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the
    potential to cause loss of life and extensive property damage.
    In most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the
    U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain
    risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate
    to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear
    substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not
    possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational
    risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an
    incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity and our
    insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating
    results and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for
    which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively
    affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby
    making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and
    could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate
    insurance in the future.


 



    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.





    Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a
    number of factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;








     
        • 

    
    Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;








     
        • 

    
    Increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes,
    including write-offs of acquired in-process research and
    development and impairment of goodwill in connection with
    acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in available tax credits;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in share-based compensation expense;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in domestic or international tax laws or the
    interpretation of such tax laws; and








     
        • 

    
    The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities.





 


    Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    adversely impact our results of operations for future periods.


 



    We
    have significant operations in Florida and other locations that
    could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a
    natural disaster or other significant disruption.





    Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our
    Government Communications Systems segment are located in
    Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Our worldwide
    operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to
    natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including
    hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires,
    water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical
    epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts,
    telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and
    manmade disasters or disruptions. In the event of such a natural
    disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or
    interruptions to our operations or the operations of our
    suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers;
    destruction of facilities;
    and/or loss
    of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and
    expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite
    and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated
    could adversely affect our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.





    Our domestic satellite and terrestrial communications solutions
    are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are
    therefore subject to lighter regulation by the Federal
    Communications Commission (the “FCC”) and other
    Federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common
    carrier basis. Our international satellite and





    
    24



Table of Contents





    terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by
    governments of various countries other than the United States
    and by other international authorities. The regulatory regimes
    applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial
    communications solutions operations frequently require that we
    obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our
    operations in accordance with prescribed standards. Compliance
    with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand
    our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in
    which such expansion is required in order to provide
    uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile
    operations as they move to new locations on short notice.
    Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could
    subject us to various penalties or sanctions. The adoption of
    new laws or regulations, changes to the existing domestic or
    international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the
    laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material
    limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially
    harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.


 



    We
    rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our
    managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and
    any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.





    In our managed satellite and terrestrial communications
    solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with
    other commercial entities, such as other satellite
    communications services providers and broadcasting companies,
    and with governmental entities, such as the military. In certain
    markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limited
    and/or
    pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive
    pressure. In such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient
    bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications
    services, either at favorable rates or at all. This inability
    could harm our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Changes
    in future business conditions could cause business investments
    and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in
    substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results
    of operations.





    As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time,
    acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These
    investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence
    procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic
    objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions
    and judgment in determining acquisition price. After
    acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely
    affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not
    recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately 39 percent of our recorded total assets as of
    July 1, 2011. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded
    goodwill amounts annually, as well as when we change reportable
    segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be
    an impairment. The annual impairment test is based on several
    factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected
    reportable segment cash flows or changes in market conditions
    may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. For
    additional information on accounting policies we have in place
    for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under “Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” of this Report and
    Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies and
    Note 22: Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived
    Assets in the Notes.


 



    We
    must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so
    could seriously harm us.





    Our business has a continuing need to attract significant
    numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding
    security clearances, to support our growth and to replace
    individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or
    for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified
    personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time
    in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or
    training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or
    could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts
    if our needs for such employees were unmet.


 


    In addition, we are currently undertaking a search for a
    successor chief executive officer, which is a critical
    management position. The search for and transition to a
    successor chief executive officer may result in disruptions to
    our business and uncertainty among investors, employees and
    others concerning our future direction and performance. It also
    may be more difficult for us to recruit and retain other
    personnel until a successor chief executive officer is
    identified and the transition is completed. Any such disruptions
    and uncertainty, as well as the failure to successfully
    identify, attract
    and/or
    retain a successor chief executive officer or other executives
    and key employees could have an adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B