Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. All
    forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read
    in conjunction with, those risk factors. Forward-looking
    statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions
    of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
    (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
    Act”), and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed
    by law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further
    developments or information obtained after the date of filing of
    this Report or, in the case of any document incorporated by
    reference, the date of that document, and disclaim any
    obligation to do so.


 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS.





 



    HARRIS





    Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an
    international communications and information technology company
    serving government and commercial markets in more than 150
    countries. We are dedicated to developing
    best-in-class
    assured
    communications®

    products, systems and services for global markets, including
    RF communications, government communications and broadcast
    communications.


 


    Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the
    successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal
    executive offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard,
    Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is
    (321) 727-9100.
    Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
    the symbol “HRS.” On August 28, 2009, we employed
    approximately 15,300 people. Unless the context otherwise
    requires, the terms “we,” “our,”
    “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as
    used in this Report refer to Harris Corporation and its
    subsidiaries.


 



    General





    We structure our operations primarily around the products and
    services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report our
    financial results in the following three business segments:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our RF Communications segment, comprised of our
    (i) Tactical Radio Communications and (ii) Public
    Safety and Professional Communications businesses;








     
        • 

    
    Our Government Communications Systems segment, comprised of our
    (i) Defense Programs, (ii) National Intelligence
    Programs, (iii) Civil Programs and (iv) IT Services
    businesses; and








     
        • 

    
    Our Broadcast Communications segment, comprised of our
    (i) Infrastructure and Networking Solutions,
    (ii) Media and Workflow and (iii) Transmission Systems
    businesses.





 


    As previously reported and as discussed further in
    Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report (the
    “Notes”), our segment reporting structure for fiscal
    2009 reflects that, effective upon the commencement of fiscal
    2009, our RF Communications business (part of our Defense
    Communications and Electronics segment for fiscal 2008) is
    reported as its own separate segment, and our Defense Programs
    business (the other part of our Defense Communications and
    Electronics segment for fiscal 2008) is reported as part of
    our Government Communications Systems segment. Our Broadcast
    Communications segment did not change as a result of those
    adjustments to our segment reporting structure. The historical
    results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as
    set forth in this Report reflect the impact of those adjustments
    to our segment reporting structure for all periods presented in
    this Report.



    
    1



Table of Contents




    Additionally, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, in
    connection with the May 27, 2009 spin-off (the
    “Spin-off”) in the form of a taxable pro rata dividend
    to our shareholders of all the shares of Harris Stratex
    Networks, Inc. (“HSTX”) common stock owned by us, we
    eliminated as a reporting segment our former HSTX segment.
    Accordingly, our historical financial results have been restated
    to account for HSTX as discontinued operations for all periods
    presented in this Report, and unless otherwise specified,
    disclosures in this Report relate solely to our continuing
    operations. See Note 3: Discontinued Operations in
    the Notes for additional information regarding discontinued
    operations.


 


    Financial information with respect to all of our other
    activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the
    business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as
    part of the “Unallocated corporate expense” or
    “Non-operating income (loss)” line items in our
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Recent
    Acquisitions





    Acquisition of Crucial Security, Inc.  On
    April 15, 2009, we acquired Crucial Security, Inc.
    (“CSI”), a privately held 110-employee
    Washington, D.C.-area provider of mission-enabling
    engineering solutions that address both offensive and defensive
    information technology (“IT”) security challenges for
    Federal law enforcement and other U.S. Government agencies.
    We operate CSI within our Government Communications Systems
    segment as part of the National Intelligence Programs business.
    The acquisition expands our capabilities, customer footprint and
    current initiatives in the cyber security market.


 


    Acquisition of Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems
    Business.  On May 29, 2009, we acquired
    substantially all of the assets of the Tyco Electronics wireless
    systems business (“Wireless Systems”) (formerly known
    as M/A-COM), an established provider of mission-critical
    wireless communications systems for law enforcement, fire and
    rescue, public service, utility and transportation markets. In
    connection with the acquisition, we assumed liabilities
    primarily related to Wireless Systems. We did not assume the
    State of New York wireless network contract awarded to Wireless
    Systems in December 2004. The purchase price for Wireless
    Systems was $665 million in cash, subject to further
    post-closing adjustments. We operate Wireless Systems, which we
    now call the Public Safety and Professional Communications
    business, within our RF Communications segment. We believe the
    acquisition creates a powerful supplier of
    end-to-end
    wireless network solutions to the growing $9 billion global
    land mobile radio systems market and greatly accelerates our
    entry into that market.


 


    Acquisition of SolaCom Technologies ATC
    Business.  On June 19, 2009, we acquired the
    50-employee Air Traffic Control business unit (“SolaCom
    ATC”) of SolaCom Technologies Inc., a privately held
    company headquartered in Gatineau, Quebec, Canada. SolaCom ATC
    provides voice and data communications systems and solutions for
    air traffic facilities and radio communications between aircraft
    in flight and air traffic controllers. These next-generation
    radio control equipment solutions provide extremely reliable
    voice switching and conferencing capabilities used by more than
    100 customers on six continents. We operate SolaCom ATC within
    our Government Communications Systems segment as part of the
    Civil Programs business. We believe the acquisition provides our
    Civil Programs’ Mission Critical Networks business, a
    leader in air traffic control communications networks and
    telecommunications infrastructure, with an immediate ability to
    address additional segments of the air traffic control
    voice/data systems market and further positions us to support
    the anticipated Next Generation Air Transportation System
    (“NextGen”) program of the Federal Aviation
    Administration (“FAA”).


 



    Financial
    Information About Our Business Segments





    Financial information with respect to our business segments,
    including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets,
    and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is
    contained in Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes
    and is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Description
    of Business by Segment


 



    RF
    Communications





    RF Communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio
    communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for
    military and government organizations and also of secure
    communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility
    and transportation markets. RF Communications is comprised of
    our (i) Tactical Radio Communications and (ii) Public
    Safety and Professional Communications businesses.


 


    Tactical Radio Communications:  We design,
    develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio
    communications products and systems for manpack, handheld,
    soldier-worn, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard
    applications that operate in various radio frequency
    bands — high-frequency (“HF”), very
    high-frequency (“VHF”) and ultra high-frequency
    (“UHF”) — over satellite communications
    (“SATCOM”) and in multiband mode.



    
    2



Table of Contents




    These radio systems are highly flexible, interoperable and
    capable of supporting diverse mission requirements. Our
    Falcon®

    family of tactical radios is built on a software-defined radio
    platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software
    upgrades. Our Falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded
    encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable
    network communications capability without relying on a fixed
    infrastructure. This capability allows warfighters, for example,
    to remain connected with each other, their command structures
    and support organizations, and gives them the ability to
    communicate information and maintain situational awareness of
    both friendly and opposing forces, which are critical to both
    the safety and success of their missions.


 


    Unlike many of our competitors in the U.S. Government
    market, we operate this business on a “commercial”
    customer and market-driven business model, as opposed to a
    government programs-driven business model. This means that we
    anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and
    development resources to develop products sooner than
    government-funded programs, build to our internal forecast, and
    provide
    ready-to-ship,
    commercial,
    off-the-shelf
    (“COTS”) products to customers more quickly than
    customers can typically obtain similar products under
    government-funded programs.


 


    Our Falcon
    III®

    family of radios is the next generation of multiband,
    multi-mission tactical radios, which supports the
    U.S. military’s Joint Tactical Radio System
    (“JTRS”) requirements as well as network-centric
    operations worldwide. Our Falcon III radios address the
    full range of current mission and interoperability requirements
    and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical
    standards and mission requirements of the future. Advances in
    our Falcon III radios include extended frequency range,
    significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous
    generations and programmable encryption. We have shipped more
    than 75,000
    JTRS-approved
    Falcon III radios.


 


    Our Falcon III multiband handheld radio, the AN/PRC-152(C)
    (“152C”), is the world’s most widely deployed
    JTRS-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first
    Falcon III radio to be fielded. It has been widely fielded
    by all branches of the U.S. Department of Defense
    (“DoD”) and many allies worldwide, and is also used by
    U.S. Federal agencies. The 152C offers users a wide range
    of capabilities such as legacy Single Channel Ground and
    Airborne System (“SINCGARS”) interoperability; UHF
    ground-to-ground
    line-of-sight
    communications;
    close-air
    support; tactical SATCOM; and the Association of Public Safety
    Communications Officials — International
    (“APCO”) P25 waveform to provide direct communications
    with first responders. The 152C also serves as the
    handheld-based transceiver of our Falcon III AN/VRC-110, a
    high-performance, multiband vehicular system that offers the
    added feature of easy vehicle dismount — a
    “grab-and-go”
    feature that delivers continuous communications when removed
    from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments.


 


    Our new Falcon III multiband manpack radio, the AN/PRC-117G
    (“117G”), is the only JTRS-approved and National
    Security Agency (“NSA”) Type-1 certified radio
    providing wideband networking capability. It has been deployed
    to all branches of the DoD and is enabling the transition to a
    networked battlefield communications environment. High-bandwidth
    applications include simultaneous voice, data and streaming
    video for situational awareness, reconnaissance information and
    biometrics. The radio delivers Internet Protocol
    (“IP”) data to the tactical Internet at on-air rates
    of up to 5 megabits per second. The 117G currently runs our
    Advanced Networking Wideband Waveform (“ANW2”) and is
    designed for future upgrade to the Soldier Radio Waveform
    (“SRW”). Both waveforms provide advanced networking
    capability to the battlefield. The 117G features an extended
    frequency range from 30 megahertz to 2 gigahertz and is
    significantly lighter and consumes less power than previous
    generations of manpack radios. It is certified by the Joint
    Interoperability Test Command (“JITC”) as compliant
    with Demand Assigned Multiple Access (“DAMA”) military
    standards and is upgradeable to access the Mobile User Objective
    System (“MUOS”), both of which are used for
    transmitting high-bandwidth voice and data over tactical
    military satellites. The 117G includes a Remote Operated Video
    Enhanced Receiver (“ROVER”) interoperable mode that
    provides warfighters on the battlefield with the ability to
    receive live video directly from unmanned aerial vehicles
    (“UAVs”). This capability allows users to receive a
    video feed directly from the UAV without an intermediary or
    having to pass that information from a base station, which
    enables a dismounted warfighter to carry only one radio in
    situations where two radios were previously required.


 


    Our cryptographic solutions encompass NSA-certified products and
    systems that range from single integrated circuits to major
    communications systems, including our
    Sierra®

    and
    Citadel®

    embedded encryption solutions and our SecNet
    11®

    and SecNet
    54tm

    IP communications families of communications security
    (“COMSEC”) terminals.


 


    In the international market, our tactical radios are the
    standard of NATO and Partnership for Peace countries and are
    sold to more than 100 countries through our strong international
    distribution channels consisting of regional sales offices and a
    broad dealer network. International tactical radio demand is
    being driven by continuing tactical communications modernization
    and standardization programs to provide more sophisticated
    communications capabilities to address traditional and emerging
    threats and to provide interoperability. In fiscal 2009, we
    received



    
    3



Table of Contents




    tactical radio orders from,
    and/or made
    deliveries to, a wide range of international customers including
    Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Belgium, Belize, Brunei, Canada,
    the Czech Republic, Djibouti, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia,
    Ethiopia, France, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kenya,
    Kyrgyzstan, Macedonia, Mexico, Mozambique, Niger, Norway,
    Pakistan, the Philippines, Poland, the Republic of Georgia,
    Romania, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Uganda, Ukraine, the United
    Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom.


 


    Additionally, we are increasing our focus on providing
    integrated communications systems for the international market.
    Our integrated systems offerings are largely based on our
    products, but include other companies’ products, as well as
    a wide variety of applications, in order to implement integrated
    command, control, communications, computers, intelligence,
    surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) systems for
    many different types of platforms, including command post and
    transit case systems, vehicular and shelter communications
    systems and specialized airborne applications, which are
    frequently used in border security and surveillance systems. For
    example, we are providing for the United Arab Emirates Ministry
    of Defense a mobile, airborne and fixed-secure command, control
    and communications (“C3”) nationwide system with 40
    ground sites connected by an
    IP-based
    radio communications network, integrating
    Falcon II®

    HF, VHF and multiband radios and Falcon III high capacity
    data radios and tactical broadband global area network
    (“BGAN”) terminals for SATCOM. We are providing the
    Pakistan Frontier Corps with a complete turnkey secure,
    high-speed communications infrastructure system, including
    Falcon II HF and VHF radios, wideband high capacity line of
    sight (“HCLOS”) radios and Falcon
    Watchtm

    unmanned ground sensors, in fixed, mobile and shelterized
    installations. In addition, we are providing to Brunei a
    nationwide complete integrated communications military system
    covering 18 static sites, 4 repeater sites and 288 vehicle
    installations, with Falcon II HF and VHF radios and
    Falcon III secure personal radios.


 


    Public Safety and Professional
    Communications:  We supply assured communications
    systems and equipment for public safety, utility and
    transportation markets, with products ranging from complete
    end-to-end
    wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced IP
    voice and data networks, supporting multiple platforms and
    providing interoperability among disparate systems, to portable
    and mobile single-band and multiband radios.


 


    We acquired Wireless Systems on May 29, 2009, as described
    under “Item 1. Business — Recent
    Acquisitions” of this Report. As a result of that
    acquisition, we conduct a worldwide wireless network systems
    business which designs, builds, distributes, maintains and
    supplies wireless communications systems, including land mobile
    radio and broadband equipment, systems and networks for the
    public safety, utility and transportation markets. We offer our
    Voice, Interoperability, Data and Access (“VIDA”)
    network solution, which is a unique, cost-effective
    IP-based
    network that is flexible, responsive, expandable and easily
    upgradeable, and which supports a full line of communications
    systems, including OpenSky, NetworkFirst,
    P25IP and

    Enhanced Digital Access Communication System
    (“EDACS”), allowing seamless interconnection of
    diverse systems. Our VIDA network solutions currently serve as
    the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide
    and regional communications networks in North America, including
    the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.


 


    In addition to a full range of single-band land mobile radio
    terminals from the Wireless Systems acquisition, we offer our
    multiband portable radio, the
    Unitytm

    XG-100. The Unity XG-100 covers all portable land mobile radio
    frequency bands in a single radio; operates on APCO Digital P25
    conventional and trunked systems; is backwards compatible with
    analog FM systems; and includes advanced capabilities, such as
    an internal Global Positioning System (“GPS”) receiver
    for situational awareness, internal secure
    Bluetooth®

    wireless technology, and background noise suppression features.
    Our Unity multiband radio is designed to allow Federal agencies
    to talk with each other as well as their counterparts at the
    state and local level, thus providing a significant improvement
    over most current radio systems for U.S. public safety,
    which are not interoperable, requiring emergency personnel to
    carry multiple radios or route transmissions through ad-hoc
    network bridges, often configured at the time of an emergency,
    and creating instances where agencies responding to a common
    incident cannot talk to each other.


 


    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the RF Communications segment increased 17 percent to
    $1,761 million in fiscal 2009 compared with
    $1,507 million in fiscal 2008, and was $1,179 million
    in fiscal 2007. Segment operating income increased
    9 percent to $571.5 million in fiscal 2009 compared
    with $525.5 million in fiscal 2008, and was
    $403.2 million in fiscal 2007. The RF Communications
    segment contributed 35 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2009 compared with 32 percent in fiscal 2008 and
    31 percent in fiscal 2007. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was 39 percent in fiscal 2009 compared with
    27 percent in fiscal 2008 and 28 percent in fiscal
    2007. U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through
    prime contractors, accounted for approximately 79 percent
    of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal 2009 compared
    with approximately 82 percent in fiscal 2008 and
    76 percent in fiscal 2007. For a general description of our
    U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a
    discussion of revenue generated from cost-



    
    4



Table of Contents




    reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts” of this Report.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $922 million at July 3, 2009 compared with
    $982 million at June 27, 2008 and $797 million at
    June 29, 2007. We expect to fill approximately
    67 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2010, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
    information regarding this segment’s funded backlog is
    provided under “Item 1. Business — Funded
    and Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating
    to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of
    this Report.


 



    Government
    Communications Systems





    Government Communications Systems conducts advanced research
    studies and produces, integrates and supports highly reliable,
    net-centric communications and information technology that solve
    the mission-critical challenges of our defense, intelligence and
    civilian U.S. Government customers, and is comprised of our
    (i) Defense Programs, (ii) National Intelligence
    Programs, (iii) Civil Programs and (iv) IT Services
    businesses.


 


    Defense Programs:  We develop, supply and
    integrate communications and information processing products,
    systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace,
    terrestrial and maritime applications supporting DoD missions,
    and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies
    that support the military’s ongoing transformation to
    network-centric communications. Our technologies are providing
    advanced battlespace networking capabilities to assure timely
    and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic,
    operational and tactical boundaries in support of the DoD’s
    full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics
    missions. Our major technology capabilities include SATCOM
    terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard
    applications; flat-panel and phased-array antennas; aviation
    electronics for military jets and helicopters, including radios,
    digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and
    microelectronics; high-speed data links and data networks for
    wireless communications and smart weapons; and advanced ground
    control systems. For example, our mobile ad hoc networking
    capability allows the military to take its communications
    infrastructure with it, creating mobile, self-forming and
    self-healing networks across the battlefield. Our Highband
    Networking
    Radiotm

    (“HNR”), released in fiscal 2007, provides secure,
    wireless, high-bandwidth (30 megabits per second),
    on-the-move
    communications among users of widely dispersed local area
    networks (“LANs”) by establishing
    line-of-sight
    connectivity using a Harris-developed waveform that
    automatically selects the best communications path available,
    allowing seamless communication of voice, video and data to all
    levels of command. We announced in fiscal 2009 that our HNR
    system was deployed to the U.S. Army 101st Airborne
    Division (Air Assault) 2nd Brigade Combat Team in Iraq,
    which was the first combat deployment of the HNR system.


 


    Examples of ongoing programs for us include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”), F-22 Raptor
    and
    F/A-18E/F
    Super Hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide
    high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber
    optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image
    processing, digital map software and other electronic
    components, including Multifunction Advanced Data Link
    (“MADL”) communications subsystems primarily intended
    for stealth platform
    air-to-air
    communications and which allow F-35s to communicate in a stealth
    fashion with other network nodes without revealing their
    positions;








     
        • 

    
    The Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (“WIN-T”)
    program for the U.S. Army, for which we are designing and
    testing the wireless transmission system architecture, applying
    our proven enabling technologies for wireless
    on-the-move
    communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure
    wireless network solutions such as our HNR system;








     
        • 

    
    The Multiple Launch Rocket System (“MLRS”) Improved
    Fire Control System (“IFCS”) program for the
    U.S. Army, for which we provide the launcher interface
    unit, power switching unit and weapon interface unit;






    
    5



Table of Contents








    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Multiband Shipboard Satellite Communications Terminal
    (“MSSCT”) program for the U.S. Navy, for which we
    are providing wideband SATCOM terminal systems. During fiscal
    2009, we were awarded a contract modification, potentially worth
    $37 million, to supply MSSCTs for the Arleigh Burke class
    of guided missile destroyers; and








     
        • 

    
    The Commercial Broadband Satellite Program (“CBSP”)
    for the U.S. Navy, for which we supply broadband multiband
    SATCOM terminals that support essential mission requirements and
    provide enhanced
    morale-related
    communications services such as high-speed Internet access and
    video communications.





 


    During fiscal 2009, we were awarded a
    ten-year
    contract, potentially worth $600 million, for the
    U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals
    (“MET”) program, under which the next-generation large
    satellite earth stations we develop will provide the worldwide
    backbone for high-priority military communications and missile
    defense systems and support IP and Dedicated Circuit
    Connectivity within the Global Information Grid
    (“GIG”), providing critical reach-back capability for
    the warfighter.


 


    National Intelligence Programs:  A significant
    portion of this business involves classified programs. While
    classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report,
    the operating results relating to classified programs are
    included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe
    that the business risks associated with those programs do not
    differ materially from the business risks of other
    U.S. Government programs.


 


    We are a major developer, supplier and integrator of
    communications and information processing products, systems and
    networks for a diverse base of U.S. Intelligence Community
    programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the
    Intelligence Community into a more collaborative enterprise.
    Serving primarily national intelligence and security agency
    customers, including NSA and the National
    Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”), we provide
    intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”)
    solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection
    accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time
    mission data and intelligence reference data for display and
    analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers.
    Our ISR systems help to integrate information across the analyst
    workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been
    collected and processed. We strive to produce innovative ISR
    solutions that provide our customers with information dominance
    for battle-space superiority.


 


    For example, our image processing capabilities extend from
    algorithm development through delivery of operations systems,
    and we are providing advanced image exploitation and
    dissemination solutions for ISR applications by advancing image
    processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital
    product generation techniques. Those technologies range from new
    techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated
    techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization.
    Also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide
    complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the
    terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple foe
    and friendly forces and their support by utilizing data,
    pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or from
    real-time input which can be transmitted around the world in
    fractions of a second. In addition, we have industry-leading
    capabilities in the architecture, design and development of
    highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays
    and on-board processors, which are used to enable
    next-generation satellite systems to provide the
    U.S. military and intelligence communities with strategic
    and tactical advantages. We are also a leader in the design and
    development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial
    space telecommunications applications. Further, our capabilities
    include developing and supplying
    state-of-the-art
    wireless voice and data products and solutions spanning
    vehicular, man-portable, airborne, remote/unattended and
    system-level
    applications for both passive and active missions, including
    surveillance and tracking equipment, for the
    U.S. Intelligence Community and law enforcement community.


 


    During fiscal 2009, we were awarded a number of new contracts
    and follow-on contracts under classified programs. In fiscal
    2009, we also expanded our capabilities, customer footprint and
    current initiatives in the cyber security market through our
    April 15, 2009 acquisition of CSI, as described under
    “Item 1. Business — Recent
    Acquisitions” of this Report. As an industry-leader in
    cyber security, we have been using
    state-of-the-art
    technology assessment techniques and architecture engineering
    for decades to define and operate secure networks supporting
    nationally critical programs. We currently support three of the
    nation’s largest secure networks: (i) the FAA
    Telecommunications Infrastructure (“FTI”) program
    network, (ii) the global communications and information
    systems (“Patriot” program) network for the National
    Reconnaissance Office (“NRO”), and (iii) the
    Navy/Marine Corps Intranet (“NMCI”) program network.
    Our technology countermeasures and monitoring capabilities
    proactively safeguard vital information assets supporting the
    missions of U.S. military, intelligence, transportation and
    commerce customers. In addition, in the second quarter of fiscal
    2009, we signed an agreement with McAfee, Inc., a large
    dedicated enterprise security technology company, to resell its
    products and technical services to the U.S. Government.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Civil Programs:  We provide highly reliable,
    mission-critical communications and information processing
    systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the
    U.S. civilian Federal market, including the FAA, Census
    Bureau, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
    (“NOAA”) and Department of Health and Human Services
    (“HHS”). We use our ability to implement and manage
    large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced
    communications and information processing technologies in order
    to improve productivity and information processing and to
    achieve cost savings for our customers. Our networks and
    information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed
    enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting,
    processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing,
    storing and retrieving data.


 


    For example, we are the prime contractor under a
    15-year
    contract, awarded in July 2002 that is potentially worth
    $3.5 billion, for the FTI program to integrate, modernize,
    operate and maintain the communications infrastructure for the
    U.S. air traffic control system. FTI is a modern, secure
    and efficient network providing voice, data and video
    communications deployed at more than 4,500 sites across the
    U.S., to enhance network efficiency, reliability and security
    and improve service while reducing operating costs. We designed
    and deployed the FTI network and it is fully operational. The
    FTI network consists of the Operations Network, the Mission
    Support Network and the Satellite Network. The supporting
    infrastructure includes the Network Operations Control Centers
    (“NOCCs”) and Security Operations Control Centers
    (“SOCCs”). The FTI program expanded in the third
    quarter of fiscal 2009 to include the FTI Microwave program,
    which will provide replacement of the FAA’s legacy low
    density radio control link (“LDRCL”) network. Our
    acquisition of SolaCom ATC on June 19, 2009 as described
    under “Item 1. Business — Recent
    Acquisitions” of this Report provides us with an immediate
    ability to address additional segments of the air traffic
    control voice/data systems market and further positions us to
    support the FAA’s anticipated NextGen program.


 


    The U.S. Census Bureau is also a significant customer.
    Under the Master Address File/Topologically Integrated
    Geographic Encoding and Referencing Accuracy Improvement Project
    (“MTAIP”), which was completed in fiscal 2008, we were
    the prime contractor modernizing two key census databases
    containing 175 million addresses for all
    U.S. residences and businesses and a database linking
    U.S. streets, rivers, railroads and other geographic
    features to GPS coordinates. The Field Data Collection
    Automation (“FDCA”) program was awarded to us during
    fiscal 2006 in support of the 2010 census. We are the prime
    contractor integrating multiple automated systems, and we also
    developed a wireless handheld device with integrated GPS and
    secure communications capabilities designed to enable census
    takers to input data in real time and securely transmit the
    information back to the Census Bureau. The FDCA program is
    nearing completion, and revenue from the program will decline
    significantly in fiscal 2010.


 


    In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we were awarded a ten-year
    contract, potentially worth $736 million, to provide a
    complete,
    end-to-end
    solution for NOAA’s Geostationary Operational Environmental
    Satellite — Series R Ground Segment (“GOES-R
    GS”) program, under which we will design, develop, deploy
    and operate the ground segment system, which will receive and
    process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data
    to more than 10,000 direct users. We will also provide the
    command and control of operational satellites under the GOES-R
    GS program.


 


    In a new growth initiative for us — Healthcare
    Solutions — we are focusing on delivering
    standards-based interoperable healthcare solutions for
    government and commercial clients with security, privacy and
    patients in control of how their information is shared. For
    example, we are developing and integrating, under a contract
    from HHS, an open-source National Health Information Network
    (“NHIN”) CONNECT Gateway solution designed to enable
    seamless health information sharing among multiple Federal
    agencies and regional healthcare providers. We are developing a
    multi-hospital military health network with image-sharing
    capabilities under the DoD Military Health System global
    Healthcare Artifact and Image Management Solution
    (“HAIMS”) program. We also are providing Health First,
    Inc. (“Health First”), a Florida-based healthcare
    provider, with network management and IT services for its
    enterprise-wide operations under a significant ten-year contract.


 


    IT Services:  We use our engineering and
    integration expertise to rapidly design, build and support
    mission-critical
    communications and IT solutions, as both a prime contractor and
    a subcontractor, for U.S. Government defense, civilian and
    national intelligence customers and for commercial customers in
    cyberspace, healthcare and new media markets. With approximately
    3,000 highly specialized, highly trained and appropriately
    certified employees at approximately 300 locations worldwide, we
    support large-scale, mission-critical networks, which often
    require the highest level of availability and security, with
    technical expertise and strong customer commitment through the
    full technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment,
    operations and ongoing support. Our operational footprint in the
    U.S. offers a physical presence in all 50 states and
    provides support to more than 9,000 customer sites in the 200
    largest cities. Our capabilities and services comprise three
    main solution areas, namely IT transformation, managed services
    and information assurance.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    Our IT transformation solutions use a holistic approach built on
    proven methodologies in order to design, implement and manage
    enterprise-wide architectures that align IT goals with
    customers’ business and mission goals. Our standards-based,
    repeatable IT transformation solutions unify, streamline and
    modernize unwieldy and disparate networks and systems across
    distributed environments, resulting in highly simplified,
    flexible, secure and manageable network infrastructures.


 


    Our managed services solutions include outsourced staffing and
    infrastructure, sustained by comprehensive operations and
    maintenance offerings, and are based on a flexible, scalable and
    repeatable service level agreement (“SLA”)
    performance-driven business model, frequently in a fixed-price
    environment. Our managed services solutions use an Information
    Technology Infrastructure Library (“ITIL”)-based
    best-practices approach for optimizing and supporting IT and
    communications environments, improving efficiencies, lowering
    operational costs and allowing customers to focus on mission
    performance.


 


    Our information assurance solutions include architecture
    analysis; attack warning and defense; identity management;
    security assessments; certification and accreditation process
    support; forensics analysis and vulnerability remediation;
    system anomaly monitoring, detection and management; and
    physical security countermeasures. Our information assurance
    solutions safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and
    availability of enterprise infrastructures, systems and critical
    business data over the full IT lifecycle, from infrastructure
    design to integration and testing to operations and maintenance.
    Those solutions meet widely used certification and accreditation
    standards, including the Federal Information Security Management
    Act (“FISMA”), the National Security Agency/Center
    Security Services Information System Certification and
    Accreditation Process (“NISCAP”) and the Department of
    Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
    Process (“DIACAP”).


 


    As examples, for NRO, which designs, builds and operates U.S.
    reconnaissance satellites, we provide operations, maintenance
    and support services for its Patriot program network in space
    and on the ground under a ten-year contract awarded in August
    2004, potentially worth $1 billion, in support of
    NRO’s global analyst community. We are providing the
    U.S. Navy with comprehensive,
    end-to-end
    support for data, video and voice communications for over
    700,000 users as a Tier One subcontractor under the NMCI
    program awarded in October 2000 and potentially worth
    $1.1 billion. The NMCI program is the largest IT
    outsourcing managed services contract ever awarded by the
    U.S. Government. Under a
    five-year
    contract awarded by the U.S. Department of State, Bureau of
    Consular Affairs (the “State 6” program) in August
    2008, potentially worth $217 million, we provide IT
    integration of installation, training, help desk, passport and
    configuration management services in support of more than
    230 U.S. embassies and consulates around the world. We
    also provide system maintenance and engineering for the Defense
    Information Systems Agency’s (“DISA”) Crisis
    Management System, and we provide ongoing mission operations and
    support services under the FTI program.


 


    Additionally, under the Network and Space Operations and
    Maintenance (“NSOM”) program contract awarded to us in
    January 2008 for a six-month base period with six one-year
    options, potentially worth $410 million in aggregate, we
    provide operations and maintenance support at locations around
    the world for the communications functions for the U.S. Air
    Force 50th Space Wing’s Satellite Control Network
    (“AFSCN”), a global, continuously operational network
    of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications
    links that support launch and command and control of various
    space programs managed by the DoD and other national security
    space organizations.


 


    We also have key positions on a number of Indefinite
    Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts. We
    are a prime contractor under the U.S. Air Force Network
    Centric Solutions (“NETCENTS”) contract, which
    provides IT installation, integration and operations and
    maintenance services for networks and systems and offers IT
    products for networks. Our NETCENTS task orders include the
    Maxwell Air Force Base and the Overseas Navy Enterprise Network
    (“ONE-NET”).
    We are also a prime contractor under the U.S. Army ITES-2S
    contract, which provides IT installation, integration,
    infrastructure and operations and maintenance services for
    networks and systems. Our ITES-2S task orders include the
    Fort Bliss Department of Information Management
    (“DOIM”), the Army G-1 support and the Army.mil
    website and content support. We are one of 59 prime contractor
    awardees under the ALLIANT Government-Wide Acquisition Contract
    (“GWAC”) for the General Services Administration
    (“GSA”), which is an IT procurement contract broadly
    accessible to all U.S. Government agencies.


 


    In a new growth initiative for us — Commercial Managed
    Services — we are providing
    end-to-end
    solutions and services across our vertical commercial markets,
    including cyberspace, healthcare and “new media”
    broadcast markets. For example, we are providing Health First
    with managed services for back office infrastructure and
    networks. We also are collaborating with the Broadcast
    Communications segment to design and manage systems that manage,
    monitor and play out video content for a branded TV channel for
    the McDonald’s fast food chain and systems that combine IP
    television (“IPTV”) and digital signage and IT
    infrastructure to create an advanced media workflow for an
    in-arena network for the Orlando Magic’s new basketball
    arena, as described in more detail below under
    “Item 1. Business — Description of Business
    by Segment — Broadcast Communications” of this
    Report.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the Government Communications Systems segment increased
    9 percent to $2,710 million in fiscal 2009 compared
    with $2,478 million in fiscal 2008, and was
    $1,997 million in fiscal 2007. Segment operating income
    increased 34 percent to $302.8 million in fiscal 2009
    compared with $226.0 million in fiscal 2008, and was
    $225.6 million in fiscal 2007. This segment contributed
    54 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2009 compared
    with 54 percent in fiscal 2008 and 53 percent in
    fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2009, approximately 28 percent of
    the revenue for this segment was under contracts with prime
    contractors and approximately 72 percent of revenue was
    under direct contracts with customers, compared with
    approximately 26 percent of revenue under contracts with
    prime contractors and approximately 74 percent of revenue
    under direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2008 and
    approximately 29 percent of revenue under contracts with
    prime contractors and approximately 71 percent of revenue
    under direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2007. Some of
    this segment’s more significant programs in fiscal 2009
    included the FDCA program, the FTI program, the Patriot program,
    the NETCENTS program, the NMCI program and various classified
    programs. The largest program by revenue for fiscal 2009
    represented approximately 13 percent of this segment’s
    revenue in fiscal 2009, compared with approximately
    9 percent in fiscal 2008 and approximately 12 percent
    in fiscal 2007. The 10 largest programs by revenue for fiscal
    2009 represented approximately 46 percent of this
    segment’s revenue in fiscal 2009, approximately
    45 percent in fiscal 2008 and approximately 38 percent
    in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2009, this segment had a diverse
    portfolio of over 300 programs. Historically, that diversity has
    provided a stable backlog and reduced potential risks that come
    from reductions in funding or changes in customer priorities,
    and we expect that program diversity will continue to provide
    similar benefits in the future, although we can give no
    assurance. In fiscal 2009, U.S. Government customers,
    including the DoD and intelligence and civilian agencies, as
    well as foreign military sales through the U.S. Government,
    whether directly or through prime contractors, accounted for
    approximately 96 percent of this segment’s total
    revenue compared with approximately 96 percent in fiscal
    2008 and 95 percent in fiscal 2007. For a general
    description of our U.S. Government contracts and
    subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from
    cost-reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $398 million at July 3, 2009 compared with
    $371 million at June 27, 2008 and $372 million at
    June 29, 2007. Unfunded backlog for this segment was
    $4,750 million at July 3, 2009 compared with
    $4,225 million at June 27, 2008 and
    $4,265 million at June 29, 2007. We expect to fill
    approximately 95 percent of this funded backlog during
    fiscal 2010, but we can give no assurance of such fulfillment.
    Additional information regarding funded and unfunded backlog for
    this segment is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog” of this
    Report. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this
    segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government
    contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1.
    Business — Principal Customers; Government
    Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and
    “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.


 



    Broadcast
    Communications





    Broadcast Communications supplies technology and service
    solutions to consumers of rich media, including TV stations
    and networks and cable, satellite, telecommunications and other
    media content providers. Recently, our efforts have expanded to
    include government customers, sports and entertainment
    organizations, restaurants, casinos and theme parks, that use
    broadcast and digital signage technologies to drive messaging
    and advertising to their customers. Those solutions are designed
    to receive content in any format and then manage, move and
    reformat that content for any delivery network to any viewing
    device. Broadcast Communications’ hardware and software
    products, systems and services offer a comprehensive,
    single-source approach to delivering interoperable workflow
    capabilities and solutions spanning the entire broadcast value
    chain, including content creation, management, distribution and
    delivery. The Harris
    ONEtm

    solution for interoperable workflows that depend on IT-centric
    systems, integrated infrastructure and enterprise software
    brings together highly integrated and cost-effective products
    suited for emerging media business models and for customers
    upgrading media operations to digital and high definition
    (“HD”) services from analog and standard definition
    (“SD”) services. This segment serves the global
    digital and analog media markets, providing infrastructure and
    networking products and solutions, media and workflow solutions,
    and television and radio transmission equipment and systems.


 


    The current trend and future of broadcast media involves
    digitizing content and transporting it simultaneously over many
    different networks to many types of devices. The need to create,
    manage and ultimately deliver digital media content is driving
    an infrastructure upgrade cycle for the media industry. However,
    the global recession, particularly the weak economic conditions
    in North America, has prompted many broadcast and media
    customers to postpone capital spending projects, and we expect
    the North America market to remain weak for at least the next
    several quarters. We also expect the impact of lower revenue on
    this segment’s operating performance to be mitigated by its
    ongoing cost-reduction and margin improvement actions. We are
    supporting customers as they



    
    9



Table of Contents




    expand services for HD television (“HDTV”), IPTV,
    video-on-demand
    and interactive TV. The introduction of several new products has
    established Broadcast Communications as a provider of
    end-to-end
    solutions for the worldwide transition to digital and HD
    technologies and infrastructure, including three gigabit per
    second (“3 Gb/s”) solutions for the 1080p HD format.


 


    Infrastructure and Networking Solutions:  Our
    infrastructure and networking solutions offerings include
    SD and HD products and systems that enable media companies
    to streamline workflow from production through transmission. We
    provide a comprehensive, next-generation portfolio of signal
    processors, routers, master control and branding systems,
    network monitoring and control software, and test and
    measurement instruments that support content throughout the
    workflow application chain. We also provide advanced multi-image
    display processors and
    state-of-the-art
    broadcast graphics that change the way broadcasters view and
    manage content and provide broadcasters with options for
    presenting their brands. We also provide highly differentiated
    network access and multiplex platforms through our
    NetVXtm

    solution, which offers customized integrated management and
    distribution applications for any content across any connection
    to support television, government video and public safety
    applications. Our infrastructure and networking products also
    include our
    X85tm

    up/down/cross converter and frame synchronizer multiple
    application video and audio processing platform;
    Opto+tm

    fiber optic signal processing products offering 3 Gb/s
    electrical-to-optical
    and
    optical-to-electrical
    conversion capabilities;
    Platinumtm

    large router for mixed video and audio signal routing;
    IconMastertm

    digital master control system;
    Videotek®

    line of precision test and measurement instruments; compact,
    scalable Predator
    IItm

    and larger-format multi-image display processors, or
    “multiviewers;” and
    Inscriber®

    line of graphics and titling products.


 


    Media and Workflow:  Our media and workflow
    solutions offerings enable customers to manage their digital
    media workflow through a portfolio of software solutions for
    advertising, media management (traffic, billing and program
    scheduling), digital signage, broadband, digital asset
    management, and play-out automation, and to transition into an
    IT workflow by using servers to manage content flow, storage and
    other key facets of an increasingly file-based broadcast
    environment. We offer modular, standards-based solutions
    generally with open application programming interfaces
    (“APIs”) for ease of integration and future
    scalability. Our media and workflow solutions products include
    the Harris media software suite, our OSi
    Traffictm

    software and our
    Inveniotm

    Digital Asset Management solution. The Harris media software
    suite is a unified system of interoperable broadcast and media
    applications based on open standards, with a network-, content-
    and service-agnostic approach, which supports customers’
    core services and business operations, makes data exchange and
    workflow more efficient and facilitates adding services that can
    lead to new revenue streams. Our products also include our NEXIO
    AMPtm

    HD/SD video
    server advanced media platform, part of our
    NEXIOtm

    family of scalable, interoperable video servers;
    Velocitytm

    family of editing controllers that employ open standards to
    accelerate
    time-to-air
    and reduce the costs associated with content acquisition,
    production, distribution and media management;
    Punctuatetm

    out-of-home advertising and digital signage traffic, scheduling
    and ad sales advanced software solution; and Infocaster line of
    digital signage systems.


 


    Transmission Systems:  We develop, manufacture
    and supply digital and analog television and radio transmission
    systems for delivery of rich media over wireless broadcast
    terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including mobile TV
    applications. We can provide single products or
    end-to-end
    systems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of
    transmitters. Our television and radio transmission systems
    solutions are scalable to meet the needs of broadcasters of all
    sizes. We are a leader in television’s transition from
    analog to digital technology and in technology for the
    U.S. digital standard known as “ATSC” and the
    European digital standard “DVB-T.” We continue to play
    a leading role in assisting local television broadcasters and
    network operators to implement transmission solutions, including
    solutions based on ATSC and DVB-T and other digital standards
    and all major approaches to broadcast mobile TV. In fiscal 2007,
    we introduced with LG Electronics Inc. the jointly developed
    Mobile Handheld in-band mobile digital TV system
    (“M/H”), a new technology capable of providing digital
    TV (“DTV”) signals and extending
    over-the-air
    broadcast TV signals beyond customary TV viewing at home to
    mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as mobile
    phones or laptop computers). Our products also include our
    Maxivatm

    line of UHF multimedia transmitters, comprised of our Maxiva ULX
    Series of liquid-cooled transmitters for high-power UHF
    multimedia broadcasters and our Maxiva UAX Series of air-cooled,
    solid-state transmitters for low-power UHF transmission.


 


    We are also a leader in the transition from analog to digital
    radio. Our product offerings address the U.S. digital
    standard called “IBOC” (In-Band/On-Channel), which is
    referred to in the market as “HD
    Radio®,”

    as well as international digital standards including
    “DAB” and “DRM.” Our radio transmission
    products include our
    Intraplex®

    line of audio transport products, including
    studio-to-transmitter
    links, and our
    FLEXSTARtm

    family, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so
    broadcasters can offer supplemental audio and data capability
    along with the main program stream, offering listeners 5.1
    surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports reports,
    store-and-play
    capabilities and real-time navigation.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    This segment has several new growth initiatives underway. We
    offer digital transmitters, encoding equipment and the ability
    to launch new channels with an overall solution consisting of ad
    sales, automation, servers, master control and branding for
    mobile TV applications. We are collaborating with the Government
    Communications Systems segment’s IT Services business to
    design and manage (i) systems featuring digital signage
    solutions with IT infrastructure to manage, monitor and play out
    digital broadcast-quality video content for the McDonald’s
    fast food chain’s branded TV channel under a field trial
    including 20 restaurants around the U.S. and
    (ii) systems that combine IPTV and digital signage
    solutions that merge broadcast technology with IT infrastructure
    in order to create an innovative file-based advanced media
    workflow for an in-arena network for the Orlando Magic’s
    new basketball arena. We also offer, for U.S. Government
    customers, our Full-Motion Video Asset Management Engine
    (“FAMEtm”)

    capability. FAME is a COTS-based solution developed based on our
    digital asset management technologies, input from intelligence
    analysts and our Government Communications Systems
    segment’s image processing, system integration and security
    capabilities.


 


    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the Broadcast Communications segment decreased
    9 percent to $584 million in fiscal 2009 compared with
    $643 million in fiscal 2008, and was $600 million in
    fiscal 2007. The segment had an operating loss of
    $238.0 million in fiscal 2009, which included a
    $255.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill
    and other long-lived assets, compared with operating income of
    $33.8 million in fiscal 2008 and $11.9 million in
    fiscal 2007. The Broadcast Communications segment contributed
    11 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2009 compared
    with 14 percent in fiscal 2008 and 16 percent in
    fiscal 2007. The percentage of this segment’s revenue that
    was derived outside of the United States was approximately
    47 percent in fiscal 2009 compared with 47 percent in
    fiscal 2008 and 46 percent in fiscal 2007. No single
    customer accounted for more than 3 percent of fiscal 2009
    revenue for the Broadcast Communications segment.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $247 million at July 3, 2009 compared with
    $305 million at June 27, 2008 and $298 million at
    June 29, 2007. We expect to fill approximately
    50 percent of this backlog during fiscal 2010, but we can
    give no assurance of such fulfillment. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, see “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Report.


 



    International
    Business





    Revenue from products exported from the United States (including
    foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was
    $1,016.6 million (20 percent of our total revenue) in
    fiscal 2009 compared with $759.7 million (17 percent
    of our total revenue) in fiscal 2008 and $629.6 million
    (17 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2007. Our
    international sales include both direct exports from the United
    States and sales from foreign subsidiaries. Essentially all of
    the international sales are derived from the RF Communications
    and Broadcast Communications segments. Direct export sales are
    primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas sales from
    foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local
    currency of the subsidiary. Exports from the United States,
    principally to Europe, Africa, Canada, Latin America, the Middle
    East and Asia, totaled $766.0 million (approximately
    75 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2009
    compared with $530.5 million (approximately 70 percent
    of our international revenue) in fiscal 2008 and
    $404.0 million (approximately 64 percent of our
    international revenue) in fiscal 2007. The percentage of revenue
    represented by foreign operations was 5 percent in fiscal
    2009 compared with 5 percent in fiscal 2008 and
    6 percent in fiscal 2007. The percentage of long-lived
    assets represented by foreign operations was 12 percent as
    of July 3, 2009 compared with 19 percent as of
    June 27, 2008 and 19 percent as of June 29, 2007.
    Financial information regarding our domestic and international
    operations is contained in Note 25: Business
    Segments in the Notes and is incorporated herein by
    reference.


 


    Our principal international manufacturing facilities are located
    in Canada and the United Kingdom. The majority of our
    international marketing activities are conducted through
    subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, Central and South
    America, and Asia. We have also established international
    marketing organizations and several regional sales offices.
    Reference is made to Exhibit 21 “Subsidiaries of the
    Registrant” of this Report for further information
    regarding our international subsidiaries.


 


    We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers,
    distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and
    sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically
    and internationally. These independent representatives may buy
    for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or
    governmental customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the
    ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or
    established by the



    
    11



Table of Contents




    independent representative and may be above or below our list
    prices. Our dealers and distributors generally receive a
    discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in
    setting the final sales prices paid by the customer. Revenue
    from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2009 represented
    11 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    55 percent of our international revenue, compared with
    revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2008 representing
    7 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    44 percent of our international revenue, and revenue from
    indirect sales channels in fiscal 2007 representing
    8 percent of our total revenue and 40 percent of our
    international revenue.


 


    Fiscal 2009 international revenue came from a large number of
    countries, and no such single country accounted for more than
    3 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are
    paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either
    on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments,
    progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or
    upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred.
    Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to
    provide performance guarantees. In order to stay competitive in
    international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and
    vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain
    customers.


 


    The particular economic, social and political conditions for
    business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those
    encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that
    the overall business risk for the international business as a
    whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic
    operations as a whole. A description of the types of risks to
    which we are subject in international business is contained in
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.
    Nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are
    mitigated by the diversification of the international business
    and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance
    payments.


 



    Competition





    We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to
    technological advances. Although successful product and systems
    development is not necessarily dependent on substantial
    financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our
    businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels
    of expenditures for research and development. In each of our
    businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our
    management believes are compatible with our resources, overall
    technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive
    factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability;
    technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability
    to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability
    to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party
    sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness.
    Within the IT services market, there is intense competition
    among many companies. The ability to compete in the IT services
    market depends on a number of factors, including the capability
    to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the
    diverse spectrum of the IT services market.


 


    In the RF Communications segment, principal competitors include
    European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company N.V.
    (“EADS”), General Dynamics, ITT Industries, Motorola,
    Raytheon, Rohde & Schwarz, Selex, Tadiran and Thales.


 


    In the Government Communications Systems segment, principal
    competitors include Boeing, CACI, General Dynamics, GTSI, L-3
    Communications, Lockheed Martin, ManTech, NCI, Northrop Grumman,
    Raytheon, Rockwell Collins, SRA, Stanley and SAIC. Consolidation
    among U.S. defense and aerospace companies has resulted in
    a reduction in the number of principal prime contractors. As a
    result of this consolidation, we frequently “partner”
    or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with
    companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other
    programs.


 


    In the Broadcast Communications segment, principal competitors
    include Avid, Broadcast Electronics, Chyron, Evertz, Harmonic,
    Miranda, Nautel, NEC, Omneon, Omnibus, Pilat Media,
    Rohde & Schwarz, Sony Broadcast, Tektronix, Thomson
    and Wide Orbit, as well as other smaller companies and divisions
    of large companies. We believe that our broad product offering
    and total content delivery solutions are key competitive
    strengths for this segment.


 



    Principal
    Customers; Government Contracts





    Sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through
    prime contractors, were 79 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2009 compared with 79 percent in fiscal 2008 and
    75 percent in fiscal 2007. No other customer accounted for
    more than 1 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2009.
    Additional information regarding customers for each of our
    segments is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Description of Business by Segment” of
    this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly
    derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors
    to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales of the
    Government Communications Systems segment are made directly or
    indirectly to the U.S. Government under contracts or
    subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses
    providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for
    termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or
    for default based upon performance.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    These U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include
    both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. Our
    cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of
    allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. Our
    cost-reimbursement contracts fall into three basic types:
    (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the
    payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of
    performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which
    provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified
    limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual
    targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and
    delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts,
    which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the
    discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the
    contractor against pre-established performance criteria. Under
    cost-reimbursement contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for
    allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on
    contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially
    or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or
    regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition costs,
    lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation
    defense costs.


 


    Our fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts
    or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under firm fixed-price
    contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a
    fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and
    carry the burden of cost overruns. Under fixed-price incentive
    contracts, we share with the U.S. Government both savings
    accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as
    well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated
    ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry
    the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling
    price. Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may
    also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified
    performance objectives are met. Under firm fixed-price and
    fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either
    milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract
    price or monthly progress payments from the U.S. Government
    in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the
    contract. The remaining amounts, including profits or incentive
    fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items
    and deliverables under the contract. Fixed-price contracts
    generally have higher profit margins than cost-reimbursement
    contracts. Production contracts are mainly fixed-price
    contracts, and development contracts are generally
    cost-reimbursement contracts.


 


    In fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, approximately
    36 percent, 35 percent and 33 percent,
    respectively, of the total combined revenue of our RF
    Communications and Government Communications Systems segments
    was from fixed-price contracts. GWAC and IDIQ contracts, which
    can include task orders for each contract type, require us to
    compete both for the initial contract and then for individual
    task or delivery orders under such contracts.


 


    As stated above, U.S. Government contracts are terminable
    for the convenience of the U.S. Government, as well as for
    default based on performance. Companies supplying goods and
    services to the U.S. Government are dependent on
    Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of
    funds and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government
    policies resulting from various military, political and
    international developments. Long-term government contracts and
    related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for
    subsequent performance periods become unavailable. Under
    contracts terminable for the convenience of the
    U.S. Government, a contractor is entitled to receive
    payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the
    proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done.
    Contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that
    the U.S. Government pays only for the work it has accepted
    and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost
    of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages.
    In many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the
    complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and
    difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on
    developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Under
    many U.S. Government contracts, we are required to maintain
    facility and personnel security clearances complying with DoD
    and other Federal agency requirements. For further discussion of
    risks relating to U.S. Government contracts, see
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Report.


 



    Funded
    and Unfunded Backlog





    Our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was
    approximately $6,317 million at July 3, 2009 compared
    with approximately $5,883 million at June 27, 2008 and
    $5,732 million at June 29, 2007. The funded portion of
    this backlog was approximately $1,567 million at
    July 3, 2009 compared with approximately
    $1,658 million at June 27, 2008 and
    $1,467 million at June 29, 2007. The determination of
    backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with
    respect to customer requirements contracts and development and
    production contracts of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature.


 


    We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products
    and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the
    case of U.S. Government agencies, appropriated. Unfunded
    backlog is primarily unfilled firm and expected follow-on orders
    that have not yet met our established funding criteria. Our
    established funding criteria require both authorization by the
    customer as well as our management’s determination that
    there is little or no risk



    
    13



Table of Contents




    of the authorized funding being rescinded. We do not include
    potential task or delivery orders under IDIQ contracts in our
    backlog. In fiscal 2010, we expect to fill approximately
    71 percent of our total funded backlog as of July 3,
    2009. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or
    that our funded backlog will become revenue in any particular
    period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and
    program cancellations, which are beyond our control. Additional
    information with regard to the backlog of each of our segments
    is provided under “Item 1. Business —
    Description of Business by Segment” of this Report.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering





    Research, development and engineering expenditures totaled
    approximately $1,003 million in fiscal 2009,
    $980 million in fiscal 2008 and $884 million in fiscal
    2007. Company-sponsored research and product development costs,
    which included research and development for commercial products
    and independent research and development related to government
    products and services, as well as concept formulation studies
    and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately
    $244 million in fiscal 2009, $248 million in fiscal
    2008 and $195 million in fiscal 2007. A portion of our
    independent research and development costs are allocated among
    contracts and programs in process under U.S. Government
    contractual arrangements. Company-sponsored research and product
    development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense
    when incurred. The portion of total research, development and
    engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was
    funded by the U.S. Government and is included in our
    revenue. Customer-sponsored research and development was
    $759 million in fiscal 2009, $732 million in fiscal
    2008 and $689 million in fiscal 2007. Company-sponsored
    research is directed to the development of new products and to
    building technological capability in selected communications and
    electronic systems markets. U.S. Government-funded research
    helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. All of
    our segments maintain their own engineering and new product
    development departments, with scientific assistance provided by
    advanced-technology departments. As of July 3, 2009, we
    employed approximately 6,500 engineers and scientists and are
    continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of
    our business segments available for all other business segments.


 



    Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property





    We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the
    aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large and
    valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how,
    confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other
    intellectual property. We also license intellectual property to
    and from third parties. As of July 3, 2009, we held
    approximately 1,000 U.S. patents and 550 foreign patents,
    and had approximately 575 U.S. patent applications
    pending and 1,450 foreign patent applications pending.
    Unpatented research, development and engineering skills also
    make an important contribution to our business. While our
    intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to
    our business and the operations of our business segments, we do
    not consider our business or any business segment to be
    materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other
    intellectual property right, or any group of related patents,
    licenses or other intellectual property rights. We are engaged
    in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a
    number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which
    generate royalty income. Although existing license agreements
    have generated income in past years and may do so in the future,
    there can be no assurances we will enter into additional
    income-producing license agreements. From time to time we engage
    in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual
    property. Any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks,
    copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged,
    invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive
    advantages. For further discussion of risks relating to
    intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” of this Report. With regard to patents relating to
    our Government Communications Systems segment, the
    U.S. Government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive,
    royalty-free license, pursuant to which the U.S. Government
    may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by
    such patents. Pursuant to similar arrangements, the
    U.S. Government may consent to our use of inventions
    covered by patents owned by other persons. Numerous trademarks
    used on or in connection with our products are also considered
    to be a valuable asset.


 



    Environmental
    and Other Regulations





    Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic
    and international laws and regulations designed to protect the
    environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions.
    The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common
    within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve.
    We believe that we have complied with these requirements and
    that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    Based upon currently available information, we do not expect
    expenditures to protect the environment and to comply with
    current environmental laws and regulations over the next several
    years to have a material impact on our competitive position or
    financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such
    expenditures will not exceed current expectations. If future
    laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than



    
    14



Table of Contents




    presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than
    our present estimates of those expenditures. We have installed
    waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to
    satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization
    and prevention goals. We did not spend material amounts on
    environmental capital projects in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 or
    fiscal 2007. A portion of our environmental expenditures relates
    to discontinued operations for which we have retained certain
    environmental liabilities. We currently expect that amounts to
    be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be
    material in fiscal 2010. These amounts may increase in future
    years. Additional information regarding environmental and
    regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Report and in Note 1:
    Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes.


 


    Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental
    regulation in a number of jurisdictions. Equipment produced by
    our Broadcast Communications segment, in particular, is subject
    to domestic and international requirements requiring
    end-of-life
    management
    and/or
    restricting materials in products delivered to customers,
    including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on
    Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and
    Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of certain
    Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
    (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted
    similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not
    applicable to most equipment produced by our Government
    Communications Systems and RF Communications segments. We
    believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations,
    where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold
    into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and
    regulations with respect to our future products.


 


    Broadcast and wireless communications (whether TV, radio or
    telecommunications) are also subject to governmental regulation.
    Equipment produced by our Broadcast Communications and RF
    Communications segments, in particular, is subject to domestic
    and international requirements to avoid interference among users
    of radio and television frequencies and to permit
    interconnection of telecommunications equipment. We believe that
    we have complied with such rules and regulations with respect to
    our existing products, and we intend to comply with such rules
    and regulations with respect to our future products.
    Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could
    impact our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Raw
    Materials and Supplies





    Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well
    as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use
    numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as
    electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and
    plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. We are
    dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number
    of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers
    and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials
    restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications
    and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent upon
    one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature
    of a particular item or because of local content preference
    requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project.
    While we have been affected by financial and performance issues
    of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been
    materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw
    materials or products. On occasion, we have experienced
    component shortages from vendors as a result of the RoHS
    environmental regulations in the European Union or similar
    regulations in other jurisdictions. These regulations may cause
    a spike in demand for certain electronic components (such as
    lead-free components), resulting in industry-wide supply chain
    shortages. To date, these component shortages have not had a
    material adverse effect on our business. For further discussion
    of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.


 



    Seasonality





    We do not consider any material portion of our business to be
    seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our
    revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of
    contract awards and the timing and availability of U.S.
    Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries
    and customer acceptance.


 



    Employees





    We employed approximately 15,400 employees at the end of
    fiscal 2009 compared with approximately 14,700 employees at
    the end of fiscal 2008. Approximately 92 percent of our
    employees as of the end of fiscal 2009 were located in the
    United States. A significant number of employees in our
    Government Communications Systems segment possess a security
    clearance. We also utilize a number of independent contractors.
    None of our employees in the United States is represented by a
    labor union. In certain international subsidiaries, our
    employees are represented by workers’ councils or statutory
    labor unions. In general, we believe that our relations with our
    employees are good.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Website
    Access to Harris Reports; Available Information





    General.  We maintain an Internet website at
    http://www.harris.com.
    Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available
    free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable
    after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished
    to the SEC. We also will provide the reports in electronic or
    paper form free of charge upon request. We also make available
    free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders
    and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted
    thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or
    other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC.
    All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are
    available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data
    gathering and retrieval (“EDGAR”) system available
    through the SEC’s website at
    http://www.sec.gov.


 


    Additional information relating to our businesses, including our
    operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” of this Report.


 


    Corporate Governance Principles and Committee
    Charters.  We previously adopted Corporate
    Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate
    Governance section of our website at
    www.harris.com/harris/cg/. In addition, the charters of
    each of the committees of our Board, namely, the Audit
    Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility
    Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and
    Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also
    available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A
    copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon
    written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation,
    1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919.


 


    Certifications.  We have filed with the SEC the
    certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In
    addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief
    Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange
    (“NYSE”) in November 2008 in accordance with the
    NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification
    that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the
    NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    We have described many of the trends and other factors that
    could impact our business and future results in
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this
    Report. In addition, our business, operating results, cash flows
    and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially
    adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties,
    including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of
    which could cause our actual results to vary materially from
    recent results or our anticipated future results.


 



    We
    depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of
    our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in
    U.S. Government funding priorities could have adverse
    consequences on our future business.





    We are highly dependent on sales to U.S. Government
    customers. The percentage of our net revenue that was derived
    from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD
    and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign
    military sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, was approximately 79 percent in
    fiscal 2009, 79 percent in fiscal 2008 and 75 percent
    in fiscal 2007. Therefore, any significant disruption or
    deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. Government
    would significantly reduce our revenue. Our U.S. Government
    programs must compete with programs managed by other government
    contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of
    funding. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to
    expand their business relationships with the
    U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the
    future, and the U.S. Government may choose to use other
    contractors. We expect that a majority of the business that we
    seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through
    competitive bidding. The U.S. Government has increasingly
    relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a
    competitive bidding process, including IDIQ, GWAC, GSA Schedule
    and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater
    competition and increased pricing pressure. We operate in highly
    competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive
    or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing
    capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to
    continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain
    task orders under multi-award contracts. Further, the
    competitive bidding process involves substantial costs, the
    significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and
    proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, and the
    risk that we may fail to accurately estimate the resources and
    costs required to fulfill any contract awarded to us. Following
    any contract award, we may experience significant expense or
    delay, contract modification or contract rescission as a result
    of our competitors protesting or challenging contracts awarded
    to us in competitive bidding. We also compete with the
    U.S. Government’s own capabilities and federal
    non-profit contract research centers. Budget decisions made by
    the U.S. Government are



    
    16



Table of Contents




    outside of our control and have long-term consequences for our
    business. A shift in U.S. Government spending priorities or
    an increase in non-procurement spending at the expense of our
    programs, or a reduction in total U.S. Government spending,
    could have material adverse consequences on our future business.


 



    We
    depend significantly on our U.S. Government contracts, which
    often are only partially funded, subject to immediate
    termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination
    or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an
    adverse impact on our business.





    Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be
    implemented by the award of many different individual contracts
    and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs
    is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year
    contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with
    major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a
    fiscal year basis. Procurement funds are typically made
    available for obligation over the course of three years.
    Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding
    initially, and additional funds are obligated only as Congress
    authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding
    for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of
    anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which
    could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the
    termination of a program or the failure to commit additional
    funds to a program that already has been started could result in
    lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business.


 


    Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. Such
    audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any
    costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract
    will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must
    be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs
    we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know
    the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be
    required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon
    completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit
    findings could also result in termination of a contract,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspension or prohibition from doing business with the
    U.S. Government.


 


    In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally contain
    provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without
    prior notice at the U.S. Government’s convenience upon
    the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time
    of termination. We can give no assurance that one or more of our
    U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under
    these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we
    would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or
    backlog lost as a result of any termination of our
    U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of
    our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under
    our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more
    large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition.


 


    Our government business also is subject to specific procurement
    regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other
    requirements. These requirements, although customary in
    U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and
    compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future,
    thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect
    on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these
    regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or
    debarment from U.S. Government contracting or
    subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for
    debarment are violations of various laws, including those
    related to procurement integrity, export control,
    U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices,
    protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper
    recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a
    U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any
    of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and
    could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for
    future U.S. Government contracts.


 



    We
    enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses
    in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in
    inflation.





    We have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. In fiscal 2009
    and fiscal 2008, approximately 36 percent and
    35 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of
    our RF Communications and Government Communications Systems
    segments was from fixed-price contracts. These contracts allow
    us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of
    potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost
    burden. If our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose
    money on these contracts. U.S. Government contracts can
    expose us to potentially large losses because the
    U.S. Government can hold us responsible for completing a
    project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of
    its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or
    foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of
    the contract. Because many of these contracts involve new
    technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen
    events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the
    price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost
    overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less
    favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. The United
    States also may experience a significant increase in inflation.
    A significant increase in inflation rates could have a
    significant



    
    17



Table of Contents




    adverse impact on the profitability of these contracts.
    Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or
    specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less
    favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated
    damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its
    right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have
    provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we
    fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not
    realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are
    dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our
    contracts. Cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our
    financial results. Furthermore, the potential impact of this
    risk on our financial results would increase if the mix of our
    contracts and programs shifted toward a greater percentage of
    firm fixed-price contracts.


 



    We
    derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international
    operations and are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.





    We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United
    States. In fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, revenue
    from products exported from the U.S. or manufactured abroad
    was 20 percent, 17 percent and 17 percent,
    respectively, of our total revenue. Approximately
    25 percent of our international business in fiscal 2009 was
    transacted in local currency environments. Losses resulting from
    currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. We
    expect that international revenue will continue to account for a
    significant portion of our total revenue. Also, a significant
    portion of our international revenue is in less-developed
    countries. We are subject to risks of doing business
    internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and
    currency revaluations;








     
        • 

    
    The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments
    relating to investments and operations, as well as
    U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies
    abroad;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of
    tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade
    restrictions;








     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of
    funding, credit or guarantees;








     
        • 

    
    The complexity and necessity of using international dealers,
    distributors, sales representatives and consultants;








     
        • 

    
    The difficulty of managing an organization doing business in
    many countries;








     
        • 

    
    Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as
    well as unforeseen changes in export regulations;








     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for
    onerous contract clauses; and








     
        • 

    
    Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies,
    political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of
    international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation.





 



    We may
    not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to
    conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent
    proposed sales to certain foreign governments.





    We must first obtain export and other licenses and
    authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before
    we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies
    outside of the United States. For example, the
    U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least
    15-60 days,
    depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to
    authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to
    foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action
    to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we
    will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary
    licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or
    delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability
    to sell products or technologies outside of the United States
    could negatively impact our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Our
    future success will depend on our ability to develop new
    products and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our
    current and future markets.





    Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized
    by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry
    standards. Accordingly, our performance depends on a number of
    factors, including our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Identify emerging technological trends in our current and target
    markets;








     
        • 

    
    Develop and maintain competitive products;








     
        • 

    
    Enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or
    other features that differentiate our products from those of our
    competitors; and








     
        • 

    
    Develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to
    market quickly.





 


    We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future,
    we will need to continue to develop new products and
    technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial
    resources. The need to make these expenditures



    
    18



Table of Contents




    could divert our attention and resources from other projects,
    and we cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will
    lead to the timely development of new products or technologies.
    Due to the design complexity of some of our products and
    technologies, we may experience delays in completing development
    and introducing new products or technologies in the future. Any
    delays could result in increased costs of development or
    redirect resources from other projects. In addition, we cannot
    provide assurances that the markets for our products or
    technologies will develop as we currently anticipate. The
    failure of our products or technologies to gain market
    acceptance could significantly reduce our revenue and harm our
    business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors
    will not develop competing products or technologies that gain
    market acceptance in advance of our products or technologies, or
    that our competitors will not develop new products or
    technologies that cause our existing products or technologies to
    become non-competitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect
    our results of operations. The future direction of the domestic
    and global economies also will have a significant impact on our
    overall performance.


 



    We
    participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain
    economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth
    in our markets and, as a result, future income and
    expenditures.





    We participate in U.S. and international markets that are
    subject to uncertain economic conditions. As a result, it is
    difficult to estimate the level of growth in some of the markets
    in which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting
    and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the
    markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future
    income and expenditures even more difficult. As a result, we may
    make significant investments and expenditures but never realize
    the anticipated benefits.


 



    We
    cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events,
    but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate,
    our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our
    profitability.





    Ongoing instability and current conflicts in the Middle East and
    the potential for further conflicts and future terrorist
    activities and other recent geo-political events have created
    economic and political uncertainties that could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability.
    These matters cause uncertainty in the world’s financial
    and insurance markets and may increase significantly the
    political, economic and social instability in the geographic
    areas in which we operate. These matters also have caused the
    premiums charged for our insurance coverages to increase and may
    cause further increases or some coverages to be unavailable
    altogether.


 



    We
    have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that
    involve significant risks and uncertainties.





    We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic
    acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
    These risks and uncertainties include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions,
    including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or
    fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other
    acquisition risks;








     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and
    operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the
    risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other
    problems associated with integration;








     
        • 

    
    Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and
    other benefits expected from acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the
    strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be
    successful in those markets;








     
        • 

    
    Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the
    limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the
    financial resources of any indemnifying parties;








     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of key employees of the acquired
    businesses; and








     
        • 

    
    Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our
    existing operations.





 



    Disputes
    with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors
    to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our
    components or parts, could cause our products to be produced in
    an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.





    On many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. We may have
    disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding
    the quality and timeliness of work performed by the
    subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our
    failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders
    under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a
    subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor’s failure
    to comply with applicable law. In addition, there are certain
    parts or components for many of our products which we source
    from other manufacturers or vendors. Some of our suppliers, from
    time to time, experience financial and operational difficulties,
    which may impact their ability to supply the materials,
    components and subsystems that we require. Any inability to
    develop alternative sources of supply on a cost-effective and
    timely basis could materially impair our ability to manufacture
    and deliver products to our customers. We can give no assurances
    that we will be free from disputes with our subcontractors,
    material supply problems or component or subsystems problems in
    the future. Also, our



    
    19



Table of Contents




    subcontractors and other suppliers may not be able to maintain
    the quality of the materials, components and subsystems they
    supply, which might result in greater product returns and
    warranty claims and could harm our business, financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe
    upon our intellectual property rights.





    Many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous
    protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which
    often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be
    infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon
    those intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual
    property infringement might also require us to enter into costly
    royalty or license agreements. Moreover, we may not be able to
    obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us,
    or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or
    injunctions against development and sale of certain of our
    products. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary
    technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights,
    trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions
    and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our
    intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully protect
    and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer.
    Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may
    not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or
    scope of our patents or trademark registrations. In addition,
    our patents may not provide us a significant competitive
    advantage. We may be required to spend significant resources to
    monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not
    be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may
    be harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design
    around our technology or develop competing technologies.


 



    The
    outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is
    unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.





    We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are
    involved in a number of arbitrations. These actions may divert
    financial and management resources that would otherwise be used
    to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the
    results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An
    adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to customer credit risk.





    We sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer
    financing. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a
    portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as
    well as working capital. We also may assist customers in
    obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse
    or non-recourse basis. While we generally have been able to
    place a portion of our customer financings with third-party
    lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a
    portion of these financings is provided directly by us. There
    can be higher risks associated with some of these financings,
    particularly when provided to
    start-up
    operations such as local network providers, to customers in
    developing countries or to customers in specific
    financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. If
    customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be
    incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. Our
    losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to
    place or insure against these risks with third parties. These
    risks may increase when the availability of credit decreases.


 



    We
    face certain significant risk exposures and potential
    liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or
    indemnity.





    We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products
    and services we provide. A significant portion of our business
    relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced
    defense and technology systems and products. New technologies
    associated with these systems and products may be untested or
    unproven. Components of certain of the defense systems and
    products we develop are inherently dangerous. Failures of
    satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems,
    homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential
    to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. In most
    circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the
    U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain
    risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate
    to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear
    substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not
    possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational
    risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an
    incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity and our
    insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating
    results and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for
    which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively
    affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby
    making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and
    could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate
    insurance in the future.



    
    20



Table of Contents





    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.





    Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a
    number of factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;








     
        • 

    
    Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;








     
        • 

    
    Increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes,
    including write-offs of acquired in-process research and
    development and impairment of goodwill in connection with
    acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in available tax credits;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in share-based compensation expense;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in domestic or international tax laws or the
    interpretation of such tax laws; and








     
        • 

    
    The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities.





 


    Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    adversely impact our results of operations for future periods.


 



    The
    effects of the recession in the United States and general
    downturn in the global economy could have an adverse impact on
    our business, operating results or financial
    condition.





    The United States economy is in recession and there has been a
    general downturn in the global economy. Although governments
    worldwide, including the U.S. Government, have initiated
    sweeping economic plans, we are unable to predict the impact,
    severity and duration of these economic events, which could have
    an adverse impact on our business, operating results or
    financial condition in a number of ways. Possible effects of
    these economic events include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The U.S. Government could reprioritize its spending away
    from the government contracts in which we participate.














    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash
    flows as a result of reduced orders, payment delays or other
    factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and
    prospective customers.








     
        • 

    
    We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other
    problems associated with financial constraints faced by our
    suppliers and subcontractors.








     
        • 

    
    We may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with
    future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit
    facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing
    our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or
    financing activities.





 



    We
    have significant operations in Florida and other locations that
    could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a
    natural disaster or other significant disruption.





    Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our
    Government Communications Systems segment are located in
    Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Our worldwide
    operations could be subject to natural disasters or other
    significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons,
    tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other
    extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of
    terrorism, power shortages and blackouts, telecommunications
    failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters
    or disruptions. In the event of such a natural disaster or other
    disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to
    our operations or the operations of our suppliers,
    subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers;
    destruction of facilities;
    and/or loss
    of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and
    expenses and materially adversely affect our business, revenue
    and financial condition.


 



    Changes
    in future business conditions could cause business investments
    and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in
    substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results
    of operations.





    As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time,
    acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These
    investments are made upon careful target analysis and due
    diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or
    strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain
    assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After
    acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely
    affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not
    recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately 34 percent of our recorded total assets as of
    July 3, 2009. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded
    goodwill amounts annually, or when evidence of potential
    impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on
    several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in
    expected reporting segment cash flows or changes in market
    conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded
    goodwill. For additional information on accounting policies we
    have in place for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under
    “Critical Accounting Policies and



    
    21



Table of Contents




    Estimates” in “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” of this Report and Note 1: Significant
    Accounting Policies and Note 22: Impairment of
    Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets in the Notes.


 



    In
    order to be successful, we must attract and retain key
    employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm
    us.





    Our business has a continuing need to attract significant
    numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding
    security clearances, to support our growth and to replace
    individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or
    for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified
    personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time
    in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or
    training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or
    could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts
    if our needs for such employees were unmet.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B