Item 1A. Risk Factors” below. Forward-looking
    statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions
    of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
    and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended, and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed by
    law, to update forward-looking statements to reflect further
    developments or information obtained after the date of filing of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the
    date of that document, and disclaim any obligation to do so.







 



    PART I








 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS.





 



    HARRIS





    Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an
    international communications and information technology company
    serving government and commercial markets in more than 150
    countries. We are focused on developing
    best-in-class
    assured
    communicationstm
    products, systems and services for global markets, including
    government communications, RF communications, broadcast
    communications and wireless transmission network solutions.


 


    Harris was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the successor to
    three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal executive
    offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne,
    Florida 32919, and our telephone number is
    (321) 727-9100.
    Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
    the symbol “HRS.” On August 17, 2007, we employed
    approximately 16,000 people. Unless the context otherwise
    requires, the terms “we,” “our,”
    “us,” “Company,” and “Harris” as
    used in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    refer to Harris Corporation and its subsidiaries.


 



    General





    We structure our operations primarily around the markets we
    serve and for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2007, operated
    in the following four business segments: (1) Government
    Communications Systems, (2) RF Communications,
    (3) Broadcast Communications and (4) Harris Stratex
    Networks, Inc. (“Harris Stratex Networks”) (formerly
    Microwave Communications). As described in greater detail below
    under “Item 1. Business — Recent Acquisitions and
    Business Combinations,” in the third quarter of fiscal
    2007, we combined our former Microwave Communications Division
    with Stratex Networks, Inc. (“Stratex”), a
    publicly-traded provider of high-speed wireless transmission
    systems, to form a new company named Harris Stratex Networks,
    Inc. We own approximately 57 percent of Harris Stratex
    Networks’ outstanding stock and the minority stockholders
    own approximately 43 percent of Harris Stratex
    Networks’ outstanding stock. Following that combination,
    our business segment formerly referred to as Microwave
    Communications is now referred to as Harris Stratex Networks.
    The results of the Harris Stratex Networks segment reflect the
    results of the combined business for periods following the
    combination. Unless otherwise noted, disclosures in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    relate only to our continuing operations. Financial information
    with respect to all of our other activities, including corporate
    costs not allocated to the operating segments or discontinued
    operations, is reported as part of Headquarters Expense or
    Non-Operating Income (Loss).


 


    Each of our business segments, which we also refer to as
    “divisions,” has been organized on the basis of
    specific communications markets. Each business segment has its
    own marketing, engineering, manufacturing and product service
    and maintenance organization. We produce most of the products we
    sell.



    
    1



Table of Contents




    On May 21, 2007, we announced that effective for fiscal
    2008 (which began June 30, 2007), our segment reporting
    would be adjusted to reflect our new organizational structure.
    For fiscal 2008, our Department of Defense Programs area, part
    of our Government Communications Systems segment for fiscal
    2007, will be combined with our RF Communications business and
    reported as our Defense Communications and Electronics segment.
    As a result, our segment reporting for fiscal 2008 will consist
    of the following four business segments: (1) Government
    Communications Systems, (2) Defense Communications and
    Electronics, (3) Broadcast Communications, and
    (4) Harris Stratex Networks. Our Broadcast Communications
    and Harris Stratex Networks segments will not change as a result
    of the adjustments to our organizational structure. These
    adjustments to our segment reporting take effect in fiscal 2008
    and therefore do not affect the historical results, discussion
    or presentation of our business segments as set forth in this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    We will begin to report our financial results consistent with
    this new segment reporting structure beginning with the first
    quarter of fiscal 2008.


 


    Our total revenue in fiscal 2007 was approximately
    $4.2 billion compared to approximately $3.5 billion in
    fiscal 2006. Total revenue in the United States increased
    approximately 20 percent from fiscal 2006 while
    international revenue, amounting to approximately
    23 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007, increased
    approximately 29 percent from fiscal 2006. Our net income
    for fiscal 2007 was $480.4 million compared to
    $237.9 million in fiscal 2006.


 



    Recent
    Acquisitions and Business Combinations





    Combination of Our Former Microwave Communications
    Division With Stratex Networks, Inc.  On
    January 26, 2007, we completed the combination of our
    former Microwave Communications Division with Stratex, a
    publicly-traded provider of high-speed wireless transmission
    systems, to form a new company named Harris Stratex Networks,
    Inc. The combination creates a global communications solutions
    company offering end-to-end wireless transmission solutions for
    mobile and fixed-wireless service providers and private
    networks. As part of the combination transaction, Harris Stratex
    Networks’ wholly-owned subsidiary, Stratex Merger Corp.,
    merged with and into Stratex, with Stratex as the surviving
    corporation. Pursuant to that merger, each share of Stratex
    common stock was converted into one-fourth of a share of Harris
    Stratex Networks Class A common stock. As a result,
    24,782,153 shares of Harris Stratex Networks Class A
    common stock were issued to the former holders of Stratex common
    stock, and Stratex became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Harris
    Stratex Networks. As part of the transaction, Stratex was
    renamed “Harris Stratex Networks Operating
    Corporation.” Also as part of the combination transaction,
    concurrently with the merger of Stratex Merger Corp. and
    Stratex, we contributed to Harris Stratex Networks the assets of
    our Microwave Communications Division, including
    $32.1 million in cash, and in exchange Harris Stratex
    Networks assumed substantially all of the liabilities related to
    our Microwave Communications Division and issued
    32,913,377 shares of Harris Stratex Networks Class B
    common stock to us. We own approximately 57 percent of
    Harris Stratex Networks’ outstanding stock and the minority
    stockholders own approximately 43 percent of Harris Stratex
    Networks’ outstanding stock. Harris Stratex Networks is a
    publicly-traded company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under
    the symbol “HSTX.” The Stratex combination was
    accounted for as a purchase business combination with Harris as
    the purchaser for accounting purposes, and the purchase price
    was $493.0 million. The combination also resulted in a gain
    to us of approximately $163.4 million ($143.1 million
    after-tax), which relates to the deemed sale for accounting
    purposes of 43 percent of the assets and liabilities of our
    Microwave Communications Division to the minority stockholders
    of Harris Stratex Networks. The combined business is our Harris
    Stratex Networks segment.


 


    Acquisition of Multimax Incorporated.  On
    June 15, 2007, we acquired Multimax Incorporated
    (“Multimax”), a provider of information technology and
    communications services and solutions supporting the Department
    of Defense (“DoD”), federal civilian agencies, and
    state and local governments. The purchase price for Multimax was
    $402 million, subject to possible post-closing upward or
    downward adjustment. We operate the Multimax business within our
    Government Communications Systems segment as part of the
    Information Technology Services Programs area. The acquisition
    has significantly expanded our information technology services
    business, providing greater scale, a broader customer base and
    new growth opportunities through key positions on several
    Government-Wide Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”).


 



    Subsequent
    Event — Conversion of Convertible Debentures





    On July 12, 2007, we notified The Bank of New York, as
    trustee, that we would redeem all of our outstanding
    3.5% Convertible Debentures due 2022 in accordance with the
    terms of the Indenture dated as of August 26, 2002 between
    Harris and the trustee. The debentures would have been redeemed
    for cash on August 20, 2007, at a redemption price of
    100 percent of the principal amount of the debentures, plus
    accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the
    redemption date. However, prior to the date set for redemption,
    all of the debentures were converted by the holders into shares
    of our common stock at a conversion rate of 44.2404 shares
    of common stock



    
    2



Table of Contents




    for each $1,000 principal amount of debentures, with the
    exception of debentures in the principal amount of $3,000. This
    resulted in the issuance by us of 6,594,146 shares of
    common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2008 in respect
    of the debentures converted. On August 20, 2007, we
    redeemed the remaining debentures in the principal amount of
    $3,000. Accordingly, no debentures remain outstanding as of
    August 20, 2007.


 



    Financial
    Information About Our Business Segments





    Financial information with respect to our business segments,
    including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets, is
    contained in Note 23: Business Segments in the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements (the “Notes”) and
    is incorporated herein by reference. Financial information with
    respect to our operations outside the United States is also
    contained in Note 23: Business Segments in the Notes
    and is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Description
    of Business by Segment for the Fiscal Year Ended June 29,
    2007


 



    Government
    Communications Systems





    Government Communications Systems conducts advanced research
    studies; designs, develops and supports state-of-the-art
    communications and information networks and equipment; plays a
    key role in developing intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance solutions; designs and supports information
    systems for image and other data collection, processing,
    interpretation, storage and retrieval; and offers engineering,
    operations and support services. In fiscal 2007, this segment
    served a diversified customer base within the
    U.S. Government, including the DoD, Federal Aviation
    Administration (“FAA”), National Reconnaissance Office
    (“NRO”), National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
    (“NGA”), Census Bureau, Department of State, National
    Security Agency (“NSA”), National Oceanic and
    Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”), Defense
    Information Systems Agency (“DISA”), Department of
    Homeland Security (“DHS”) and other Federal and state
    government agencies. Government Communications Systems also
    provides services, systems and products for other aerospace and
    defense companies, including Lockheed Martin Corporation, The
    Boeing Company, Northrop Grumman Corporation and Space
    Systems/Loral. Government Communications Systems also provides
    technology support for our commercial businesses. In fiscal
    2007, the Government Communications Systems segment served four
    strategic program areas:


 


    Department of Defense Programs:  Government
    Communications Systems is a major supplier of spaceborne,
    airborne and terrestrial communications and information
    processing systems. Government Communications Systems provides
    military satellite communications, high-speed data links and
    data networks, avionics, mobile ad hoc networked communications,
    large deployable satellite antenna systems, and flat-panel,
    phased-array and single-mission antennas. Government
    Communications Systems is a supplier of protected and wideband
    satellite communications terminals for the DoD, supplying the
    U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps. Government
    Communications Systems is providing high-speed networking and
    satellite communications, including processors, encryptors and
    terminals, to assist the DoD’s ongoing transformation of
    military communications. The DoD’s Global Information Grid
    will provide forces with access to information when and where
    they need it via secure, interoperable and mobile communications
    networks. A key element of this information grid is the
    U.S. Army’s Warfighter Information Network —
    Tactical (“WIN-T”), for which Government
    Communications Systems is providing secure, high-speed, wireless
    local area networking and high-capacity mobile ad hoc networking
    capabilities for WIN-T’s wireless transmission system.
    Government Communications Systems is developing next-generation
    communication electronics in support of the DoD’s
    Transformational Communications Satellite program. Government
    Communications Systems is developing network-centric
    communications system architectures and technologies that will
    link sensors, platforms, weapons and soldiers. It is also
    developing open-architecture, directional, mobile ad hoc
    networking capabilities.


 


    During fiscal 2007, Government Communications Systems was
    awarded significant contracts, including: a three-year,
    $66 million contract by the U.S. Navy for
    pre-production and test of the Ku-band Common Data Link
    (“CDL”) Hawklink high-speed digital data link system
    for the MH-60R Light Airborne Multi-Purpose System
    (“LAMPS”) helicopter; a four-year, $33.5 million
    follow-on contract from ViaSat, Inc. for additional hardware
    (including enhanced voice card, power supply assemblies,
    processor modules and the terminal chassis) for integration into
    the Multifunctional Information Distribution System
    (“MIDS”) Low Volume Terminals (“LVT”) that
    provide U.S. military forces with secure, jam-resistant,
    digital tactical communications, and for comprehensive
    environmental testing of the completed terminal assemblies,
    which follow-on award brings the overall value of the contract
    to us to $140 million; a
    12-month
    contract by the U.S. Navy to provide a Multiband Shipboard
    Satellite Communications Terminal (“MSSCT”) for the
    Lockheed Martin Littoral Combat Ship,which is the second MSSCT
    award to Harris for the Littoral Combat Ship program (Harris is
    providing satellite communications terminal systems for both
    Lockheed Martin and General Dynamics, which are competing for
    the ultimate production award); a nine-month, $12.5 million
    contract by Boeing Integrated Defense Systems to provide the
    Distributed Targeting



    
    3



Table of Contents




    Processor (“DTP”) and the companion Mass Storage Unit
    (“MSU”) for the U.S. Navy’s
    F/A-18E/F
    Super Hornet aircraft, which avionics improve network-centric
    operations capability and shorten the time from target sensing
    to shooting and enhance precision targeting by applying advanced
    geo-referencing capabilities.


 


    Also during fiscal 2007, Government Communications Systems
    released for purchase, together with BAE Systems, their
    co-developed Highband Networking Radio (“HNR”) that
    provides true ad hoc, mobile capabilities to network-centric
    military communications by providing fully mobile,
    high-bandwidth, long-range, line-of-sight connectivity between
    users of widely dispersed local area networks
    (“LANs”). Government Communications Systems also
    delivered the first 12 of 39 Large Aperture Multiband Deployable
    Antenna (“LAMDA”) rugged, highly-mobile satellite
    communications terminals for the U.S. Marine Corps and
    U.S. Air Force as part of a $42 million contract
    awarded to Harris in 2004 by the U.S. Army that also
    includes 25 Lightweight High Gain X-band Antenna
    (“LHGXA”) terminals. Ongoing previously awarded
    programs include: a contract to upgrade strategic satellite
    communications terminals for the U.S. Army; a contract to
    upgrade lightweight multiband satellite communications terminals
    for the U.S. Marine Corps; a contract with the
    U.S. Air Force for anti-jam global positioning system
    (“GPS”) technology for munitions; a contract to
    provide large, unfurlable spaceborne antennas for the Mobile
    User Objective System, a narrowband tactical satellite
    communications system that will enhance the
    U.S. Navy’s existing tactical satellite communications
    system; a contract with the U.S. Navy for MSSCT systems
    (the first MSSCT award); contracts for portions of the
    communications systems for the Ground-based Midcourse Defense
    (“GMD”) program (formerly known as National Missile
    Defense); follow-on awards for the U.S. Army’s
    Multiple Launch Rocket System program, including improved fire
    control systems (“IFCS”); a contract for MIDS
    terminals for aircraft such as the U.S. Navy’s
    F/A-18 and
    the U.S. Air Force’s F-16, as well as ground-based
    applications; and contracts for the F-22A Raptor,
    F/A-18E/F
    Super Hornet and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft platforms to
    provide high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed
    fiber optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links,
    image processing, digital map software and other electronic
    components.


 


    As noted above under “Item 1. Business —
    General,” the Department of Defense Programs area will be
    reported as part of our new Defense Communications and
    Electronics segment beginning with the first quarter of fiscal
    2008.


 


    National Intelligence Programs:  Government
    Communications Systems is a provider of communications equipment
    and systems and image and information processing solutions to
    national intelligence and security agencies and customers.
    Government Communications Systems provides comprehensive
    solutions for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance,
    addressing each of the six steps of the intelligence cycle:
    tasking, collection, processing, exploitation, dissemination and
    analysis of information. Government Communications Systems
    provides communications equipment, advanced imagery products and
    information processing for intelligence systems. It also
    develops and supplies state-of-the-art wireless surveillance and
    tracking equipment for vehicular, man-portable, airborne, and
    remote/unattended applications. Such integrated intelligence and
    surveillance solutions help improve situational awareness, data
    collection accuracy and product analysis by correlating near
    real-time mission data and intelligence reference data for
    display and analysis by strategic and tactical planners and
    decision makers. A significant portion of this business involves
    classified programs. While classified programs generally are not
    discussed in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    the operating results relating to classified programs are
    included in our consolidated financial statements. The business
    risks associated with such programs do not differ materially
    from those of other U.S. Government programs. During fiscal
    2007, we were awarded several new programs and follow-on
    contracts with national intelligence customers. Ongoing
    previously awarded programs include: a contract with Space
    Systems/Loral to design and construct unfurlable mesh reflectors
    for commercial satellites; a contract with the NSA for the
    Rapidly Deployable Integrated Command and Control System
    (“RADIC”) program pursuant to which we are developing
    a knowledge-management software system for NSA’s analysts.
    Government Communications Systems is also supplying geospatial
    and imagery-derived products for the NGA under the Global
    Geospatial Intelligence program, including foundation data
    products, three-dimensional visualization, mapping and charting
    production services, surveying services and production
    management.


 


    Civil Programs:  Government Communications
    Systems is a supplier to civilian agencies of the
    U.S. Government, including the FAA and the Census Bureau,
    supplying these agencies with custom systems and software
    designed to collect, store, retrieve, process, analyze,
    interpret, display and distribute information, including
    meteorological data processing systems, electronic archival
    systems, graphic information systems and telecommunication
    services systems. Government Communications Systems provides
    systems integration to large-scale, geographically dispersed
    enterprises.


 


    For example, Government Communications Systems is assisting the
    FAA in modernizing the U.S. air traffic control system and
    infrastructure. We are the prime contractor on a
    15-year,
    $2.2 billion contract to integrate and



    
    4



Table of Contents




    modernize the FAA’s Telecommunications Infrastructure
    (“FTI”). This program is consolidating
    telecommunications at more than 4,400 FAA facilities nationwide,
    while reducing operating costs, enhancing network efficiency,
    reliability and security and improving service. During fiscal
    2005, we were awarded a further contract by the FAA to add
    mission support services to the FTI program, as well as a
    follow-on contract for the FAA’s Weather and Advanced Radar
    Processing System. In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we
    completed the transition of FTI’s new satellite network to
    serve operational requirements and the new mission support
    network that provides the FAA’s administrative functions.
    The total contract amount for the FTI program, including
    options, could reach $3.5 billion through 2017. Government
    Communications Systems is also working with the FAA on other
    programs, including the Voice Switching and Control System
    program, which allows air traffic controllers to establish
    critical air-to-ground and ground-to-ground communications with
    pilots as well as other air traffic controllers.


 


    Government Communications Systems is a developer of complex,
    large-scale databases and information systems and services.
    Government Communications Systems is the prime contractor for
    the U.S. Census Bureau’s Master Address
    File/Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and
    Referencing Accuracy Improvement Project (“MTAIP”).
    The MTAIP contract was awarded to Harris in 2002 and during
    fiscal 2006 the U.S. Census Bureau exercised its option to
    extend the contract for four years. The MTAIP program will
    provide a computer database of all addresses and locations in
    the U.S. where people live or work, covering an estimated
    115 million residences and 60 million businesses in
    the U.S. During fiscal 2006, Government Communications
    Systems was awarded a five-year, $600 million contract from
    the U.S. Census Bureau as prime contractor for its Field
    Data Collection Automation (“FDCA”) program. Under the
    FDCA program, Government Communications Systems is integrating
    multiple automated systems and has developed a new handheld
    device with integrated GPS and secure communication capabilities
    that together will enable 500,000 census takers to
    electronically collect field data in door-to-door interviews
    during the 2010 census.


 


    Information Technology Services
    Programs:  Government Communications Systems
    provides technical engineering, operations and services to the
    U.S. Government. Such services include information
    technology outsourcing, enterprise management, engineering and
    systems design. Information technology outsourcing services
    include data entry, network administration, system operations
    and maintenance and procurement and logistics support.
    Enterprise management services include systems engineering and
    integration, network design, capacity expansions and information
    assurance and security. Ongoing programs include a contract with
    the NRO to provide operations, maintenance and support services
    for the agency’s global communications and information
    systems network (“Patriot”) in space and on the
    ground, which supports its global analyst community. The new
    processes, efficiency tools and centralized enterprise
    management system we are providing as part of the Patriot
    program are expected to yield more cost-effective information
    technology service management. The Patriot program has a
    potential value to us of $1 billion over 10 years.
    Other ongoing programs include: a contract with DISA in support
    of its Crisis Management System; a contract under the Mission
    Communications Operations and Maintenance (“MCOM”)
    program, pursuant to which Government Communications Systems
    provides operations and maintenance services to the
    U.S. Air Force Satellite Control Network’s
    communications functions at Schriever AFB, Colorado, and Onizuka
    AFS, California; a contract under the Operational Space Services
    and Support (“OSSS”) program, pursuant to which
    Government Communications Systems provides operations and
    maintenance services to the Air Force Satellite Control Network
    remote tracking stations and global positioning satellite sites
    worldwide. During fiscal 2007, Government Communications Systems
    was awarded a
    12-month,
    $42 million follow-on contract by the U.S. Department
    of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs to provide technical
    support services to more than 230 U.S. embassies and
    consulates around the world (“State 6”), including
    providing complete systems and operational support related to
    the high-volume business applications of the consulates and
    embassies, such as processing of approximately 5 million
    visa applications annually and other services required to
    support United States citizens living or traveling abroad. In
    support of this ongoing program for information technology
    systems and service modernization, Government Communications
    Systems provides system configuration management, system
    upgrades, help desk services, web development and training, and
    its support services benefit border protection initiatives with
    the addition of biometric technology to the visa application
    process. Also during fiscal 2007, we acquired Multimax. As noted
    above, we operate Multimax as part of our Information Technology
    Services Programs area. Multimax’s customers, including the
    U.S. Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Army, DHS, Department
    of State, Department of Veterans Affairs and FAA, broaden the
    customer base of our Information Technology Services Programs
    area. The acquisition of Multimax provides new growth
    opportunities through its key positions on major contracts, such
    as the Navy Marine Corps Intranet (“NMCI”) program,
    and GWACs including NETCENTS, EAGLE, ITES-2S and FirstSource,
    which are information technology procurement vehicles broadly
    accessible by U.S. Government agencies.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    Revenue, Backlog and Contracts:  Revenue in
    fiscal 2007 for the Government Communications Systems segment
    increased 10 percent to $1,997 million from
    $1,813 million in fiscal 2006 and was $1,805 million
    in fiscal 2005. Segment operating income increased
    4 percent to $225.6 million from $216.5 million
    in fiscal 2006 and was $203.4 million in fiscal 2005. This
    segment contributed 47 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2007, 52 percent in fiscal 2006 and 60 percent
    in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2007, approximately 30 percent of
    the revenue for this segment was under contracts with prime
    contractors and approximately 70 percent was under direct
    contracts with customers, compared to 33 percent of revenue
    under contracts with prime contractors and 67 percent of
    revenue under direct contracts with customers in fiscal 2006.
    Some of this segment’s more significant programs in fiscal
    2007 included the FTI program, the Patriot program, the FDCA
    program, the MCOM program, the
    F/A-18E/F
    Super Hornet platform and various classified programs. Other
    significant programs included the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter
    platform, IFCS, MTAIP, MIDS and several classified programs. The
    largest program by revenue represented approximately
    12 percent of this segment’s revenue for fiscal 2007,
    compared to approximately 10 percent for fiscal 2006. The
    10 largest programs by revenue represented approximately
    38 percent of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2007,
    33 percent in fiscal 2006 and approximately 31 percent
    in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2007, this segment had a diverse
    portfolio of over 300 programs. Historically, this diversity has
    provided a stable backlog and reduced potential risks that come
    from reductions in funding or changes in customer priorities. In
    fiscal 2007 and 2006, U.S. Government customers, whether
    directly or through prime contractors, accounted for
    approximately 95 percent of this segment’s total
    revenue, with the DoD accounting for 39 percent of this
    segment’s fiscal 2007 revenue and the FAA accounting for
    15 percent.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $402 million at July 27, 2007, compared with
    $382 million at July 28, 2006 and $410 million at
    July 29, 2005. Substantially all this funded backlog is
    expected to be filled during fiscal 2008, but we can give no
    assurance of such fulfillment. Unfunded backlog for this segment
    was $4,147 million at July 27, 2007, compared with
    $4,159 million at July 28, 2006 and
    $4,019 million at July 29, 2005. Additional
    information regarding funded and unfunded backlog for this
    segment is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Funded and Unfunded Backlog.”


 


    Most of the sales of the Government Communications Systems
    segment are made directly or indirectly to the
    U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts containing
    standard government contract clauses providing for
    redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination
    for the convenience of the U.S. Government or for default
    based upon performance. This segment’s contracts include
    both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts.
    Cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of
    allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. These contracts fall
    into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts,
    which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the
    final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee
    contracts, which provide for increases or decreases in the fee,
    within specified limits, based upon actual results compared to
    contractual targets relating to factors such as cost,
    performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus
    award-fee contracts, which provide for the payment of an award
    fee determined at the discretion of the customer based upon the
    performance of the contractor against pre-established
    performance criteria. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, this
    segment is reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and is
    paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some
    overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable
    for reimbursement by statute or regulation. Examples are certain
    merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs and certain
    litigation defense costs.


 


    This segment’s fixed-price contracts are either firm
    fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under
    firm fixed-price contracts, this segment agrees to perform a
    specific scope of work for a fixed price and, as a result,
    benefits from cost savings and carries the burden of cost
    overruns. Under fixed-price incentive contracts, this segment
    shares with the U.S. Government both savings accrued from
    contracts performed for less than target costs as well as costs
    incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price
    (which is higher than the target cost), but carries the entire
    burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price.
    Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be
    adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance
    objectives are met. Under firm fixed-price and fixed-price
    incentive contracts, this segment usually receives either
    milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract
    price or monthly progress payments from the U.S. Government
    in amounts equaling 75 percent of costs incurred under
    U.S. Government contracts. The remaining amounts, including
    profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final
    acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract.
    Fixed-price contracts generally have higher profit margins than
    cost-reimbursement contracts. Production contracts are mainly
    fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally
    cost-reimbursement contracts. For fiscal 2007, 51 percent
    of the revenue of this segment was generated from
    cost-reimbursement contracts and 49 percent was generated
    from fixed-price contracts compared to 52 percent and
    48 percent, respectively, in fiscal 2006 and
    60 percent and 40 percent, respectively, in fiscal
    2005. GWAC and Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity
    (“IDIQ”) contracts, which can include task orders for
    each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial



    
    6



Table of Contents




    contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under
    the contract. For a discussion of certain risks affecting this
    segment, see “Item 1. Business — Principal
    Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”


 



    RF
    Communications





    RF Communications is a worldwide supplier of secure voice and
    data radio communications products, systems and networks to the
    DoD, other Federal and state agencies, and allied government
    defense and peacekeeping forces. RF Communications offers a
    comprehensive line of secure radio products and systems for
    manpack, handheld, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard
    applications. These radio systems are highly flexible,
    interoperable and capable of supporting diverse mission
    requirements.


 


    RF Communications’
    Falcon®
    family of software-defined tactical radios includes the
    Falcon II secure high-frequency, very high-frequency, ultra
    high-frequency and multiband handheld, manpack and vehicular
    radio systems, and the Falcon III multiband, multimode,
    multimission handheld, manpack, vehicular and high-capacity data
    radios and secure personal role radio with wideband networking
    capability. These radios are built on a software-defined radio
    platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software
    upgrades. Software-defined radio technology offers significantly
    increased flexibility in support of a variety of wireless
    communications protocols. This common-platform, software-based
    system addresses the increasing need for an integrated
    high-frequency, very high-frequency and ultra high-frequency
    communication system. It also provides interconnectivity among
    land-based and wireless communications media. These radios also
    have military-strength embedded encryption and can be linked to
    computers, providing network capabilities on the battlefield.


 


    The Falcon III multiband handheld is the first tactical
    radio to be certified without waivers by the Joint Program
    Executive Office (“JPEO”) as fully compliant with the
    Software Communications Architecture (“SCA”) of the
    Joint Tactical Radio System (“JTRS”). The
    Falcon III handheld radio also has been certified by the
    NSA for the protection of voice and data traffic up through TOP
    SECRET/SCI level. Falcon III radios provide multimode
    capability, including secure ground-to-ground, ground-to-air,
    and long-range tactical satellite communications.
    Falcon III radios can be configured to accommodate
    vehicle-mounted functionality while providing handheld
    portability. Falcon III radios address a full range of
    evolving mission requirements, including backwards compatibility
    and interoperability with legacy systems, such as Single Channel
    Ground and Airborne Systems (“SINCGARS”), and are
    software upgradeable to incorporate new waveforms as they are
    developed. In fiscal 2007, RF Communications introduced the
    Falcon III multiband, multimission, manpack tactical radio
    which combines traditional multiband radio features with new
    capabilities such as commercial L-Band SATCOM and wideband
    mobile ad hoc networking; the very small and lightweight
    Falcon III secure personal role radio, which provides
    secure, digitized voice and data communications to an
    individual, and with wideband networking capability; and a
    high-capacity, line-of-site (“HCLOS”) radio, which is
    a lightweight, broadband, Ethernet system to securely transmit
    Internet Protocol (“IP”) traffic up to 50 kilometers
    and support throughput in excess of 70 megabits.


 


    RF Communications also provides tactical networking and data
    products which provide highly integrated and secure
    communications over high-frequency, very high-frequency and
    ultra high-frequency radio links. Key product areas include
    advanced networking interfaces, efficient email and image
    transmission software and advanced, high-frequency modems. For
    example, RF Communications’ tactical network access hub,
    together with the Falcon II radios, form the basis of the
    Harris Tactical Network that allows radio operators to send and
    receive phone calls and allows radio outstations to have
    wireless IP connectivity, extending telecommunication and
    local/wide area data networks down to the tactical radio level.
    These voice and data communications are secured by digital
    encryption. RF Communications’ wireless email and messaging
    systems, the Harris Wireless Gateway and Wireless Message
    Terminal, transfer electronic mail and files in a secure
    environment over high-frequency, very high-frequency and ultra
    high-frequency radio, landline, facsimile or satellite. These
    reliable and flexible email and messaging applications
    complement customers’ existing communications
    infrastructure and adhere to Federal and military standard
    high-frequency protocols. RF Communications’ digital video
    imaging products and systems include software for fast and
    reliable transmission of high-resolution digital imagery, motion
    video clips, text and other data over tactical radio
    communications channels.


 


    RF Communications also develops encryption solutions for markets
    with demanding communications security requirements, utilizing
    security algorithms that meet a wide range of applications
    and/or
    country needs to address unique privacy requirements of
    customers (whether a government agency or supplier or a
    commercial manufacturer) and providing NSA-certified products
    and systems that range from single integrated circuits to major
    communications systems. RF Communications’
    Sierratm
    II cryptographic subsystem is a miniaturized programmable module
    that can be integrated into radios and other voice and data
    communications devices to encrypt classified information prior
    to transmission and storage. Sierra II was certified in
    fiscal 2005 by the NSA. RF



    
    7



Table of Contents




    Communications’ encryption modules currently meet or exceed
    the highest security standards established by the
    U.S. Government. Sierra II can be used for tactical
    radios, wireless local area networks (“WLANs”), remote
    sensors, guided munitions and unmanned aerial vehicles. RF
    Communications also offers the
    Citadel®
    cryptographic engine which provides military grade, Type IV
    encryption, providing the ability for exportable encryption at a
    low cost for our family of Falcon II radios. RF
    Communications’ secure WLAN solution, SecNet
    11®
    Plus, is certified by the NSA’s Commercial COMSEC
    Endorsement Program (“CCEP”) and enables military and
    government users to communicate multimedia information,
    including data, voice and video, through a secure wireless
    network at 11 megabits per second. Leveraging the Sierra
    encryption module, SecNet 11 Plus enables government agencies to
    use commercial, state-of-the-art WLAN technology in a secure
    environment. RF Communications’ new SecNet
    54tm
    family of IP communications encryption products, designed to
    keep data, voice and video communications secure, is comprised
    of a modular architecture with two components: a cryptographic
    module that provides all security-critical functions and an
    external module that handles the transport of encrypted data
    over specific protocols. In fiscal 2007, RF Communications
    received Type 1 certification from the NSA for the new SecNet 54
    Secure Wireless Local Area Network product line, which enables
    transmission of sensitive defense communications over wireless
    infrastructures in applications such as tactical operations
    centers.


 


    RF Communications also provides unattended ground sensor
    systems, which are a force-multiplier solution with a network of
    easily deployable, remotely located products that detect
    movement of personnel and vehicles. RF Communications’
    Falcon
    Watchtm
    remote intrusion detection and surveillance systems are fully
    integrated with Falcon II radios and are designed for
    surveillance and monitoring of high-value assets such as troop
    encampments, airfields, base installations, supply routes and
    depots. In larger networks it also can be used to monitor and
    protect national borders, regional boundaries and assets in
    homeland defense and peacekeeping operations. These sensor
    systems can be comprised of remote, battery-operated, wireless
    sensors using seismic, magnetic
    and/or
    passive infra-red detectors; relays; Falcon tactical radios; and
    sensor management application software.


 


    The worldwide transformation to modernize and expand tactical
    communications capabilities to provide secure, interoperable and
    reliable communications continues to drive strong demand and
    positive results for this segment. Force modernization efforts,
    including ground force restructuring and expansion, have shown
    continued momentum and funding as the DoD continues to place a
    high priority on investment in tactical communications, seeking
    to deliver enhanced command, control and communications to more
    and smaller operating units. In fiscal 2007, RF Communications
    responded to requirements for its Falcon family of radios from a
    broad base of U.S. Government customers, including the
    U.S. Army, Marine Corps, Navy and Air Force.
    Internationally, RF Communications’ radios are the standard
    of NATO and Partnership for Peace countries. Orders in fiscal
    2007 were received from Kenya, the United Kingdom, Algeria,
    Iraq, Canada, Romania, Poland, Spain, Saudi Arabia, Belgium,
    Bulgaria, Denmark, the Republic of Georgia, the Netherlands,
    Afghanistan, Singapore and Nigeria.


 


    In May 2007, RF Communications was awarded an IDIQ contract with
    a maximum value of $422 million from the U.S. Army for
    Falcon II HF manpack tactical radios and related vehicular
    and base station systems. RF Communications received an initial
    $104 million order against the contract in the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2007. In June 2007, RF Communications was
    awarded an IDIQ contract by the JTRS JPEO to supply the DoD with
    JTRS-approved Falcon III multiband handheld tactical radios
    and vehicular systems. The contract has a one-year maximum value
    of $2.7 billion and a five-year maximum value of
    approximately $7 billion (including additional options that
    may be exercised over a five-year period). Under the contract,
    orders will be awarded based on competitive bidding between RF
    Communications and one other supplier.


 


    Revenue in fiscal 2007 for the RF Communications segment
    increased 46 percent to $1,179 million from
    $809 million in fiscal 2006 and was $537 million in
    fiscal 2005. Segment operating income increased 45 percent
    to $403.2 million in fiscal 2007, compared to
    $278.9 million in fiscal 2006 and was $166.5 million
    in fiscal 2005. The RF Communications segment contributed
    27 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007,
    23 percent in fiscal 2006 and 17 percent in fiscal
    2005. In fiscal 2007, approximately 28 percent of the
    revenue of this segment was derived outside of the United
    States, compared to 37 percent in fiscal 2006 and
    45 percent in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2007,
    U.S. Government customers, whether directly or through
    others, accounted for approximately 76 percent of this
    segment’s total revenue, compared to 72 percent in
    fiscal 2006 and 54 percent in fiscal 2005.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business.”


 


    The backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $767 million at July 27, 2007, compared to
    $703 million at July 28, 2006 and $427 million at
    July 29, 2005. Approximately 85 percent of this
    backlog of unfilled orders is



    
    8



Table of Contents




    expected to be filled during fiscal 2008, but we can give no
    assurance of such fulfillment. For a discussion of certain risks
    affecting this segment, see “Item 1.
    Business — Principal Customers; Government
    Contracts,” “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”


 


    As noted above under “Item 1. Business —
    General,” the RF Communications segment will be combined
    with our Department of Defense Programs area and reported as
    part of our new Defense Communications and Electronics segment
    beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2008.


 



    Broadcast
    Communications





    Broadcast Communications’ hardware and software solutions
    offer a comprehensive approach from a single provider of
    workflow capabilities along the entire broadcast chain to
    support and simplify the complete content creation, management,
    distribution and delivery process for broadcast, cable,
    satellite, telecommunications and other media content providers.
    This segment serves the global digital and analog markets,
    providing video infrastructure & digital media
    products and solutions, enterprise software systems and
    solutions, and television and radio transmission equipment and
    systems.


 


    The current trend and future of broadcast media involves
    digitizing content and transporting it simultaneously over many
    different networks to many types of devices. The need to create,
    manage and ultimately deliver digital media content is driving
    an infrastructure upgrade cycle for the media industry.
    Broadcast Communications is supporting customers as they expand
    services for high definition (“HD”) TV, IP TV,
    video-on-demand
    and interactive TV. Recent acquisitions and a series of new
    products have established Broadcast Communications as a provider
    of end-to-end solutions for the digital and HD infrastructure
    build-out worldwide. These acquisitions include: Encoda Systems
    Holdings, Inc. (“Encoda”) in fiscal 2005 and Leitch
    Technology Corporation (“Leitch”), Optimal Solutions,
    Inc. (“OSi”) and the Aastra Digital Video business
    (“Aastra Digital Video”) of Aastra Technologies in
    fiscal 2006. New products include: Harris Assured
    Designstm,
    a series of preconfigured and tested systems that address
    customers’ specific functional and workflow-level
    requirements, offering the value proposition that a single
    company can provide one pre-configured solution versus
    integrating multiple products from multiple vendors; Harris
    Channel
    ONEtm,
    a complete solution for automated TV channels that combines a
    high-quality graphics playout server, animation, live video,
    video clips, audio, real-time external data feeds and master
    control functionality in a single chassis, enabling broadcasters
    to produce and air complete television channels in HD or
    standard definition (“SD”); and the NewsForce family
    of next-generation SD and HD news editors leveraging the full
    portfolio of Broadcast Communications solutions, including
    digital video asset management, automation, encoding,
    multiviewer, routing and test and measurement. Broadcast
    Communications has also developed the
    CENTRIOtm
    multi-image processor, which combines a graphics engine, a
    broadcast-quality router and integrated, precise test and
    measurement tools to streamline complex audio/visual monitoring
    workflow and simplify installation.


 


    Video Infrastructure & Digital
    Media:  Broadcast Communications’ video
    infrastructure & digital media product offerings,
    which were significantly expanded by the fiscal 2006
    acquisitions of Leitch and Aastra Digital Video, include SD and
    HD products and systems that enable media companies to
    streamline workflow from production through transmission.
    Broadcast Communications provides a comprehensive,
    next-generation portfolio of signal processors, display
    processors, routers, master control and branding systems,
    network monitoring and control software, and test and
    measurement instruments that support content throughout the
    workflow application chain. Broadcast Communications also
    provides highly differentiated network access and multiplex
    platforms, including the Harris Intraplex and
    NetVXtm
    solutions, which offer customized integrated management and
    distribution applications for any content across any connection
    to support television, government video and public safety
    applications. Products also include the
    Platinumtm
    large router for mixed video and audio signal routing, the
    IconMastertm
    digital master control system and the
    Videotek®
    line of precision test and measurement instruments.


 


    Broadcast Communications’ digital media products include
    scalable, interoperable, shared storage server systems and open
    platform production and automated graphics, editing and digital
    signage solutions for broadcast and post production. Products
    include the
    NEXIOtm
    family of scalable, interoperable video servers that employ open
    standards to accelerate time-to-air and reduce the costs
    associated with content acquisition, production, distribution
    and media management and the Inscriber line of graphics and
    titling products.


 


    Software Solutions:  Broadcast
    Communications’ software solutions offering, which was
    significantly expanded with the fiscal 2005 acquisition of
    Encoda and the fiscal 2006 acquisition of OSi, enables customers
    to manage their digital media workflow through a portfolio of
    software solutions for advertising, media management (traffic,
    billing and program scheduling), broadband, digital video asset
    management, and play-out automation. Broadcast Communications
    offers modular, standards-based solutions with open application
    programming interfaces (“APIs”)



    
    9



Table of Contents




    for ease of integration and future scalability. Products include
    the
    H-Classtm
    Content Delivery Platform, OSi
    Traffictm
    software and the
    Inveniotm
    Digital Asset Management solution. The
    H-Classtm
    Content Delivery Platform represents an integrated approach to
    content management at the enterprise level — from
    ingest to distribution over a variety of devices or networks.
    H-Class provides broadcasters and other media, entertainment and
    content distribution customers with a means to integrate
    disparate processes from creation to consumption into a single,
    modular system.


 


    Transmission Systems:  Broadcast Communications
    develops, manufactures and supplies digital and analog
    television transmission systems for delivery of rich media over
    wireless broadcast terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis,
    including global broadcast and emerging mobile applications.
    Broadcast Communications also develops, manufactures and
    supplies end-to-end products, systems and services for the radio
    broadcast market. Broadcast Communications offers a wide range
    of digital television (“DTV”)  products that can
    support requirements for large international systems. In
    response to the U.S. Government-mandated transition from
    analog to digital transmission, Broadcast Communications
    provided the nation’s first advanced DTV transmitter, as
    well as the first commercial DTV application and is a leader
    with respect to the U.S. digital standard known as
    “ATSC.” Broadcast Communications continues to develop
    next-generation transmission equipment to provide broadcasters
    with a smooth path from analog to digital broadcasting.
    Broadcast Communications is also a provider of European-standard
    digital “DVB-T” transmission equipment.


 


    Broadcast Communications is also expanding efforts to reach the
    emerging mobile television market under the concept of
    transmitting real-time television to personal devices such as
    cell phones, PDAs or other mobile devices. Broadcast
    Communications is developing and providing transmission
    equipment for various mobile video broadcasting trials in
    Australia, China, the Netherlands, the U.K. and the
    U.S. Recent advances in compression and transmission
    technology (two areas in which Broadcast Communications has been
    a leader) will allow broadcasters to deliver content
    representative of typical live broadcast television programming,
    as opposed to the short video clips that are the current
    standard in mobile video. In fiscal 2007, Broadcast
    Communications and LG Electronics Inc. introduced the
    jointly-developed
    MPHtm
    in-band mobile DTV system
    (“Mobile-Pedestrian-Handheld” or “MPH”), a
    new technology capable of providing DTV signals and extending
    over-the-air broadcast TV signals beyond customary TV viewing at
    home to mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as
    mobile phones or laptop computers).


 


    Broadcast Communications’ radio transmission product
    offerings include digital and analog radio transmission systems,
    radio studio systems and consoles, and many proprietary
    technologies that reduce the cost of conversion to digital
    transmission and enable such new services as surround sound and
    multi-channel operation. Broadcast Communications can provide
    single products or complete systems that range from single-radio
    studios to consolidated operations and complete nationwide
    networks with hundreds of radio transmitters. Its solutions are
    scalable to meet the needs of radio broadcasters of different
    sizes. Broadcast Communications is a leader in the transition
    from analog to digital radio. Product offerings address the
    U.S. digital standard called “IBOC”
    (In-Band/On-Channel), which is referred to in the market as
    “HD
    Radio®”,
    as well as international digital standards including
    “DAB” (Digital Audio Broadcasting) and “DRM”
    (Digital Radio Mondiale). The rollout of HD Radio in the
    U.S. continues to progress with approximately 1,400
    stations currently on-air with HD Radio and approximately 1,900
    of the approximately 12,000 remaining radio stations expected to
    implement HD Radio over the next several years. Radio
    transmission products include the
    FLEXSTARtm
    family, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so
    broadcasters can offer supplemental audio and data capability
    along with the main program stream. This enables broadcasters to
    develop new revenue-generating opportunities including multiple
    programs on the same channel, 5.1 surround sound, on-demand
    traffic, weather and sports reports,
    store-and-play
    capabilities and real-time navigation. During the fourth quarter
    of fiscal 2007, we exited our radio resale distribution channel,
    which involved sales of non-Harris OEM radio products at low
    gross margins, sold primarily through a telemarketing group.


 


    Revenue for the Broadcast Communications segment increased
    11 percent from $538 million in fiscal 2006 to
    $600 million in fiscal 2007 and was $384 million in
    fiscal 2005. Segment operating income was $11.9 million in
    fiscal 2007, compared to $22.8 million in fiscal 2006 and
    $18.1 million in fiscal 2005. The Broadcast Communications
    segment contributed 14 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2007, 15 percent in fiscal 2006 and 12 percent
    in fiscal 2005. Approximately 46 percent of the revenue of
    this segment was derived outside of the United States in fiscal
    2007, compared to 41 percent in fiscal 2006 and
    34 percent in fiscal 2005. Principal customers for
    Broadcast Communications’ products and services include
    domestic and international television and radio broadcast
    stations; cable and satellite networks and service providers;
    telecommunications providers; Federal agencies; public safety
    entities; advertising agencies; and content originators. No
    single customer accounted for more than 2 percent of fiscal
    2007 revenue for the Broadcast Communications segment.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business.”


 


    The backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $323 million at July 27, 2007, compared with
    $240 million at July 28, 2006 and $210 million at
    July 29, 2005. Approximately 66 percent of this
    backlog is expected to be filled during fiscal 2008, but we can
    give no assurance of such fulfillment. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, see “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings.”


 



    Harris
    Stratex Networks





    As described in greater detail above under “Item 1.
    Business — Recent Acquisitions and Business
    Combinations,” in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we
    combined our former Microwave Communications Division with
    Stratex to form Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. We own
    approximately 57 percent of Harris Stratex Networks’
    outstanding stock and the minority stockholders own
    approximately 43 percent. Following the combination, our
    business segment formerly referred to as Microwave
    Communications is now referred to as Harris Stratex Networks and
    includes the results of the combined business for periods
    following the combination.


 


    Harris Stratex Networks is a global independent supplier of
    turnkey wireless transmission network solutions. Harris Stratex
    Networks offers reliable, flexible, scalable and cost-efficient
    wireless transmission network solutions, including microwave
    radio systems and network management software, which are backed
    by comprehensive services and support. Harris Stratex Networks
    designs, manufactures and sells a range of wireless transmission
    networking products, solutions and services to customers in more
    than 135 countries around the world, including mobile and fixed
    telephone service providers, private network operators,
    government agencies, transportation and utility companies,
    public safety agencies and broadcast system operators. Harris
    Stratex Networks’ products include point-to-point digital
    microwave radio systems for mobile system access, backhaul,
    trunking, license-exempt applications and network management
    systems, supporting new network deployments, network expansion
    and capacity upgrades. Harris Stratex Networks provides its
    products and services principally to the North America
    microwave, international microwave and network operations
    markets.


 


    North America Microwave:  Harris Stratex
    Networks serves the North America microwave market by offering
    microwave radio products and services to major national carriers
    and other cellular network operators, public safety operators
    and other government agencies, systems integrators,
    transportation and utility companies and other private network
    operators. A large part of the North American microwave market
    lies in the cellular backhaul and public safety markets.


 


    International Microwave:  Harris Stratex
    Networks serves the international microwave market by offering
    microwave radio products and services to regional and national
    carriers and other cellular network operators, public safety
    operators, government and defense agencies and other private
    network operators in every region outside of North America.
    Harris Stratex Networks’ wireless transmission systems
    deliver regional and country-wide backbone in developing
    nations, where microwave radio installations provide
    21st-century
    communications rapidly and economically. Rural communities,
    areas with rugged terrain and regions with extreme temperatures
    benefit from the ability to build an advanced, affordable
    communications infrastructure despite these challenges.


 


    Network Operations:  Harris Stratex Networks
    serves the network operations market by offering a wide range of
    software-based network management solutions for network
    operators worldwide, from element management to turnkey,
    end-to-end network management and service assurance solutions
    for virtually any type of communications or information
    network — including broadband, wireline, wireless and
    converged networks. Harris Stratex Networks develops, designs,
    produces, sells and services network management systems,
    including the
    NetBoss®
    product line, for these applications. Other element management
    product families include
    ProVision®
    and
    StarViewtm.


 


    In general, wireless transmission networks are constructed using
    microwave radios and other equipment to connect cell sites,
    switching systems, land mobile radio systems, wireline
    transmission systems and other fixed-access facilities and other
    communications systems. Wireless networks range in size from a
    single transmission link connecting two buildings to complex
    networks comprised of thousands of wireless connections. The
    architecture of a network is influenced by several factors,
    including the available radio frequency spectrum, coordination
    of frequencies with existing infrastructure, application
    requirements, environmental factors and local geography. For
    many applications, microwave systems offer a lower-cost,
    highly-reliable and more easily deployable alternative to
    competing wireline transmission media, such as fiber, copper or
    coaxial cable.



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Harris Stratex Networks’ principal product families of
    licensed point-to-point microwave radios include
    Eclipsetm,
    a platform for nodal wireless transmission systems, and
    TRuepoint®,
    a platform for high-performance point-to-point wireless
    communications. The Eclipse product line combines wireless
    transmission functions with network processing node functions,
    including many functions that, for non-nodal products, would
    have to be purchased separately. System functions include voice,
    data and video transport, node management, multiplexing, routing
    and cross-connection. Eclipse is designed to simplify complex
    networks and lower the total cost of ownership over the product
    life. With frequency coverage from 5 to 38 gigahertz, low to
    high-capacity operation and traditional time-division
    multiplexing and Ethernet transmission capabilities, Eclipse is
    designed to support a wide range of long- and short-haul
    applications. Eclipse is software-configurable, enabling easy
    capacity upgrades, and gives users the ability to plan and
    deploy networks and adapt to changing conditions at minimal cost
    and disruption. Harris Stratex Networks’ TRuepoint product
    family offers full
    plug-and-play,
    software programmable microwave radio configuration. It delivers
    service from 4 to 180 megabits per second capacity at
    frequencies ranging from 6 to 38 gigahertz. TRuepoint is
    designed to meet the current and future needs of network
    operators, including mobile, private network, government and
    access service providers. The unique architecture of the core
    platform reduces both capital expenditures and life cycle costs,
    while meeting international and North American standards. The
    software-based architecture enables migration from traditional
    microwave access applications to higher-capacity transport
    interconnections. Harris Stratex Networks also offers two
    license-exempt point-to-point microwave radio product families.


 


    Harris Stratex Networks’ network management product
    families include NetBoss, ProVision and StarView. These product
    families offer a broad set of choices for all levels of network
    management, from enterprise-wide management and service
    assurance to element management. NetBoss is a family of network
    management and service assurance solutions for managing
    multi-vendor, multi-technology communications networks. NetBoss
    supports wireless and wireline networks of many types, offering
    fault management, performance management, service activation and
    assurance, billing mediation and operational support system
    (“OSS”) integration. As a modular, off-the-shelf
    product, it enables customers to implement management systems
    immediately or gradually, as their needs dictate. NetBoss XE
    offers advanced element management. NetBoss products are
    optimized to work seamlessly with Harris Stratex Networks
    digital microwave radios, such as the TRuepoint family, but can
    also be customized to manage products based on any network or
    computing technology. The ProVision element manager is a
    centralized network monitoring and control system optimized for
    Eclipse and TRuepoint products.


 


    Approximately 66 percent of the revenue of this segment was
    derived outside of the United States in fiscal 2007, compared to
    57 percent in fiscal 2006 and 46 percent in fiscal
    2005. This segment generally sells its North American products
    and services directly to customers through its sales
    organization and through established distribution channels. In
    international markets, this segment markets and sells its
    products and services through regional sales offices and
    established distribution channels, using agents and
    distributors. See “Item 1. Business —
    International Business.”


 


    Revenue in fiscal 2007 for the Harris Stratex Networks segment
    increased 46 percent from $349 million in fiscal 2006
    to $508 million in fiscal 2007 and was $320 million in
    fiscal 2005. This segment had operating income of
    $146.9 million in fiscal 2007, compared to an operating
    loss of $19.6 million in fiscal 2006 and operating income
    of $7.7 million in fiscal 2005. This segment contributed
    12 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2007,
    10 percent in fiscal 2006 and 11 percent in fiscal
    2005.


 


    The backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $232 million at July 27, 2007, compared with
    $164 million at July 28, 2006 and $94 million at
    July 29, 2005. Substantially all of this backlog is
    expected to be filled during fiscal 2008, but we can give no
    assurance of such fulfillment. For a discussion of certain risks
    affecting this segment, see “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”


 



    International
    Business





    Revenue in fiscal 2007 from products exported from the United
    States (including foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad
    was $964.4 million (23 percent of our total revenue),
    compared with $746.5 million (21 percent of our total
    revenue) in fiscal 2006 and $559.0 million (19 percent
    of our total revenue) in fiscal 2005. Our international sales
    include both direct exports from the United States and sales
    from foreign subsidiaries. Most of the international sales are
    derived from the Harris Stratex Networks, RF Communications and
    Broadcast Communications segments. Direct export sales are
    primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, whereas sales from
    foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local
    currency of the subsidiary. Exports from the United States,
    principally to Europe, Africa, Canada, Latin America and Asia,
    totaled $613.9 million (64 percent of our
    international revenue) in fiscal 2007, $418.0 million
    (56 percent of our international revenue) in fiscal 2006
    and $326.6 million (58 percent of our international
    revenue) in fiscal 2005. Foreign operations represented
    8 percent of



    
    12



Table of Contents




    revenue in fiscal 2007, 9 percent of revenue in fiscal 2006
    and 8 percent of revenue in fiscal 2005. Foreign operations
    represented 28 percent of long-lived assets as of
    June 29, 2007 and 24 percent of long-lived assets as
    of June 30, 2006. Financial information regarding our
    domestic and international operations is contained in
    Note 23: Business Segments in the Notes and
    is incorporated herein by reference.


 


    Principal international manufacturing facilities are located in
    Canada, China and the United Kingdom. The majority of our
    international marketing activities are conducted through
    subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, Central and South
    America and Asia. We have also established international
    marketing organizations and several regional sales offices.
    Reference is made to Exhibit 21 “Subsidiaries of the
    Registrant” for further information regarding our foreign
    subsidiaries.


 


    We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers,
    distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and
    sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically
    and internationally. These independent representatives may buy
    for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or
    governmental customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the
    ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or
    established by the independent representative and may be above
    or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally
    receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those
    prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer.
    During fiscal 2007, revenue from indirect sales channels
    represented 9 percent of our total revenue and
    32 percent of our international revenue, compared to
    revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2006 representing
    6 percent of our total revenue and 23 percent of our
    international revenue.


 


    Fiscal 2007 revenue came from a large number of foreign
    countries, of which no single country accounted for
    3 percent or more of our total revenue. Some of our exports
    are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried
    either on an open account or installment note basis. Advance
    payments, progress payments or other similar payments received
    prior to, or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs
    incurred. Significant foreign government contracts generally
    require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to stay
    competitive in international markets, we also enter into
    recourse and vendor financing to facilitate sales to certain
    customers.


 


    The particular economic, social and political conditions for
    business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those
    encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that
    the overall business risk for the international business as a
    whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic
    operations as a whole. A description of the types of risks to
    which we are subject in international business is contained in
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Nevertheless, in the
    opinion of our management, these risks are offset by the
    diversification of the international business and the protection
    provided by letters of credit and advance payments.


 



    Competition





    We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to
    technological advances. Although successful product and systems
    development is not necessarily dependent on substantial
    financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our
    businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels
    of expenditures for research and development. In each of our
    businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our
    management believes are compatible with our resources, overall
    technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive
    factors in these businesses are cost-effectiveness, product
    quality and reliability, technological capabilities, service,
    past performance, ability to develop and implement complex,
    integrated solutions, ability to meet delivery schedules and the
    effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international
    areas.


 


    In the Government Communications Systems segment principal
    competitors include: Accenture, BAE Systems, Boeing, Computer
    Sciences, General Dynamics, ITT Industries, L-3 Communications,
    Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, Rockwell Collins
    and SAIC. Consolidation among U.S. defense and aerospace
    companies has resulted in a reduction in the number of principal
    prime contractors. As a result of this consolidation, we
    frequently “partner” or are involved in subcontracting
    and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to
    time, competitors on other programs.


 


    In the RF Communications segment principal competitors include:
    General Dynamics, ITT Industries, Raytheon, Rohde &
    Schwarz, Tadiran and Thales.


 


    In the Broadcast Communications segment principal competitors
    include: Avid, Broadcast Electronics, Chyron, Evertz, Harmonic,
    Microsystems, Miranda, Nautel, NEC, Omneon, Omnibus, Pilat
    Media, Rad Systems, Rohde & Schwarz, Sony, Tektronix,
    Thomson/Grass Valley, Thomson/Thales, Vizrt and Wide Orbit, as
    well as other smaller companies and divisions of large
    companies. We believe that our broad product offering and total
    content delivery solutions are key competitive strengths for
    this segment.



    
    13



Table of Contents




    In the Harris Stratex Networks segment principal competitors
    include: Alcatel-Lucent, Ceragon, Ericsson, Eltek-Nera, Fujitsu,
    NEC, Nokia-Siemens and Tadiran, as well as other smaller
    companies. Several competitors to this segment are original
    equipment manufacturers or systems integrators through which the
    segment sometimes distributes and sells products and services to
    end-users. We believe that network and systems engineering
    support and service are key competitive strengths for this
    segment.


 



    Principal
    Customers; Government Contracts





    Sales to the U.S. Government, which is our only customer
    accounting for two percent or more of our total revenue, were
    66 percent of our total revenue in each of fiscal 2007,
    2006 and 2005. Additional information regarding customers for
    each of our segments is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Description of Business by Segment.”
    Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from
    contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the
    U.S. Government. U.S. Government contracts are
    terminable for the convenience of the U.S. Government, as
    well as for default based on performance. Companies supplying
    goods and services to the U.S. Government are dependent on
    Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of
    funds and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government
    policies resulting from various military, political and
    international developments. Long-term government contracts and
    related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for
    subsequent performance periods become unavailable. Under
    contracts terminable for the convenience of the
    U.S. Government, a contractor is entitled to receive
    payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the
    proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done.
    Contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that
    the U.S. Government pays only for the work it has accepted
    and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost
    of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages.
    In many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the
    complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and
    difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on
    developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Under
    many U.S. Government contracts, we are required to maintain
    facility and personnel security clearances complying with DoD
    and other Federal agency requirements. For further discussion of
    risks relating to U.S. Government contracts, see the
    discussion regarding “Government Communications
    Systems” under “Item 1. Business —
    Description of Business by Segment for the Fiscal Year Ended
    June 29, 2007” and see “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”


 



    Funded
    and Unfunded Backlog





    Our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was
    approximately $5,871 million at July 27, 2007,
    $5,641 million at July 28, 2006 and
    $5,160 million at July 29, 2005. The funded portion of
    this backlog was approximately $1,724 million at
    July 27, 2007, $1,482 million at July 28, 2006
    and $1,141 million at July 29, 2005. The determination
    of backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with
    respect to customer requirements contracts and development and
    production contracts of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature.


 


    We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for which
    funding has been authorized. Unfunded backlog is primarily
    unfilled firm and expected follow-on orders that have not yet
    met our established funding criteria. Our established funding
    criteria require both authorization by the customer as well as
    our management’s determination that there is little or no
    risk to the authorized funding being rescinded. In fiscal 2008,
    we expect to fill approximately 85 percent of our total
    funded backlog as of July 27, 2007. However, there can be
    no assurance that our funded backlog will become revenue in any
    particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery
    delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control.
    Additional information with regard to the backlog of each of our
    segments is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Description of Business by Segment for the
    Fiscal Year Ended June 29, 2007” and
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering





    Research, development and engineering expenditures totaled
    approximately $924 million in fiscal 2007,
    $824 million in fiscal 2006 and $879 million in fiscal
    2005.


 


    Company-sponsored research and product development costs, which
    included research and development for commercial products and
    independent research and development related to government
    products and services, were approximately $235 million in
    fiscal 2007, $198 million in fiscal 2006 and
    $146 million in fiscal 2005. A portion of our independent
    research and development costs are allocated among contracts and
    programs in process under U.S. Government contractual
    arrangements. Company-sponsored research and product development
    costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when
    incurred. The portion of total research, development and
    engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was
    funded by a combination of U.S. Government and commercial
    customers and is included in our revenue. Company-funded
    research is directed to the development of



    
    14



Table of Contents




    new products and to building technological capability in
    selected communications and electronic systems markets.
    U.S. Government-funded research helps strengthen and
    broaden our technical capabilities. All of our segments maintain
    their own engineering and new product development departments,
    with scientific assistance provided by advanced-technology
    departments. As of June 29, 2007, we employed approximately
    6,800 engineers and scientists and are continuing efforts to
    make the technologies developed in any of our business segments
    available for all other business segments.


 



    Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property





    We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the
    aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large and
    valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how,
    confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other
    intellectual property. We also license intellectual property to
    and from third parties. As of June 29, 2007, we held
    approximately 967 U.S. patents and 659 foreign patents, and
    had approximately 554 U.S. patent applications pending
    and 1,012 foreign patent applications pending. However, we do
    not consider our business or any business segment to be
    materially dependent upon any single patent, license or other
    intellectual property right, or any group of related patents,
    licenses or other intellectual property rights. We are engaged
    in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a
    number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which
    generate royalty income. Although existing license agreements
    have generated income in past years and may do so in the future,
    there can be no assurances we will enter into additional
    income-producing license agreements. From time to time we engage
    in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual
    property. Any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks,
    copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged,
    invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive
    advantages. With regard to patents relating to our Government
    Communications Systems segment, the U.S. Government often
    has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license,
    pursuant to which the U.S. Government may use or authorize
    others to use the inventions covered by such patents. Pursuant
    to similar arrangements, the U.S. Government may consent to
    our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons.
    Numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products
    are also considered to be a valuable asset.


 



    Environmental
    and Other Regulations





    Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic
    and international laws and regulations designed to protect the
    environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions.
    The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common
    within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve.
    We believe that we have complied with these requirements and
    that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    Based upon currently available information, we do not expect
    expenditures to protect the environment and to comply with
    current environmental laws and regulations over the next several
    years to have a material impact on our competitive or financial
    position, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures
    will not exceed current expectations. If future laws and
    regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently
    anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present
    estimates of those expenditures. We have installed waste
    treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy
    legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and
    prevention goals. We did not spend material amounts on
    environmental capital projects in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. A
    portion of our environmental expenditures relates to
    discontinued operations for which we have retained certain
    environmental liabilities. We currently expect that amounts to
    be spent for environmental-related capital projects will not be
    material in fiscal 2008. These amounts may increase in future
    years. Additional information regarding environmental and
    regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” and in Note 1: Significant Accounting
    Policies in the Notes.


 


    Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental
    regulation in a number of jurisdictions. Equipment produced by
    our Broadcast Communications and Harris Stratex Networks
    segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and
    international requirements requiring end-of-life management
    and/or
    restricting materials in products delivered to customers,
    including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on
    Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and
    Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of certain
    Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
    (“RoHS”). Such requirements are not applicable to most
    equipment produced by our Government Communications Systems and
    RF Communications segments. We believe that we have complied
    with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect
    to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend
    to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our
    future products.


 


    Radio communications are also subject to governmental
    regulation. Equipment produced by our Broadcast Communications
    and Harris Stratex Networks segments, in particular, is subject
    to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference
    among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit
    interconnection of telecommunications equipment. We believe that
    we have complied with such rules and regulations with respect to



    
    15



Table of Contents




    our existing products, and we intend to comply with such rules
    and regulations with respect to our future products.
    Reallocation of the frequency spectrum also could impact our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Raw
    Materials and Supplies





    Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well
    as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use
    numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as
    electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and
    plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. We are
    dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number
    of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers
    and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials
    restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications
    and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent upon
    one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature
    of a particular item or because of local content preference
    requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project.
    While we have been affected by financial and performance issues
    of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been
    materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw
    materials or products. In fiscal 2007, our Broadcast
    Communications segment experienced component shortages from
    vendors as a result of the new RoHS environmental regulations in
    the European Union, which became effective on July 1, 2006.
    These regulations caused a spike in demand for lead-free
    electronic components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain
    shortages.


 



    Seasonality





    No material portion of our business is considered to be
    seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our
    revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of
    U.S. Government contract awards, the availability of
    funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance.


 



    Employees





    As of June 29, 2007, we employed approximately
    16,000 people, compared with approximately
    13,900 employees at the end of fiscal 2006. Approximately
    89 percent of our employees are located in the United
    States. A significant number of employees in our Government
    Communications Systems segment possess a security clearance. We
    also utilize a number of independent contractors. None of our
    employees in the United States is represented by a labor union.
    In certain international subsidiaries, our employees are
    represented by workers’ councils or statutory labor unions.
    In general, we believe that our relations with our employees are
    good.


 



    Website
    Access to Harris Reports; Available Information





    General.  We maintain an Internet website at
    http://www.harris.com.
    Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, are available free of charge on our website as soon as
    reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”). We also will provide the reports
    in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request. We also
    make available free of charge on our website our annual report
    to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the
    information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All
    reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available
    free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and
    retrieval (“EDGAR”) system available through the
    SEC’s website at
    http://www.sec.gov.
    The public may read and copy any materials filed by us with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at
    1-800-SEC-0330.


 


    Additional information relating to our businesses, including our
    operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations.”


 


    Corporate Governance Principles and Committee
    Charters.  We previously adopted Corporate
    Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate
    Governance section of our website at
    www.harris.com/harris/cg/. In addition, the charters of
    each of the committees of our Board, namely, the Audit
    Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility
    Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and
    Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also
    available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A
    copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon
    written request to our Corporate Secretary at Harris
    Corporation, 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida
    32919.


 


    Certifications.  We have filed with the SEC the
    certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our
    Chief Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange in
    November 2006 in accordance with



    
    16



Table of Contents




    the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a
    certification that he was not aware of any violation by Harris
    of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    We have described many of the trends and other factors that
    could impact our business and future results in
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In
    addition, our business, operating results, cash flows and
    financial condition are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth
    below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary
    materially from recent results or our anticipated future results.


 



    We
    participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain
    economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth
    in our markets and, as a result, future income and
    expenditures.





    We participate in markets that are subject to uncertain economic
    conditions. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level
    of growth in some of the markets in which we participate.
    Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are
    dependent upon estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the
    uncertainty renders estimates of future income and expenditures
    even more difficult. As a result, we may make significant
    investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated
    benefits, which could adversely affect our results of
    operations. The future direction of the overall domestic and
    global economies also will have a significant impact on our
    overall performance.


 



    We
    depend on the U.S. Government for a significant portion of our
    revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in U.S.
    Government funding could have adverse consequences on our future
    business.





    We are highly dependent on sales to the U.S. Government.
    Approximately 66 percent of our net revenue in each of
    fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 was derived from sales to the
    U.S. Government. Therefore, any significant disruption or
    deterioration of our relationship with the U.S. Government
    would significantly reduce our revenue. Our U.S. Government
    programs must compete with programs managed by other government
    contractors for limited resources and for uncertain levels of
    funding. Our competitors continuously engage in efforts to
    expand their business relationships with the
    U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the
    future. The U.S. Government may choose to use other
    contractors for its limited number of programs. In addition, the
    funding of programs also competes with non-procurement spending
    of the U.S. Government. Budget decisions made by the
    U.S. Government are outside of our control and have
    long-term consequences for our business. A shift in
    U.S. Government spending to other programs in which we are
    not involved, an increase in non-procurement spending or a
    reduction in U.S. Government spending generally, could have
    material adverse consequences for our business.


 



    We
    depend significantly on our U.S. Government contracts, which
    often are only partially funded, subject to immediate
    termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination
    or failure to fund one or more of these contracts could have an
    adverse impact on our business.





    Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be
    implemented by the award of many different individual contracts
    and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs
    is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year
    contracts may be planned or authorized in connection with major
    procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal
    year basis even though a program may continue for several years.
    Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding
    initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress
    authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding
    for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of
    anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which
    could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the
    termination of a program or the failure to commit additional
    funds to a program that already has been started could result in
    lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business.


 


    Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. In
    addition, the contracts generally contain provisions permitting
    termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the
    U.S. Government’s convenience upon the payment only
    for work done and commitments made at the time of termination.
    We can give no assurance that one or more of our
    U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under
    these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we
    would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or
    backlog lost as a result of any termination of our
    U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of
    our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under
    our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more
    large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition.


 


    Our government business also is subject to specific procurement
    regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other
    requirements. These requirements, although customary in
    U.S. Government contracts, increase our



    
    17



Table of Contents




    performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in
    the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an
    adverse effect on our financial condition. Failure to comply
    with these regulations and requirements could lead to suspension
    or debarment from U.S. Government contracting or
    subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for
    debarment are violations of various statutes, including those
    related to procurement integrity, export control,
    U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices,
    protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the
    recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a
    U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any
    of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and
    could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for
    future U.S. Government contracts.


 



    We
    enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses
    in the event of cost overruns.





    We have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. During fiscal
    2007 and 2006, approximately 33 percent and
    38 percent, respectively, of our total Government
    Communications Systems and RF Communications segments’
    revenue was from fixed-price contracts. These contracts allow us
    to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the burden of
    potential cost overruns since we assume all of the cost risk. If
    our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these
    contracts. U.S. Government contracts can expose us to
    potentially large losses because the U.S. Government can
    hold us responsible for completing a project or, in certain
    circumstances, paying the entire cost of its replacement by
    another provider regardless of the size or foreseeability of any
    cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. Because
    many of these contracts involve new technologies and
    applications and can last for years, unforeseen events, such as
    technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw
    materials, problems with other contractors and cost overruns,
    can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or
    even unprofitable to us over time. Furthermore, if we do not
    meet contract deadlines or specifications, we may need to
    renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay
    penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the
    customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, some of
    our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and
    audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in
    those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Our
    results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize
    our earnings from our contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost
    overruns and cost controls would have an adverse impact on our
    financial results. Furthermore, the potential impact of this
    risk on our earnings, results of operations and financial
    results would be magnified by a shift in the mix of our
    contracts and programs toward a greater percentage of firm
    fixed-price contracts.


 



    We
    derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international
    operations and are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.





    We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United
    States. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, revenue from products
    exported from the U.S. or manufactured abroad was
    23 percent, 21 percent and 19 percent,
    respectively, of our total revenue. Approximately
    36 percent of our international business in fiscal 2007 was
    transacted in local currency environments. Losses resulting from
    currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. We
    expect that international revenue will continue to account for a
    significant portion of our total revenue. Also, a significant
    portion of our international revenue is in less-developed
    countries. We are subject to risks of doing business
    internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and
    currency revaluations;






     
        • 

    
    The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments
    relating to investments and operations, as well as
    U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies
    abroad;






     
        • 

    
    Changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of
    tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade
    restrictions;






     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of
    funding, credit or guarantees;






     
        • 

    
    The complexity and necessity of using foreign dealers,
    distributors, sales representatives and consultants;






     
        • 

    
    The difficulty of managing an organization doing business in
    many countries;






     
        • 

    
    Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as
    well as unforeseen changes in export regulations;






     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for
    onerous contract clauses; and






     
        • 

    
    Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies,
    political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of
    international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation.





 


    While these factors and the impacts of these factors are
    difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition and results of
    operations in the future.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Our
    future success will depend on our ability to develop new
    products that achieve market acceptance.





    Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized
    by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry
    standards. Accordingly, our future performance depends on a
    number of factors, including our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Identify emerging technological trends in our target markets;






     
        • 

    
    Develop and maintain competitive products;






     
        • 

    
    Enhance our products by adding innovative hardware, software or
    other features that differentiate our products from those of our
    competitors; and






     
        • 

    
    Manufacture and bring cost-effective products to market quickly.





 


    We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future,
    we will need to continue to develop new products, which will
    require the investment of significant financial resources in new
    product development. The need to make these expenditures could
    divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we
    cannot be sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to
    the timely development of new products. Due to the design
    complexity of some of our products, we may experience delays in
    completing development and introducing new products in the
    future. Any delays could result in increased costs of
    development or redirect resources from other projects. In
    addition, we cannot provide assurances that the markets for our
    products will develop as we currently anticipate. The failure of
    our products to gain market acceptance could significantly
    reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot
    be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products
    that gain market acceptance in advance of our products or that
    our competitors will not develop new products that cause our
    existing products to become obsolete. If we fail in our new
    product development efforts or our products fail to achieve
    market acceptance more rapidly than those of our competitors,
    our revenue will decline and our business, financial condition
    and results of operations will be adversely affected.


 



    We
    cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events,
    but they may affect adversely the markets in which we operate,
    our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our
    profitability.





    The terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11,
    2001, the subsequent
    U.S.-led
    military response, current conflicts in the Middle East and the
    potential for future terrorist activities and other recent
    geo-political events have created economic and political
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our
    business and the prices of our securities. These matters have
    caused uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance
    markets and may increase significantly the political, economic
    and social instability in the geographic areas in which we
    operate. These matters also have caused the premiums charged for
    our insurance coverages to increase and may cause some coverages
    to be unavailable altogether. While our government businesses
    have benefited from homeland defense initiatives and the war on
    terror, these developments may affect adversely our business and
    profitability and the prices of our securities in ways that we
    cannot predict at this time.


 



    We
    have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that
    involve significant risks and uncertainties.





    We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic
    acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
    These risks and uncertainties include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and
    operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the
    risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other
    problems associated with integration;






     
        • 

    
    Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and
    other benefits expected from acquisitions;






     
        • 

    
    Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the
    strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be
    successful in those markets;






     
        • 

    
    Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the
    limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the
    financial resources of any indemnifying parties;






     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of key employees of the acquired
    businesses; and






     
        • 

    
    Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our
    existing operations.





 



    The
    inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers
    to timely deliver our components or products, could cause our
    products to be produced in an untimely or unsatisfactory
    manner.





    On many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. In addition,
    there are certain parts or components which we source from other
    manufacturers or vendors. Some of our suppliers, from time to
    time, experience financial and operational difficulties, which
    may impact their ability to supply the materials, components and
    subsystems that we require. Any inability to develop alternative
    sources of supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could
    materially impair our ability to manufacture and deliver
    products to our customers. We can give no assurances that we
    will be free from material supply problems or component or
    subsystems problems in the future. Also, our subcontractors



    
    19



Table of Contents




    and other suppliers may not be able to maintain the quality of
    the materials, components and subsystems they supply, which
    might result in greater product returns and warranty claims and
    could harm our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe
    upon our intellectual property rights.





    Many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous
    protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which
    often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly their intellectual
    property rights, and we may be found to be infringing or to have
    infringed directly or indirectly those intellectual property
    rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also
    require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements.
    Moreover, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license
    agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be
    subject to significant damages or injunctions against
    development and sale of certain of our products. Our success
    depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on
    a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets,
    know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements
    to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. If we
    fail to successfully protect and enforce these rights, our
    competitive position could suffer. Our pending patent and
    trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or
    competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents
    or trademark registrations. In addition, our patents may not
    provide us a significant competitive advantage. We may be
    required to spend significant resources to monitor and police
    our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect
    infringement and our competitive position may be harmed before
    we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our
    technology or develop competing technologies.


 



    The
    outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is
    unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could
    have a material adverse affect on our financial position and
    results of operations.





    We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are
    involved in a number of arbitrations. These actions may divert
    financial and management resources that would otherwise be used
    to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the
    results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An
    adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a
    material adverse affect on our financial condition.


 



    We are
    subject to customer credit risk.





    We sometimes provide medium-term and long-term customer
    financing. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a
    portion of the purchase price for our products and services, as
    well as working capital. We also may assist customers in
    obtaining financing from banks and other sources on a recourse
    or non-recourse basis. While we generally have been able to
    place a portion of our customer financings with third-party
    lenders, or to otherwise insure a portion of this risk, a
    portion of these financings is provided directly by us. There
    can be higher risks associated with some of these financings,
    particularly when provided to
    start-up
    operations such as local network providers, to customers in
    developing countries or to customers in specific
    financing-intensive areas of the telecommunications industry. If
    customers fail to meet their obligations, losses could be
    incurred and such losses could have an adverse effect on us. Our
    losses could be much greater if it becomes more difficult to
    place or insure against these risks with third parties. These
    risks may increase when the availability of credit decreases.


 



    Developing
    new technologies entails significant risks and
    uncertainties.





    We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products
    and services we provide. A significant portion of our business
    relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced
    defense and technology systems and products. New technologies
    associated with these systems and products may be untested or
    unproven. Components of certain of the defense systems and
    products we develop are inherently dangerous. Failures of
    satellites, missile systems, air-traffic control systems,
    homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential
    to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. In most
    circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the
    U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain
    risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate
    to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear
    substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not
    possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational
    risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an
    incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity and our
    insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating
    results and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for
    which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively
    affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby
    making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and
    could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate
    insurance in the future.



    
    20



Table of Contents





    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.





    Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a
    number of factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;






     
        • 

    
    Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;






     
        • 

    
    Increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including
    write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and
    impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;






     
        • 

    
    Changes in available tax credits;






     
        • 

    
    Changes in share-based compensation expense;






     
        • 

    
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;






     
        • 

    
    Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax
    laws; and






     
        • 

    
    The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities.





 


    Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    adversely impact net income for future periods.


 



    Our
    consolidated financial results may be impacted by Harris Stratex
    Networks’ financial results, which may vary significantly
    and be difficult to forecast.





    We consolidate Harris Stratex Networks’ financial results
    in our results of operations. Harris Stratex Networks’
    financial results may vary significantly in the future and may
    be affected by a number of factors (many of which are outside of
    our and Harris Stratex Networks’ control), and accordingly
    are expected to be difficult to forecast. Delays in product
    delivery or closing of a sale can cause quarterly revenues and
    quarterly net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated
    levels. In addition, Harris Stratex Networks may increase
    spending in response to competition or in pursuit of new market
    opportunities. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurances that
    Harris Stratex Networks will be able to achieve profitability in
    the future or, if profitability is attained, that Harris Stratex
    Networks will be able to sustain profitability, particularly on
    a quarter-to-quarter basis.


 


    Because we consolidate Harris Stratex Networks’ financial
    results in our results of operations, fluctuations in and
    difficulty in forecasting Harris Stratex Networks’
    financial results will result in fluctuations in and likely
    greater difficulty in forecasting our consolidated results of
    operations. As a result, such fluctuations and forecasting
    difficulty may impact our consolidated financial results.


 



    We
    have significant operations in Florida that could be impacted in
    the event of a hurricane and operations in California that could
    be impacted in the event of an earthquake.





    Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our
    Government Communications Systems segment are located in
    Florida. In addition, our Broadcast Communications and Harris
    Stratex Networks segments have locations near major earthquake
    fault lines in California. In the event of a major hurricane,
    earthquake or other natural disaster we could experience
    business interruptions, destruction of facilities
    and/or loss
    of life, all of which could materially adversely affect our
    business.


 



    Changes
    in future business conditions could cause business investments
    and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in
    substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results
    of operations.





    As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time,
    acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These
    investments are made upon careful target analysis and due
    diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or
    strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain
    assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After
    acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely
    affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not
    recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately 35 percent of our recorded total assets. We
    evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts
    annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The
    annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring
    judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting segment
    cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate
    potential impairment of recorded goodwill. For additional
    information on accounting policies we have in place for goodwill
    impairment, see our discussion under “Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” and Note 1: Significant
    Accounting Policies in the Notes.


 



    In
    order to be successful, we must attract and retain key
    employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm
    us.





    Our business has a continuing need to attract significant
    numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding
    security clearances, to support our growth and to replace
    individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or
    for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified
    personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case in recent



    
    21



Table of Contents




    years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training
    costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could
    experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our
    needs for such employees were unmet.







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B