Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. All
    forward-looking
    statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction
    with, those risk factors.
    Forward-looking
    statements are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions
    of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
    (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
    Act”), and we undertake no obligation, other than imposed
    by law, to update
    forward-looking
    statements to reflect further developments or information
    obtained after the date of filing of this Report or, in the case
    of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that
    document, and disclaim any obligation to do so.



 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS.





 



    HARRIS





    Harris Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, is an
    international communications and information technology company
    serving government and commercial markets in more than 150
    countries. We are dedicated to developing
    best-in-class
    assured
    communications®

    products, systems and services for global markets, including RF
    communications, government communications and broadcast
    communications.


 


    Harris Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the
    successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Our principal
    executive offices are located at 1025 West NASA Boulevard,
    Melbourne, Florida 32919, and our telephone number is
    (321) 727-9100.
    Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
    the symbol “HRS.” On July 2, 2010, we employed
    approximately 15,800 people. Unless the context otherwise
    requires, the terms “we,” “our,”
    “us,” “Company” and “Harris” as
    used in this Report refer to Harris Corporation and its
    subsidiaries.


 



    General





    We structure our operations primarily around the products and
    services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report our
    financial results in the following three business segments:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our RF Communications segment, comprised of our
    (i) Tactical Radio Communications and (ii) Public
    Safety and Professional Communications businesses;








     
        • 

    
    Our Government Communications Systems segment, comprised of our
    (i) Defense Programs, (ii) National Intelligence
    Programs, (iii) Civil Programs and (iv) IT Services
    businesses; and








     
        • 

    
    Our Broadcast Communications segment, comprised of our
    (i) Workflow, Infrastructure and Networking Solutions,
    (ii) Media and (iii) Transmission Systems businesses.





 


    In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, in connection with the
    May 27, 2009 spin-off (the “Spin-off”) in the
    form of a taxable pro rata dividend to our shareholders of all
    the shares of Harris Stratex Networks, Inc. (now known as Aviat
    Networks, Inc.) (“HSTX”) common stock owned by us, we
    eliminated as a reporting segment our former HSTX segment.
    Accordingly, our historical financial results have been restated
    to account for HSTX as discontinued operations for all periods
    presented in this Report, and unless otherwise specified,
    disclosures in this Report relate





    
    1



Table of Contents





    solely to our continuing operations. For additional information
    regarding discontinued operations, see Note 3:
    Discontinued Operations in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in this Report (the “Notes”).


 


    Financial information with respect to all of our other
    activities, including corporate costs not allocated to the
    business segments or discontinued operations, is reported as
    part of the “Unallocated corporate expense” or
    “Non-operating
    income (loss)” line items in our Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 



    Recent
    Acquisitions





    Acquisition of Patriot Technologies, LLC.  On
    November 16, 2009, we acquired Patriot Technologies, LLC
    (“Patriot”), which was privately held and had about
    100 employees. Patriot is a leading provider of Department
    of Veterans Affairs (“VA”) healthcare information
    technology (“IT”), imaging and enterprise software
    solutions. We report Patriot within our Government
    Communications Systems segment. The acquisition of Patriot
    expanded our position as a leading provider of integrated and
    interoperable healthcare IT solutions for the
    U.S. Government market. Additionally, we believe the
    acquisition further positions us for providing a comprehensive
    solution addressing the national priority of integrating the VA
    and Military Health Systems.


 


    Acquisition of SignaCert, Inc.  On May 28,
    2010, we acquired privately held SignaCert, Inc.
    (“SignaCert”), a leading provider of IT compliance
    solutions that form the foundation for software supply chain
    assurance. We report SignaCert within our Government
    Communications Systems segment. The acquisition of SignaCert
    expanded our position as a leading provider of cyber solutions
    for U.S. Government and commercial customers, strengthened
    our cyber leadership team, brings discriminating technology to
    our cyber portfolio and better positions us to provide trusted,
    comprehensive solutions that address the national priority of
    enhancing critical cyber infrastructure.


 



    Subsequent
    Event — Acquisition of CapRock





    On July 30, 2010, after the end of our fiscal 2010, we
    acquired privately held CapRock Holdings, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries, including CapRock Communications, Inc.
    (collectively, “CapRock”), a global provider of
    mission-critical
    managed satellite communications services for the government,
    energy and maritime markets. CapRock’s highly reliable
    solutions include broadband Internet access, voice over Internet
    Protocol (“VOIP”) telephony, wideband networking and
    real-time video, delivered to nearly 2,000 customer sites around
    the world, including many very harsh and remote locations, by
    leveraging
    best-of-breed
    partnerships, technical expertise and its robust global
    infrastructure that includes four self-owned and operated
    teleports and eleven regional support centers across North
    America, Central and South America, Europe, West Africa and Asia
    Pacific. The purchase price for CapRock was $525 million in
    cash, subject to possible post-closing upward or downward
    adjustment. We will report CapRock within our Government
    Communications Systems segment. The acquisition of CapRock
    increased the breadth of our assured
    communications®

    capabilities while enabling us to enter new vertical markets and
    increase our international presence.


 



    Financial
    Information About Our Business Segments





    Financial information with respect to our business segments,
    including revenue, operating income or loss and total assets,
    and with respect to our operations outside the United States, is
    contained in Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes
    and is incorporated herein by reference.


 



    Description
    of Business by Segment


 



    RF
    Communications





    RF Communications is a global supplier of secure tactical radio
    communications and embedded high-grade encryption solutions for
    military and government organizations and also of secure
    communications systems and equipment for public safety, utility
    and transportation markets. RF Communications is comprised of
    our (i) Tactical Radio Communications and (ii) Public
    Safety and Professional Communications businesses.


 


    Tactical Radio Communications:  We design,
    develop and manufacture a comprehensive line of secure radio
    communications products and systems for manpack, handheld,
    soldier-worn, vehicular, strategic fixed-site and shipboard
    applications that operate in various radio frequency
    bands — high-frequency (“HF”), very
    high-frequency (“VHF”) and ultra high-frequency
    (“UHF”) — over satellite communications
    (“SATCOM”) and in multiband mode. These radio systems
    are highly flexible, interoperable and capable of supporting
    diverse mission requirements. Our
    Falcon®

    family of tactical radios is built on a software-defined radio
    platform that is reprogrammable to add features or software
    upgrades. Our Falcon radios also have the highest grade embedded
    encryption and provide highly mobile, secure and reliable
    network communications capability without relying on a fixed
    infrastructure. This capability allows warfighters, for example,
    to remain connected with each other, their command structures
    and





    
    2



Table of Contents





    support organizations, and gives them the ability to communicate
    information and maintain situational awareness of both friendly
    and opposing forces, which are critical to both the safety and
    success of their missions.


 


    Unlike many of our competitors in the U.S. Government
    market, we operate this business on a “commercial”
    customer and market-driven business model, as opposed to a
    government programs-driven business model. This means that we
    anticipate market needs, invest our internal research and
    development resources, build to our internal forecast, and
    provide
    ready-to-ship,
    commercial,
    off-the-shelf
    (“COTS”) products to customers more quickly than
    customers can typically obtain similar products under
    government-funded programs.


 


    Our Falcon
    III®

    family of radios is the next generation of multiband,
    multi-mission tactical radios, which supports the
    U.S. military’s Joint Tactical Radio System
    (“JTRS”) requirements as well as network-centric
    operations worldwide. Our Falcon III radios address the
    full range of current mission and interoperability requirements
    and are fully upgradeable to address changing technical
    standards and mission requirements of the future. Advances in
    our Falcon III radios include extended frequency range,
    significant reductions in weight and size compared with previous
    generations and programmable encryption.


 


    Our Falcon III multiband handheld radio, the AN/PRC-152(C)
    (“152C”), is the world’s most widely deployed
    JTRS-approved software-defined handheld radio and was our first
    Falcon III radio to be fielded. We have successfully
    fielded more than 100,000 152Cs, which are widely fielded by all
    branches of the U.S. Department of Defense
    (“DoD”), many allies worldwide and U.S. Federal
    agencies. The 152C offers users a wide range of capabilities,
    such as legacy Single Channel Ground and Airborne System
    (“SINCGARS”) interoperability; UHF
    ground-to-ground
    line-of-sight
    communications; close-air support; tactical SATCOM; and the
    Association of Public Safety Communications
    Officials — International (“APCO”) P25
    waveform to provide direct communications with first responders.
    The 152C also serves as the handheld-based transceiver of our
    Falcon III AN/VRC-110, a
    high-performance,
    multiband vehicular system that offers the added feature of easy
    vehicle dismount — a
    “grab-and-go”
    feature that delivers continuous communications when removed
    from the vehicle, an important capability in urban environments.


 


    Our Falcon III multiband manpack radio, the AN/PRC-117G
    (“117G”), is the first JTRS Software Communications
    Architecture (“JTRS SCA”)-certified and National
    Security Agency (“NSA”) Type-1 certified manpack radio
    system providing wideband networking capability, enabling the
    transition to a networked battlefield communications environment
    and high-bandwidth applications such as streaming video,
    simultaneous voice and data feeds, collaborative chat, and
    connectivity to secure networks (“SIPRNet”). The
    117G’s wideband network access capabilities give
    warfighters and field commanders critical real-time information.
    The 117G has been deployed to all branches of the DoD and is
    being used in a wide variety of ground, vehicular and airborne
    applications, including intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance (“ISR”). The radio offers an extended
    frequency range of 30 megahertz to 2 gigahertz. The 117G
    includes a Remote Operated Video Enhanced Receiver
    (“ROVER”) interoperable mode that provides warfighters
    on the battlefield with the ability to receive live video
    directly from unmanned aerial vehicles (“UAVs”). This
    capability allows users to receive video feeds directly from
    UAVs without an intermediary or having to pass that information
    from a base station. In fiscal 2010, we announced the
    development of new mission modules that can be integrated with
    new and already fielded 117Gs to provide greater flexibility and
    mission-specific customization of the radios. The modules enable
    users to add to the 117G, quickly, seamlessly, selectively and
    on an as-needed basis, advanced capabilities and expanded
    functions such as a second wideband radio channel, an HF radio
    channel or an ISR module. The modules also are a “future
    focused” solution designed to keep pace with changing
    technologies in tactical communications, allowing integration
    into the 117G of newly developed capabilities to address future
    requirements.


 


    Our cryptographic solutions encompass NSA-certified products and
    systems that range from single integrated circuits to major
    communications systems, including our
    Sierra®

    and
    Citadel®

    embedded encryption solutions and our SecNet
    11®

    and SecNet
    54tm

    Internet Protocol (“IP”) communications families of
    communications security (“COMSEC”) terminals.


 


    In the international market, our tactical radios are the
    standard of NATO and Partnership for Peace countries and are
    sold to more than 100 countries through our strong, longstanding
    international distribution channels consisting of regional sales
    offices and a broad dealer network. International tactical radio
    demand is being driven by continuing tactical communications
    modernization and standardization programs to provide more
    sophisticated communications capabilities to address traditional
    and emerging threats and to provide interoperability. In fiscal
    2010, we received tactical radio orders from,
    and/or made
    deliveries to, a wide range of international customers,
    including Australia, Ethiopia, Iraq, Mexico, Pakistan, Saudi
    Arabia, Sweden and Yemen, as well as other countries in the
    Middle East and Central Asia. Additionally, we are providing
    integrated communications systems for the international market.
    Our integrated systems offerings are largely based on our
    products, but include other





    
    3



Table of Contents





    companies’ products, as well as a wide variety of
    applications, in order to implement integrated command, control,
    communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and
    reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) systems for many different
    types of platforms, including command post and transit case
    systems, vehicular and shelter communications systems and
    specialized airborne applications, which are frequently used in
    border security and surveillance systems.


 


    Public Safety and Professional
    Communications:  We supply assured
    communications®

    systems and equipment for public safety, federal, utility,
    commercial and transportation markets, with products ranging
    from complete
    end-to-end
    wireless network infrastructure solutions, including advanced IP
    voice and data networks, that support multiple platforms and
    provide interoperability among disparate systems, to portable
    and mobile single-band and multiband radios, to public
    safety-grade broadband video and data solutions. On May 29,
    2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets of the Tyco
    Electronics wireless systems business (“Wireless
    Systems”) (formerly known as M/A-COM). Our acquisition of
    Wireless Systems served to form our Public Safety and
    Professional Communications business. This business has more
    than 80 years of experience and supports over 500 systems
    around the world.


 


    As part of our business of designing, building, distributing,
    maintaining and supplying wireless communications systems, we
    offer our Voice, Interoperability, Data and Access
    (“VIDA”) network solution — a unique,
    cost-effective
    IP-based
    network that is flexible, responsive, expandable and easily
    upgradeable, and that supports a full line of communications
    systems, including
    OpenSky®,

    NetworkFirst,
    P25IP and

    Enhanced Digital Access Communication System
    (“EDACS”), allowing seamless interconnection of
    diverse systems. Our VIDA network solutions currently serve as
    the backbone in some of the largest and most advanced statewide
    and regional communications networks in North America, including
    the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and State of Florida.


 


    In addition to a full range of single-band land mobile radio
    terminals, we offer our
    Unitytm

    family of multiband radios, including the Unity XG-100P handheld
    radio and the new Unity XG-100M full-spectrum mobile radio. Our
    Unity multiband radios cover all public safety frequency bands
    in a single radio; operate on APCO P25 conventional and trunked
    systems; are backwards compatible with analog FM systems; and
    include advanced capabilities, such as an internal Global
    Positioning System (“GPS”) receiver for situational
    awareness, internal secure
    Bluetooth®

    wireless technology, and background noise suppression features.
    They also include true software-defined radio architecture that
    allows flexibility for future growth, including a software-only
    upgrade to APCO P25 Phase 2, the next-generation emerging
    standard for mission-critical communications. Our Unity
    radios’ multiband, multi-mode capabilities enable a single
    radio to communicate with multiple organizations, jurisdictions
    and agencies operating on different frequencies and systems,
    thus providing a significant improvement over most current radio
    systems for U.S. public safety, which are not interoperable
    and thus require users to carry multiple radios or route
    transmissions through ad-hoc network bridges, often configured
    at the time of an emergency, and creating instances where
    agencies responding to a common incident cannot talk to each
    other.


 


    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the RF Communications segment increased 17 percent to
    $2,067 million in fiscal 2010 compared with
    $1,761 million in fiscal 2009, and was $1,507 million
    in fiscal 2008. Segment operating income increased
    24 percent to $707.4 million in fiscal 2010 compared
    with $571.5 million in fiscal 2009, and was
    $525.5 million in fiscal 2008. The RF Communications
    segment contributed 40 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2010 compared with 35 percent in fiscal 2009 and
    32 percent in fiscal 2008. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was 20 percent in fiscal 2010 compared with
    39 percent in fiscal 2009 and 27 percent in fiscal
    2008. U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, accounted for approximately
    66 percent of this segment’s total revenue in fiscal
    2010 compared with approximately 79 percent in fiscal 2009
    and 82 percent in fiscal 2008. For a general description of
    our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, including a
    discussion of revenue generated from
    cost-reimbursement
    versus fixed-price contracts, see “Item 1.
    Business — Principal Customers; Government
    Contracts” of this Report.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $1,764 million at July 2, 2010 compared with
    $922 million at July 3, 2009 and $982 million at
    June 27, 2008. We expect to fill approximately
    79 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2011, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
    information regarding funded backlog is provided under
    “Item 1. Business — Funded and Unfunded
    Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks
    affecting this segment, including risks relating to our
    U.S. Government contracts





    
    4



Table of Contents





    and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business —
    Principal Customers; Government Contracts,”
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Report.


 



    Government
    Communications Systems





    Government Communications Systems conducts advanced research
    studies and produces, integrates and supports highly reliable,
    net-centric communications and information technology that solve
    the mission-critical challenges of our defense, intelligence and
    civilian U.S. Government customers, and is comprised of our
    (i) Defense Programs, (ii) National Intelligence
    Programs, (iii) Civil Programs and (iv) IT Services
    businesses. Also, as described under “Item 1.
    Business — Subsequent Event — Acquisition of
    CapRock” of this Report, on July 30, 2010, we acquired
    CapRock, which we will report within our Government
    Communications Systems segment.


 


    Defense Programs:  We develop, supply and
    integrate communications and information processing products,
    systems and networks for a diverse base of aerospace,
    terrestrial and maritime applications supporting DoD missions,
    and we are committed to delivering leading-edge technologies
    that support the military’s ongoing transformation to
    network-centric communications. Our technologies are providing
    advanced mobile wideband networking capabilities to assure
    timely and secure network-centric capabilities across strategic,
    operational and tactical boundaries in support of the DoD’s
    full spectrum of warfighting, intelligence and logistics
    missions. Our major technology capabilities include SATCOM
    terminals for transportable ground, fixed-site and shipboard
    applications; flat-panel and phased-array antennas; aviation
    electronics for military jets and helicopters, including radios,
    digital maps, modems, sensors, data buses, fiber optics and
    microelectronics; high-speed data links and data networks for
    wireless communications and smart weapons; and advanced ground
    control systems.


 


    For example, our mobile ad hoc networking capability allows the
    military to take its communications infrastructure with it,
    creating mobile, self-forming and self-healing networks across
    the battlefield. Our Highband Networking
    Radiotm

    (“HNR”) provides secure, wireless, high-bandwidth (30
    megabits per second),
    on-the-move
    communications among users of widely dispersed local area
    networks (“LANs”) by establishing
    line-of-sight
    connectivity using a Harris-developed waveform that
    automatically selects the best communications path available,
    allowing seamless communication of voice, video and data to all
    levels of command. We announced in fiscal 2009 that our HNR
    system was deployed to the U.S. Army 101st Airborne
    Division (Air Assault) 2nd Brigade Combat Team in Iraq,
    which was the first combat deployment of the HNR system. In
    fiscal 2010, we were awarded a contract to provide HNRs to form
    the communications backbone of the U.S. Army’s new
    Integrated Air and Missile Defense Battle Command System
    (“IBCS”). We also are currently producing and
    delivering HNRs under a Warfighter Information Network-Tactical
    (“WIN-T”) Increment 2 low-rate initial production
    (“LRIP”) contract. HNRs provide the first-ever use of
    directive beam technology to achieve higher throughput over
    longer distances in a robust, self-forming and self-healing
    directional mesh network.


 


    Examples of ongoing programs for us include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The U.S. Army Modernization of Enterprise Terminals
    (“MET”) program, for which we are developing, under a
    ten-year contract awarded to us in fiscal 2009 that is
    potentially worth $600 million, next-generation large
    satellite earth stations to provide the worldwide backbone for
    high-priority military communications and missile defense
    systems and to support IP and Dedicated Circuit Connectivity
    within the Global Information Grid (“GIG”), providing
    critical reach-back capability for the warfighter;








     
        • 

    
    The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”), F-22 Raptor
    and
    F/A-18E/F
    Super Hornet aircraft platform programs, for which we provide
    high-performance, advanced avionics such as high-speed fiber
    optic networking and switching, intra-flight data links, image
    processing, digital map software and other electronic
    components, including Multifunction Advanced Data Link
    (“MADL”) communications subsystems primarily intended
    for stealth platform
    air-to-air
    communications and which allow F-35s to communicate in a stealth
    fashion with other network nodes without revealing their
    positions;








     
        • 

    
    The WIN-T program for the U.S. Army, for which we are
    designing and testing the wireless transmission system
    architecture, applying our proven enabling technologies for
    wireless
    on-the-move
    communications, including phased arrays and high-speed secure
    wireless network solutions such as our HNR system;








     
        • 

    
    The Multiple Launch Rocket System (“MLRS”) Improved
    Fire Control System (“IFCS”) program for the
    U.S. Army, for which we provide the launcher interface
    unit, power switching unit and weapon interface unit; and








     
        • 

    
    The Commercial Broadband Satellite Program (“CBSP”)
    for the U.S. Navy, for which we supply broadband multiband
    SATCOM terminals that support essential mission requirements and
    provide enhanced
    morale-related
    communications services such as high-speed Internet access and
    video communications, and for which we successfully completed in
    fiscal 2010 development of the Unit Level Variant
    (“ULV”) and Force Level Variant (“FLV”)
    and delivery of the first production lot of ULV terminals.







    
    5



Table of Contents




 


    National Intelligence Programs:  A significant
    portion of this business involves classified programs. While
    classified programs generally are not discussed in this Report,
    the operating results relating to classified programs are
    included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe
    that the business risks associated with those programs do not
    differ materially from the business risks of other
    U.S. Government programs.


 


    We are a major developer, supplier and integrator of
    communications and information processing products, systems and
    networks for a diverse base of U.S. Intelligence Community
    programs, and we support the ongoing transformation of the
    Intelligence Community into a more collaborative enterprise.
    Serving primarily national intelligence and security agency
    customers, including NSA and the National
    Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (“NGA”), we provide ISR
    solutions that improve situational awareness, data collection
    accuracy and product analysis by correlating near real-time
    mission data and intelligence reference data for display and
    analysis by strategic and tactical planners and decision makers.
    Our ISR systems help to integrate information across the analyst
    workflow, accelerating the movement of information that has been
    collected and processed. We strive to produce innovative ISR
    solutions that provide our customers with information dominance
    for battle-space superiority.


 


    For example, our image processing capabilities extend from
    algorithm development through delivery of operations systems,
    and we are providing advanced image exploitation and
    dissemination solutions for ISR applications by advancing image
    processing, image data fusion, display technologies and digital
    product generation techniques. Those technologies range from new
    techniques for merging and displaying imagery to automated
    techniques for image screening, cueing and remote visualization.
    Also, our mapping and visualization capabilities provide
    complete, accurate and timely knowledge about the threat, the
    terrain, the status and the location of single or multiple
    opposing and friendly forces and their support by utilizing
    data, pictures, voice and video drawn from vast storage banks or
    from real-time input which can be transmitted around the world
    in fractions of a second. In addition, we have industry-leading
    capabilities in the architecture, design and development of
    highly specialized satellite antennas, structures, phased arrays
    and on-board processors, which are used to enable
    next-generation satellite systems to provide the
    U.S. military and intelligence communities with strategic
    and tactical advantages. We are also a leader in the design and
    development of antenna and reflector technologies for commercial
    space telecommunications applications. Further, our capabilities
    include developing and supplying
    state-of-the-art
    wireless voice and data products and solutions, including
    surveillance and tracking equipment, spanning vehicular,
    man-portable,
    airborne and system-level applications for the
    U.S. Intelligence Community and law enforcement community.


 


    During fiscal 2010, we were awarded a number of new contracts
    and follow-on contracts under classified programs. We also have
    expanded our capabilities and customer footprint in the cyber
    security market through our acquisition of Crucial Security,
    Inc. (“Crucial”) in fiscal 2009. Crucial offers an
    array of mission-enabling engineering solutions that address
    both offensive and defensive IT security challenges, providing
    critical support to Federal law enforcement and other
    U.S. Government agencies.


 


    Civil Programs:  We provide highly reliable,
    mission-critical communications and information processing
    systems that meet the most demanding needs of customers in the
    U.S. civilian Federal market, including the Federal
    Aviation Administration (“FAA”), Census Bureau,
    National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
    (“NOAA”) and Department of Health and Human Services
    (“HHS”). We use our ability to implement and manage
    large, complex programs that integrate secure, advanced
    communications and information processing technologies in order
    to improve productivity and information processing and to
    achieve cost savings for our customers. Our networks and
    information systems for large-scale, geographically dispersed
    enterprises offer advanced capabilities for collecting,
    processing, analyzing, interpreting, displaying, distributing,
    storing and retrieving data. We are a leader in satellite ground
    data processing and mission
    command-and-control
    (“C2”) systems. Our ground data processing systems
    consist of complex suites of hardware and software that receive
    sensor data from satellites, turning it into useable
    information. Our C2 systems feature COTS design and high levels
    of flexibility, are designed for government and commercial
    applications, and support single-satellite missions as well as
    some of the largest and most complex satellite fleets deployed.


 


    For example, we are the prime contractor under a
    15-year
    contract, awarded in July 2002 that is potentially worth
    $3.5 billion, for the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure
    (“FTI”) program to integrate, modernize, operate and
    maintain the communications infrastructure for the U.S. air
    traffic control system. FTI is a modern, secure and efficient
    network providing voice, data and video communications deployed
    at more than 4,500 FAA sites across the U.S., to enhance network
    efficiency, reliability and security and improve service while
    reducing operating costs. We designed and deployed the FTI
    network and it is fully operational. The FTI network consists of
    the Operations Network, the Mission Support Network, the
    Satellite Network and the Microwave Network. The supporting
    infrastructure includes the Network Operations Control Centers
    (“NOCCs”) and Security Operations Control Centers





    
    6



Table of Contents





    (“SOCCs”). The FTI program has completed its equipment
    build-out phase and is transitioning to its telecommunication
    services and maintenance phase. In addition to being the prime
    contractor and system architect for the FTI program, other FAA
    programs we have developed include: the Weather and Radar
    Processor, a weather system serving the en-route air traffic
    control environment; OASIS, which provided integrated weather
    briefing and flight planning capabilities for preflight weather
    briefings and in-flight updates; the Voice Switching and Control
    System, which provides the critical
    air-to-ground
    communications links between en-route aircraft and air traffic
    controllers throughout the continental United States; and the
    satellite-based Alaskan National Airspace System
    (“NAS”) Interfacility Communications System. In the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we were awarded a six-year
    contract, potentially worth $97 million, with the FAA for
    the Weather and Radar Maintenance and Sustainment
    Services II program, the scope of which includes software
    maintenance releases, depot support,
    on-site
    field support and engineering services at 22 operational FAA
    facilities in the U.S. Our acquisition in the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2009 of the Air Traffic Control business unit
    (“SolaCom ATC”) of SolaCom Technologies, Inc. provided
    us with an immediate ability to address additional segments of
    the air traffic control voice/data systems market and we believe
    further positioned us to support the FAA’s anticipated Next
    Generation Air Transportation System (“NextGen”)
    program.


 


    Under the U.S. Census Bureau’s Field Data Collection
    Automation (“FDCA”) program, awarded to us during
    fiscal 2006 in support of the 2010 census, we are the prime
    contractor responsible for integrating multiple automated
    systems. The FDCA program is nearing completion.


 


    In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we were awarded a ten-year
    contract, potentially worth $736 million, to provide a
    complete,
    end-to-end
    solution for NOAA’s Geostationary Operational Environmental
    Satellite — Series R Ground Segment (“GOES-R
    GS”) program, under which we will design, develop, deploy
    and operate the ground segment system, which will receive and
    process satellite data and generate and distribute weather data
    to more than 10,000 direct users. We will also provide the
    command and control of operational satellites under the GOES-R
    GS program. Following the close of the fourth quarter of fiscal
    2010, we were awarded a ten-year contract, potentially worth
    $130 million, to supply antennas and control systems for
    NOAA’s Geostationary Operational Environmental
    Satellite — Series R (“GOES-R”)
    program. The antennas will provide communications links for
    command, telemetry and sensor data, as well as the
    communications link to direct data users. The new antennas will
    operate with next-generation GOES-R satellites and will be
    compatible with existing GOES-N through GOES-P satellites.


 


    In our Healthcare Solutions business, we are continuing to focus
    on delivering standards-based interoperable healthcare solutions
    for government and commercial clients with security, privacy and
    patients in control of how their information is shared. For
    example, we are developing and integrating, under a contract
    from HHS, an
    open-source
    National Health Information Network (“NHIN”) CONNECT
    Gateway solution designed to enable seamless health information
    sharing among multiple Federal agencies and regional healthcare
    providers. We are developing a multi-hospital military health
    network with image-sharing capabilities under the DoD Military
    Health System global Healthcare Artifact and Image Management
    Solution (“HAIMS”) program. As described under
    “Item 1. Business — Recent
    Acquisitions” of this Report, we acquired Patriot during
    the second quarter of fiscal 2010. In the third quarter of
    fiscal 2010, we were awarded a three-year contract, potentially
    worth $72 million, from the VA for further improvements to
    the complex billing and collection activities of the VA, one of
    the largest healthcare delivery organizations in the world with
    21 networks and 170 medical centers nationwide. We were awarded
    the contract after successfully implementing a pilot project for
    the VA’s Mid-Atlantic region.


 


    In our Cyber Integrated Solutions business, we announced in
    fiscal 2010 that we are establishing the Harris Cyber
    Integration Center, which we believe can leverage our extensive
    cyber capabilities to address the evolving critical cyber
    infrastructure challenges of our government and commercial
    customers through a unique managed hosting service in a trusted
    environment. The Harris Cyber Integration Center will provide an
    integrated offering of infrastructure, managed security and
    tailored applications and services — all provided as a
    secure, trusted total solution. The center will feature a
    trusted technology infrastructure, including a tested and
    accredited environment, supply chain integrity and advanced
    persistent threat deterrence. Additionally, the center will
    offer industry-tailored applications and services on a tiered
    structure, providing both flexibility of service and superior
    value. The new Harris Cyber Integration Center will be located
    in a 140,000-square-foot facility in Harrisonburg, Virginia that
    we acquired in fiscal 2010. We expect the center to be fully
    operational in early calendar 2011. Also in fiscal 2010, we
    acquired SignaCert as described under “Item 1.
    Business — Recent Acquisitions” of this Report.
    SignaCert’s IT compliance solutions combine powerful change
    detection capabilities with custom and commercial software
    whitelists — lists of software that are deemed safe
    and approved for a customer’s network. As an industry
    leader in cyber security, we have been using
    state-of-the-art
    technology assessment techniques and architecture engineering
    for decades to define and operate secure networks supporting
    nationally critical programs. We currently support three of the
    nation’s largest secure, mission-critical networks:
    (i) the FTI program network, (ii) the global





    
    7



Table of Contents





    communications and information systems (“Patriot”)
    program network for the National Reconnaissance Office
    (“NRO”), and (iii) the Navy/Marine Corps Intranet
    (“NMCI”) program network. Our technology,
    countermeasures and monitoring capabilities safeguard vital
    information systems that support the critical missions of
    U.S. military, intelligence and Federal law enforcement
    customers.


 


    IT Services:  We provide
    end-to-end
    solutions in mission-critical IT transformation, managed
    solutions and information assurance. With over 3,000
    professionals performing to the highest industry standards at
    locations worldwide, we offer demonstrated past performance,
    proven technical expertise and innovative solutions in
    supporting large-scale IT programs that encompass the full
    technology lifecycle, including network design, deployment,
    operations and ongoing support. Our distributed workforce,
    present in all 50 states, and extensive experience in
    performance-based contracting and managed IT services, are key
    factors in delivering results to our defense, intelligence,
    homeland security, civil and commercial customers.


 


    Our IT transformation solutions use a holistic approach built on
    proven methodologies to design, implement and manage
    enterprise-wide architectures that align IT goals with
    customers’ business and mission goals. Our standards-based,
    repeatable IT transformation solutions unify, streamline and
    modernize unwieldy and disparate networks and systems across
    distributed environments, resulting in highly simplified,
    flexible, secure and manageable network infrastructures.


 


    Our managed services solutions include outsourced staffing and
    infrastructure, sustained by comprehensive operations and
    maintenance offerings, and are based on a flexible, scalable and
    repeatable service level agreement (“SLA”)
    performance-driven business model, frequently in a fixed-price
    environment. Our managed services solutions use an Information
    Technology Infrastructure Library (“ITIL”)-based
    best-practices approach for optimizing and supporting IT and
    communications environments, improving efficiencies, lowering
    operational costs and allowing customers to focus on mission
    performance.


 


    Our information assurance solutions include architecture
    analysis; attack warning and defense; identity management;
    security assessments; certification and accreditation process
    support; forensics analysis and vulnerability remediation;
    system anomaly monitoring, detection and management; and
    physical security countermeasures. Our information assurance
    solutions safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and
    availability of enterprise infrastructures, systems and critical
    business data over the full IT lifecycle, from infrastructure
    design to integration and testing to operations and maintenance.
    Those solutions meet widely used certification and accreditation
    standards, including the Federal Information Security Management
    Act (“FISMA”), the National Security Agency/Central
    Security Service Information System Certification and
    Accreditation Process (“NISCAP”) and the Department of
    Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
    Process (“DIACAP”).


 


    As examples, for NRO, which designs, builds and operates
    U.S. reconnaissance satellites, we provide operations,
    maintenance and support services for its Patriot program network
    in space and on the ground under a ten-year contract awarded in
    August 2004, potentially worth $1 billion, in support of
    NRO’s global analyst community. We are providing the
    U.S. Navy with comprehensive,
    end-to-end
    support for data, video and voice communications for over
    700,000 users as a Tier One subcontractor under the NMCI
    program awarded in October 2000 and potentially worth
    $1.1 billion. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we were
    awarded a Continuity of Service subcontract under the NMCI
    program to extend the support services we are providing and to
    add site support, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal
    2011. Under a five-year contract awarded by the
    U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs (the
    “State 6” program) in August 2009, potentially worth
    $200 million, we provide IT integration of installation,
    training, help desk, passport and configuration management
    services in support of more than 230 U.S. embassies and
    consulates around the world. We also provide system maintenance
    and engineering for the Defense Information Systems
    Agency’s (“DISA”) Crisis Management System.


 


    Additionally, under the Network and Space Operations and
    Maintenance (“NSOM”) program contract awarded to us in
    January 2008 for a six-month base period with six one-year
    options, potentially worth $410 million in aggregate, we
    provide operations and maintenance support at locations around
    the world for the communications functions for the U.S. Air
    Force 50th Space Wing’s Satellite Control Network
    (“AFSCN”), a global, continuously operational network
    of ground stations, operational control nodes and communications
    links that support launch and command and control of various
    space programs managed by the DoD and other national security
    space organizations.


 


    We also have key positions on a number of Indefinite
    Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts. We
    are a prime contractor under the U.S. Air Force Network
    Centric Solutions (“NETCENTS”) contract, which
    provides IT installation, integration and operations and
    maintenance services for networks and systems and offers IT
    products for networks. Our NETCENTS task orders include the
    Maxwell Air Force Base and the Overseas Navy Enterprise





    
    8



Table of Contents





    Network
    (“ONE-NET”).
    We are also a prime contractor under the U.S. Army ITES-2S
    contract, which provides IT installation, integration,
    infrastructure and operations and maintenance services for
    networks and systems. Our
    ITES-2S task
    orders include the Fort Bliss Department of Information
    Management (“DOIM”), the Army G-1 support and the
    Army.mil website and content support. In the second quarter of
    fiscal 2010, we were awarded an ITES-2S task order for the
    U.S. Southern Command (“USSOUTHCOM”) to migrate
    and consolidate the communications systems for nine USSOUTHCOM
    buildings into a new headquarters complex. We are one of
    59 awardees under the ALLIANT Government-Wide Acquisition
    Contract (“GWAC”) for the General Services
    Administration (“GSA”), which is an IT procurement
    contract broadly accessible to all U.S. Government agencies.


 


    In our Commercial Managed Services business, we are providing
    end-to-end
    solutions and services across our vertical commercial markets,
    including cyberspace, healthcare and “new media”
    broadcast markets. For example, we are providing Health First,
    Inc., a Florida-based healthcare provider, with managed services
    for back office infrastructure and networks. We also are
    collaborating with the Broadcast Communications segment to
    design and manage systems that manage, monitor and play out
    video content for a branded TV channel for the McDonald’s
    fast food chain and systems that combine IP television
    (“IPTV”) and digital signage and IT infrastructure to
    create an advanced media workflow for an in-arena network for
    the Orlando Magic’s new basketball arena, as described in
    more detail below under “Item 1. Business —
    Description of Business by Segment — Broadcast
    Communications” of this Report.


 


    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the Government Communications Systems segment decreased
    1 percent to $2,688 million in fiscal 2010 compared
    with $2,710 million in fiscal 2009, and was
    $2,478 million in fiscal 2008. Segment operating income
    increased 11 percent to $337.0 million in fiscal 2010
    compared with $302.8 million in fiscal 2009, and was
    $226.0 million in fiscal 2008. This segment contributed
    51 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2010 compared
    with 54 percent in fiscal 2009 and 54 percent in
    fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2010, approximately 74 percent of
    revenue for this segment was under direct contracts with
    customers and approximately 26 percent of revenue was under
    contracts with prime contractors, compared with approximately
    72 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers
    and approximately 28 percent of revenue under contracts
    with prime contractors in fiscal 2009 and approximately
    74 percent of revenue under direct contracts with customers
    and approximately 26 percent of revenue under contracts
    with prime contractors in fiscal 2008. Some of this
    segment’s more significant programs in fiscal 2010 included
    FTI, Patriot, NETCENTS, NMCI, FDCA,
    GOES-R,
    NSOM, F-35 and various classified programs. This segment’s
    largest program by revenue in a particular fiscal year
    represented approximately 9 percent of this segment’s
    revenue in fiscal 2010, compared with approximately
    13 percent in fiscal 2009 and approximately 9 percent
    in fiscal 2008. This segment’s 10 largest programs by
    revenue in a particular fiscal year represented approximately
    41 percent of this segment’s revenue in fiscal 2010,
    approximately 46 percent in fiscal 2009 and approximately
    45 percent in fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2010, this segment had
    a diverse portfolio of over 300 programs. Historically, that
    diversity has provided a stable backlog and reduced potential
    risks that come from reductions in funding or changes in
    customer priorities, and we expect that program diversity will
    continue to provide similar benefits in the future, although we
    can give no assurance. In fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal
    2008, U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, accounted for approximately
    96 percent of this segment’s total revenue. For a
    general description of our U.S. Government contracts and
    subcontracts, including a discussion of revenue generated from
    cost-reimbursement versus fixed-price contracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $1,238 million at July 2, 2010 compared with
    $1,146 million at July 3, 2009 and $836 million
    at June 27, 2008. Unfunded backlog for this segment was
    $3,276 million at July 2, 2010 compared with
    $4,002 million at July 3, 2009 and $3,760 million
    at June 27, 2008. We expect to fill approximately
    77 percent of this funded backlog during fiscal 2011, but
    we can give no assurance of such fulfillment. Additional
    information regarding funded and unfunded backlog is provided
    under “Item 1. Business — Funded and
    Unfunded Backlog” of this Report. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating
    to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see
    “Item 1. Business — Principal Customers;
    Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of
    this Report.


 



    Broadcast
    Communications





    Broadcast Communications offers hardware and software products,
    systems and services that provide interoperable workflow
    solutions for broadcast, cable, satellite and
    out-of-home
    networks worldwide. Those solutions are designed to receive
    content in any format and then manage, move and reformat that
    content for any delivery network to any viewing device.
    Broadcast Communications offers customers a comprehensive,
    single-source approach to delivering interoperable workflow
    capabilities and solutions spanning the entire broadcast value
    chain,





    
    9



Table of Contents





    including content creation, management, distribution and
    delivery. The Harris
    ONEtm

    solution for interoperable workflows that depend on IT-centric
    systems, integrated infrastructure and enterprise software
    brings together highly integrated and cost-effective products
    that enable advanced media workflows for emerging content
    delivery business models. Broadcast Communications is supporting
    customers as they upgrade media operations to digital and high
    definition (“HD”) services from analog and standard
    definition (“SD”) services and as they expand services
    for HD television (“HDTV”), IPTV,
    video-on-demand
    and interactive TV. This segment serves the global digital and
    analog media markets, providing workflow, infrastructure and
    networking products and solutions; media solutions; and
    television and radio transmission equipment and systems.


 


    Workflow, Infrastructure and Networking
    Solutions:  Our workflow, infrastructure and
    networking solutions offerings include SD and HD products and
    systems that enable media companies to streamline workflow from
    production through transmission. Our workflow solutions
    offerings enable customers to transition into an IT workflow by
    using servers to manage content flow, storage and other key
    facets of an increasingly file-based broadcast environment. We
    provide a comprehensive, next-generation portfolio of servers,
    signal processors, routers, master control and branding systems,
    network monitoring and control software, and test and
    measurement instruments that support content throughout the
    workflow application chain. We also provide advanced multi-image
    display processors and
    state-of-the-art
    broadcast graphics that change the way broadcasters view and
    manage content and provide broadcasters with options for
    presenting their brands. We also provide highly differentiated
    network access and multiplex platforms through our
    NetVXtm

    solution, which offers customized integrated management and
    distribution applications for any content across any connection
    to support television, government video and public safety
    applications. Our workflow, infrastructure and networking
    products also include our NEXIO
    AMPtm

    HD/SD video server advanced media platform, part of our
    NEXIOtm

    family of scalable, interoperable video servers;
    X85tm

    up/down/cross converter and frame synchronizer multiple
    application video and audio processing platform;
    Opto+tm

    fiber optic signal processing products offering 3 Gb/s
    electrical-to-optical
    and
    optical-to-electrical
    conversion capabilities;
    Platinumtm

    large router for mixed video and audio signal routing;
    IconMastertm

    digital master control system;
    Videotek®

    line of precision test and measurement instruments; compact,
    scalable Predator
    IItm

    and
    larger-format
    multi-image display processors, or “multiviewers;”
    Inscriber®

    line of graphics and titling products;
    Inveniotm

    Digital Asset Management solution; and Infocaster line of
    digital signage systems. We have also introduced a comprehensive
    end-to-end
    workflow for three-dimensional (“3D”) applications, as
    well as three gigabit per second (“3 Gb/s”) solutions
    for the 1080p HD format.


 


    Media:  Our media solutions offerings enable
    customers to manage their digital media workflow through a
    portfolio of software solutions for advertising, media
    management (traffic, billing and program scheduling), digital
    signage, broadband, digital asset management and play-out
    automation. Our media solutions products include the Harris
    media software suite and our OSi
    Traffictm

    software. The Harris media software suite is a unified system of
    interoperable broadcast and media applications based on open
    standards, with a network-, content- and
    service-agnostic
    approach, which supports customers’ core services and
    business operations, makes data exchange and workflow more
    efficient and facilitates adding services that can lead to new
    revenue streams. Our products also include our
    Velocitytm

    family of editing controllers that employ open standards to
    accelerate
    time-to-air
    and reduce the costs associated with content acquisition,
    production, distribution and media management; and
    Punctuatetm

    out-of-home
    advertising and digital signage traffic, scheduling and ad sales
    advanced software solution.


 


    Transmission Systems:  We develop, manufacture
    and supply digital and analog television and radio transmission
    systems for delivery of rich media over wireless broadcast
    terrestrial networks on a worldwide basis, including mobile TV
    applications. We can provide single products or
    end-to-end
    systems, including nationwide networks with hundreds of
    transmitters. Our television and radio transmission systems
    solutions are scalable to meet the needs of broadcasters of all
    sizes. We are a leader in television’s transition from
    analog to digital technology and in technology for the
    U.S. digital standard known as “ATSC” and the
    European digital standard “DVB-T.” In fiscal 2007, we
    introduced with LG Electronics Inc. the jointly developed Mobile
    Handheld in-band mobile digital TV system (“M/H”), a
    new technology capable of providing digital TV (“DTV”)
    signals and extending
    over-the-air
    broadcast TV signals beyond customary TV viewing at home to
    mobile, pedestrian and other handheld devices (such as mobile
    phones or laptop computers). Our products also include our
    Maxivatm

    line of UHF multimedia transmitters, comprised of our Maxiva ULX
    Series of liquid-cooled transmitters for high-power UHF
    multimedia broadcasters and our Maxiva UAX Series of air-cooled,
    solid-state transmitters for low-power UHF transmission.


 


    We are also a leader in the transition from analog to digital
    radio. Our product offerings address the U.S. digital
    standard called “IBOC” (In-Band/On-Channel), which is
    referred to in the market as “HD
    Radio®,”

    as well as international digital standards including
    “DAB” and “DRM.” Our radio transmission
    products include our
    Intraplex®

    line of audio transport products, including
    studio-to-transmitter
    links, and our
    FLEXSTARtm

    family, which provides a bandwidth-efficient bitstream so
    broadcasters can offer supplemental audio and data capability





    
    10



Table of Contents





    along with the main program stream, offering listeners 5.1
    surround sound, on-demand traffic, weather and sports reports,
    store-and-play
    capabilities and real-time navigation.


 


    This segment also is focused on three principal growth areas.
    First, in many international markets, the transition from analog
    to digital broadcasting is just beginning, which we believe will
    result in growing demand for both digital transmission systems
    and related infrastructure. Second, in the U.S. Government
    market for full-motion video systems, we believe we have unique
    technology capabilities. Our Full-Motion Video Asset Management
    Engine
    (“FAMEtm”)

    solution provides our U.S. Government customers with
    greater visibility into increasing amounts of digital ISR
    information, including real-time and archived video, such as
    that collected from manned and unmanned aircraft and
    ground-based sensors. FAME is a COTS-based solution developed
    based on our digital asset management technologies, input from
    intelligence analysts and our Government Communications Systems
    segment’s image processing, system integration and security
    capabilities. Third, in digital
    out-of-home
    advertising, our solutions enable advertisers to reach consumers
    on the move, and we believe new systems will be increasingly
    deployed to deliver rich media content in live sports and
    entertainment venues and in retail establishments.


 


    Revenue, Operating Income and Backlog:  Revenue
    for the Broadcast Communications segment decreased
    17 percent to $486 million in fiscal 2010 compared
    with $584 million in fiscal 2009, and was $643 million
    in fiscal 2008. The segment had an operating loss of
    $30.8 million in fiscal 2010 compared with an operating
    loss of $238.0 million in fiscal 2009, which included a
    $255.5 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill
    and other long-lived assets, and operating income of
    $33.8 million in fiscal 2008. The Broadcast Communications
    segment contributed 9 percent of our total revenue in
    fiscal 2010 compared with 11 percent in fiscal 2009 and
    14 percent in fiscal 2008. The percentage of this
    segment’s revenue that was derived outside of the United
    States was approximately 56 percent in fiscal 2010 compared
    with 47 percent in fiscal 2009 and 47 percent in
    fiscal 2008. No single customer accounted for more than
    3 percent of fiscal 2010 revenue for the Broadcast
    Communications segment.


 


    In general, this segment’s domestic products are sold and
    serviced directly to customers through its sales organization
    and through established distribution channels. Internationally,
    this segment markets and sells its products and services through
    regional sales offices and established distribution channels.
    See “Item 1. Business — International
    Business” of this Report.


 


    The funded backlog of unfilled orders for this segment was
    $260 million at July 2, 2010 compared with
    $247 million at July 3, 2009 and $305 million at
    June 27, 2008. We expect to fill approximately
    45 percent of this backlog during fiscal 2011, but we can
    give no assurance of such fulfillment. For a discussion of
    certain risks affecting this segment, see “Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Report.


 



    International
    Business





    Revenue from products exported from the United States (including
    foreign military sales) or manufactured abroad was
    $724.6 million (14 percent of our total revenue) in
    fiscal 2010 compared with $1,016.6 million (20 percent
    of our total revenue) in fiscal 2009 and $759.7 million
    (17 percent of our total revenue) in fiscal 2008.
    Essentially all of the international sales are derived from the
    RF Communications and Broadcast Communications segments. Direct
    export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars,
    whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally
    denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. Financial
    information regarding our domestic and international operations
    is contained in Note 25: Business Segments in the
    Notes and is incorporated herein by reference.


 


    Our principal international manufacturing facilities are located
    in Canada and the United Kingdom. The majority of our
    international marketing activities are conducted through
    subsidiaries which operate in Canada, Europe, Central and South
    America, and Asia. We have also established international
    marketing organizations and several regional sales offices.
    Reference is made to Exhibit 21 “Subsidiaries of the
    Registrant” of this Report for further information
    regarding our international subsidiaries.


 


    We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers,
    distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and
    sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically
    and internationally. These independent representatives may buy
    for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or
    governmental customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the
    ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or
    established by the independent representative and may be above
    or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally
    receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those
    prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer.
    Revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2010 represented
    6 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    35 percent of our international revenue, compared with
    revenue from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2009 representing
    11 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    55 percent of our international revenue, and revenue





    
    11



Table of Contents





    from indirect sales channels in fiscal 2008 representing
    7 percent of our total revenue and approximately
    44 percent of our international revenue.


 


    Fiscal 2010 international revenue came from a large number of
    countries, and no such single country accounted for more than
    3 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are
    paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried either
    on an open account or installment note basis. Advance payments,
    progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or
    upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred.
    Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to
    provide performance guarantees. In order to stay competitive in
    international markets, we also sometimes enter into recourse and
    vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain
    customers.


 


    The particular economic, social and political conditions for
    business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those
    encountered by domestic businesses. Our management believes that
    the overall business risk for the international business as a
    whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic
    operations as a whole. A description of the types of risks to
    which we are subject in international business is contained in
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.
    Nevertheless, in the opinion of our management, these risks are
    partially mitigated by the diversification of the international
    business and the protection provided by letters of credit and
    advance payments.


 



    Competition





    We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to
    technological advances. Although successful product and systems
    development is not necessarily dependent on substantial
    financial resources, many of our competitors in each of our
    businesses are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels
    of expenditures for research and development. In each of our
    businesses we concentrate on the market opportunities that our
    management believes are compatible with our resources, overall
    technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive
    factors in these businesses are product quality and reliability;
    technological capabilities; service; past performance; ability
    to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability
    to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party
    sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness.
    Within the IT services market, there is intense competition
    among many companies. The ability to compete in the IT services
    market depends on a number of factors, including the capability
    to deploy skilled professionals at competitive prices across the
    diverse spectrum of the IT services market.


 


    In the RF Communications segment, principal competitors include
    European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company N.V.
    (“EADS”), General Dynamics, ITT Industries, Motorola,
    Raytheon, Rohde & Schwarz, Selex, Tadiran and Thales.


 


    In the Government Communications Systems segment, principal
    competitors include Boeing, CACI, General Dynamics, GTSI, L-3
    Communications, Lockheed Martin, ManTech, Northrop Grumman,
    Raytheon, RigNet, Rockwell Collins, Schlumberger Global
    Connectivity Services, SRA and SAIC. Consolidation among
    U.S. defense and aerospace companies has resulted in a
    reduction in the number of principal prime contractors. As a
    result of this consolidation, we frequently “partner”
    or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with
    companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other
    programs.


 


    In the Broadcast Communications segment, principal competitors
    include Avid, Broadcast Electronics, Chyron, Evertz, EVS,
    Harmonic, Miranda, Nautel, NEC, Omnibus, Orad, Open Text, Pilat
    Media, Rohde & Schwarz, Sony Broadcast, Technicolor,
    Tektronix/Danaher, Thomson, Vizrt and Wide Orbit, as well as
    other smaller companies and divisions of large companies.


 



    Principal
    Customers; Government Contracts





    Sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD and
    intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign military
    sales through the U.S. Government, whether directly or
    through prime contractors, were 76 percent of our total
    revenue in fiscal 2010 compared with 79 percent in both
    fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. No other customer accounted for
    more than 2 percent of our total revenue in fiscal 2010.
    Additional information regarding customers for each of our
    segments is provided under “Item 1.
    Business — Description of Business by Segment” of
    this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly
    derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors
    to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales of the
    Government Communications Systems segment are made directly or
    indirectly to the U.S. Government under contracts or
    subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses
    providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for
    termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or
    for default based upon performance.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    These U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include
    both cost-reimbursement and fixed-price contracts. Our
    cost-reimbursement contracts provide for the reimbursement of
    allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. Our
    cost-reimbursement contracts fall into three basic types:
    (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for the
    payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of
    performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which
    provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified
    limits, based upon actual results compared with contractual
    targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and
    delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts,
    which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the
    discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the
    contractor against pre-established performance criteria. Under
    cost-reimbursement contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for
    allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on
    contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially
    or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or
    regulation. Examples are certain merger and acquisition costs,
    lobbying costs, charitable contributions and certain litigation
    defense costs.


 


    Our fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts
    or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under firm fixed-price
    contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a
    fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and
    carry the burden of cost overruns. Under fixed-price incentive
    contracts, we share with the U.S. Government both savings
    accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs as
    well as costs incurred in excess of targets up to a negotiated
    ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost), but carry
    the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling
    price. Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may
    also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified
    performance objectives are met. Under firm fixed-price and
    fixed-price incentive contracts, we usually receive either
    milestone payments equaling 100 percent of the contract
    price or monthly progress payments from the U.S. Government
    in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the
    contract. The remaining amounts, including profits or incentive
    fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items
    and deliverables under the contract. Fixed-price contracts
    generally have higher profit margins than cost-reimbursement
    contracts. Production contracts are mainly fixed-price
    contracts, and development contracts are generally
    cost-reimbursement contracts.


 


    In fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, approximately
    38 percent, 36 percent and 35 percent,
    respectively, of the total combined revenue of our RF
    Communications and Government Communications Systems segments
    was from fixed-price contracts. GWAC and IDIQ contracts, which
    can include task orders for each contract type, require us to
    compete both for the initial contract and then for individual
    task or delivery orders under such contracts.


 


    As stated above, U.S. Government contracts are terminable
    for the convenience of the U.S. Government, as well as for
    default based on performance. Companies supplying goods and
    services to the U.S. Government are dependent on
    Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of
    funds and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government
    policies resulting from various military, political and
    international developments. Long-term government contracts and
    related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for
    subsequent performance periods become unavailable. Under
    contracts terminable for the convenience of the
    U.S. Government, a contractor is entitled to receive
    payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the
    proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done.
    Contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that
    the U.S. Government pays only for the work it has accepted
    and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost
    of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages.
    In many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the
    complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and
    difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on
    developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Under
    many U.S. Government contracts, we are required to maintain
    facility and personnel security clearances complying with DoD
    and other Federal agency requirements. For further discussion of
    risks relating to U.S. Government contracts, see
    “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3.
    Legal Proceedings” of this Report.


 



    Funded
    and Unfunded Backlog





    Our total company-wide funded and unfunded backlog was
    approximately $6,526 million at July 2, 2010 compared
    with approximately $6,317 million at July 3, 2009 and
    $5,883 million at June 27, 2008. The funded portion of
    this backlog was approximately $3,250 million at
    July 2, 2010 compared with approximately
    $2,315 million at July 3, 2009 and $2,123 million
    at June 27, 2008. The determination of backlog involves
    substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer
    requirements contracts and development and production contracts
    of a cost-reimbursement or incentive nature.


 


    In fiscal 2010, we changed how we define funded backlog to be
    more consistent with industry practices. This change of
    methodology, which we applied retrospectively, had no impact on
    our total backlog, but did result in a reclassification of
    certain amounts of backlog from unfunded backlog to funded
    backlog for prior periods presented in this Report. We now
    define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and
    services for which funding





    
    13



Table of Contents





    has been authorized and, in the case of U.S. Government
    agencies, appropriated. We define unfunded backlog as primarily
    unfilled firm contract value for which funding has not yet been
    authorized or, in the case of U.S. Government agencies,
    appropriated, including the value of contract options in cases
    of material contracts that have options we believe are probable
    of being exercised. We do not include potential task or delivery
    orders under IDIQ contracts in our backlog. In fiscal 2011, we
    expect to fill approximately 75 percent of our total funded
    backlog as of July 2, 2010. However, we can give no
    assurance of such fulfillment or that our funded backlog will
    become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is
    subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are
    beyond our control. Additional information with regard to the
    backlog of each of our segments is provided under
    “Item 1. Business — Description of Business
    by Segment” of this Report.


 



    Research,
    Development and Engineering





    Research, development and engineering expenditures totaled
    approximately $1,047 million in fiscal 2010,
    $1,003 million in fiscal 2009 and $980 million in
    fiscal 2008. Company-sponsored research and product development
    costs, which included research and development for commercial
    products and independent research and development related to
    government products and services, as well as concept formulation
    studies and bid and proposal efforts, were approximately
    $326 million in fiscal 2010, $244 million in fiscal
    2009 and $248 million in fiscal 2008. A portion of our
    independent research and development costs are allocated among
    contracts and programs in process under U.S. Government
    contractual arrangements. Company-sponsored research and product
    development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense
    when incurred. The portion of total research, development and
    engineering expenditures that was not company-sponsored was
    funded by the U.S. Government and is included in our
    revenue. Customer-sponsored research and development was
    $721 million in fiscal 2010, $759 million in fiscal
    2009 and $732 million in fiscal 2008. Company-sponsored
    research is directed to the development of new products and to
    building technological capability in selected communications and
    electronic systems markets. U.S. Government-funded research
    helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. All of
    our segments maintain their own engineering and new product
    development departments, with scientific assistance provided by
    advanced-technology departments. As of July 2, 2010, we
    employed approximately 7,000 engineers and scientists and are
    continuing efforts to make the technologies developed in any of
    our business segments available for all other business segments.


 



    Patents
    and Other Intellectual Property





    We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the
    aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large and
    valuable portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how,
    confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other
    intellectual property. We also license intellectual property to
    and from third parties. As of July 2, 2010, we held
    approximately 1,075 U.S. patents and 645 foreign patents,
    and had approximately 550 U.S. patent applications pending
    and 1,260 foreign patent applications pending. Unpatented
    research, development and engineering skills also make an
    important contribution to our business. While our intellectual
    property rights in the aggregate are important to our business
    and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider
    our business or any business segment to be materially dependent
    upon any single patent, license or other intellectual property
    right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other
    intellectual property rights. We are engaged in a proactive
    patent licensing program and have entered into a number of
    licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate
    royalty income. Although existing license agreements have
    generated income in past years and may do so in the future,
    there can be no assurances we will enter into additional
    income-producing license agreements. From time to time we engage
    in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual
    property. Any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks,
    copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged,
    invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive
    advantages. For further discussion of risks relating to
    intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors” of this Report. With regard to patents relating to
    our Government Communications Systems segment, the
    U.S. Government often has an irrevocable, non-exclusive,
    royalty-free license, pursuant to which the U.S. Government
    may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by
    such patents. Pursuant to similar arrangements, the
    U.S. Government may consent to our use of inventions
    covered by patents owned by other persons. Numerous trademarks
    used on or in connection with our products are also considered
    to be a valuable asset.


 



    Environmental
    and Other Regulations





    Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic
    and international laws and regulations designed to protect the
    environment, particularly with regard to wastes and emissions.
    The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common
    within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve.
    We believe that we have complied with these requirements and
    that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.
    Based upon currently available information, we do not expect





    
    14



Table of Contents





    expenditures over the next several years to protect the
    environment and to comply with current environmental laws and
    regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending
    climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords,
    to have a material impact on our competitive position or
    financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such
    expenditures will not exceed current expectations. If future
    treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent
    requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may
    be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures. We
    have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control
    equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste
    minimization and prevention goals. We did not spend material
    amounts on environmental capital projects in fiscal 2010, fiscal
    2009 or fiscal 2008. A portion of our environmental expenditures
    relates to discontinued operations for which we have retained
    certain environmental liabilities. We currently expect that
    amounts to be spent for environmental-related capital projects
    will not be material in fiscal 2011. These amounts may increase
    in future years. Additional information regarding environmental
    and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal
    Proceedings” of this Report and in Note 1:
    Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes.


 


    Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental
    regulation in a number of jurisdictions. Equipment produced by
    our Broadcast Communications segment, in particular, is subject
    to domestic and international requirements requiring
    end-of-life
    management
    and/or
    restricting materials in products delivered to customers,
    including the European Union’s Directive 2002/96/EC on
    Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and
    Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of certain
    Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
    (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted
    similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not
    applicable to most equipment produced by our Government
    Communications Systems and RF Communications segments. We
    believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations,
    where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold
    into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and
    regulations with respect to our future products.


 


    Broadcast and wireless communications (whether TV, radio,
    satellite or telecommunications) are also subject to
    governmental regulation. Equipment produced by our Broadcast
    Communications and RF Communications segments, in particular, is
    subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid
    interference among users of radio and television frequencies and
    to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment.
    Additionally, our managed satellite communications services
    business holds licenses for very small aperture terminals
    (“VSATs”) and satellite earth stations, which
    authorize operation of networks and teleports. We are also
    required to comply with technical operating and licensing
    requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and
    operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and
    regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products
    and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and
    regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and
    services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum
    also could impact our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Raw
    Materials and Supplies





    Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well
    as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use
    numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials (such as
    electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and
    plastics) needed for our operations and for our products. We are
    dependent upon suppliers and subcontractors for a large number
    of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers
    and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials
    restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications
    and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent upon
    one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature
    of a particular item or because of local content preference
    requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project.
    While we have been affected by financial and performance issues
    of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been
    materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw
    materials or products. On occasion, we have experienced
    component shortages from vendors as a result of the RoHS
    environmental regulations in the European Union or similar
    regulations in other jurisdictions. These regulations may cause
    a spike in demand for certain electronic components (such as
    lead-free components), resulting in
    industry-wide
    supply chain shortages. To date, these component shortages have
    not had a material adverse effect on our business. For further
    discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers,
    see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.


 



    Seasonality





    We do not consider any material portion of our business to be
    seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our
    revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of
    contract awards and the timing and availability of
    U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product
    deliveries and customer acceptance.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    Employees





    We employed approximately 15,800 employees at the end of
    fiscal 2010 compared with approximately 15,400 employees at
    the end of fiscal 2009. Approximately 91 percent of our
    employees as of the end of fiscal 2010 were located in the
    United States. A significant number of employees in our
    Government Communications Systems segment possess a
    U.S. Government security clearance. We also utilize a
    number of independent contractors. None of our employees in the
    United States is represented by a labor union. In certain
    international subsidiaries, our employees are represented by
    workers’ councils or statutory labor unions. In general, we
    believe that our relations with our employees are good.


 



    Website
    Access to Harris Reports; Available Information





    General.  We maintain an Internet website at
    http://www.harris.com.
    Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available
    free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable
    after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished
    to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
    We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form
    free of charge upon request. We also make available free of
    charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and
    proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon
    are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other
    periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All
    reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available
    free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and
    retrieval (“EDGAR”) system available through the
    SEC’s website at
    http://www.sec.gov.


 


    Additional information relating to our businesses, including our
    operating segments, is set forth in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” of this Report.


 


    Corporate Governance Principles and Committee
    Charters.  We previously adopted Corporate
    Governance Principles, which are available on the Corporate
    Governance section of our website at
    www.harris.com/harris/cg/. In addition, the charters of
    each of the committees of our Board, namely, the Audit
    Committee, Business Conduct and Corporate Responsibility
    Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee and
    Management Development and Compensation Committee, are also
    available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A
    copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon
    written request to our Secretary at Harris Corporation,
    1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919.


 


    Certifications.  We have filed with the SEC the
    certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In
    addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief
    Executive Officer to the New York Stock Exchange
    (“NYSE”) in November 2009 in accordance with the
    NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification
    that he was not aware of any violation by Harris of the
    NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS.





 


    We have described many of the trends and other factors that we
    believe could impact our business and future results in
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this
    Report. In addition, our business, operating results, cash flows
    and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially
    adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties,
    including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of
    which could cause our actual results to vary materially from
    recent results or our anticipated future results.


 



    We
    depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of
    our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in
    U.S. Government funding priorities could have adverse
    consequences on our future business.





    We are highly dependent on sales to U.S. Government
    customers. The percentage of our net revenue that was derived
    from sales to U.S. Government customers, including the DoD
    and intelligence and civilian agencies, as well as foreign
    military sales through the U.S. Government, whether
    directly or through prime contractors, was approximately
    76 percent in fiscal 2010 and 79 percent in both
    fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. Therefore, any significant
    disruption or deterioration of our relationship with the
    U.S. Government would significantly reduce our revenue. Our
    U.S. Government programs must compete with programs managed
    by other government contractors for limited resources and for
    uncertain levels of funding. Our competitors continuously engage
    in efforts to expand their business relationships with the
    U.S. Government and will continue these efforts in the
    future, and the U.S. Government may choose to use other
    contractors. We expect that a majority of the business that we
    seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through
    competitive bidding. The U.S. Government has increasingly
    relied on certain types of contracts that are subject to a
    competitive bidding process, including IDIQ, GWAC, GSA Schedule





    
    16



Table of Contents





    and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater
    competition and increased pricing pressure. We operate in highly
    competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive
    or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing
    capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not be able to
    continue to win competitively awarded contracts or to obtain
    task orders under multi-award contracts. Further, the
    competitive bidding process involves significant cost and
    managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that
    may not be awarded to us, and the risk that we may fail to
    accurately estimate the resources and costs required to fulfill
    any contract awarded to us. Following any contract award, we may
    experience significant expense or delay, contract modification
    or contract rescission as a result of our competitors protesting
    or challenging contracts awarded to us in competitive bidding.
    We also compete with the U.S. Government’s own
    capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers.
    Budget decisions made by the U.S. Government are outside of
    our control and have long-term consequences for our business. A
    shift in U.S. Government spending priorities or an increase
    in non-procurement spending at the expense of our programs (for
    example, through “in-sourcing”), or a reduction in
    total U.S. Government spending, could have material adverse
    consequences on our future business.


 



    We
    depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often
    are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and
    heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to
    fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact
    on our business.





    Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be
    implemented by the award of many different individual contracts
    and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs
    is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year
    contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with
    major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a
    fiscal year basis. Procurement funds are typically made
    available for obligation over the course of three years.
    Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding
    initially, and additional funds are obligated only as Congress
    authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding
    for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of
    anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which
    could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the
    termination of a program or the failure to commit additional
    funds to a program that already has been started could result in
    lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business.


 


    Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. Such
    audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any
    costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract
    will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must
    be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs
    we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know
    the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be
    required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon
    completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit
    findings could also result in termination of a contract,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspension or prohibition from doing business with the
    U.S. Government.


 


    In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally contain
    provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without
    prior notice at the U.S. Government’s convenience upon
    the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time
    of termination. We can give no assurance that one or more of our
    U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under
    these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we
    would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or
    backlog lost as a result of any termination of our
    U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of
    our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under
    our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more
    large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition.


 


    Our government business also is subject to specific procurement
    regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other
    requirements. These requirements, although customary in
    U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and
    compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future,
    thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect
    on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these
    regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or
    debarment from U.S. Government contracting or
    subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for
    debarment are violations of various laws, including those
    related to procurement integrity, export control,
    U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices,
    protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper
    recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a
    U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any
    of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and
    could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for
    future U.S. Government contracts.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    We
    enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses
    in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in
    inflation.





    We have a number of firm fixed-price contracts. In fiscal 2010
    and fiscal 2009, approximately 38 percent and
    36 percent, respectively, of the total combined revenue of
    our RF Communications and Government Communications Systems
    segments was from fixed-price contracts. These contracts allow
    us to benefit from cost savings, but they carry the risk of
    potential cost overruns because we assume all of the cost
    burden. If our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose
    money on these contracts. U.S. Government contracts can
    expose us to potentially large losses because the
    U.S. Government can hold us responsible for completing a
    project or, in certain circumstances, paying the entire cost of
    its replacement by another provider regardless of the size or
    foreseeability of any cost overruns that occur over the life of
    the contract. Because many of these contracts involve new
    technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen
    events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the
    price of raw materials, problems with our suppliers and cost
    overruns, can result in the contractual price becoming less
    favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. The United
    States also may experience a significant increase in inflation.
    A significant increase in inflation rates could have a
    significant adverse impact on the profitability of these
    contracts. Furthermore, if we do not meet contract deadlines or
    specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less
    favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated
    damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its
    right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have
    provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we
    fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not
    realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are
    dependent on our ability to maximize our earnings from our
    contracts. Cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our
    financial results. The potential impact of such risk on our
    financial results would increase if the mix of our contracts and
    programs shifted toward a greater percentage of firm fixed-price
    contracts.


 



    We
    derive a significant portion of our revenue from international
    operations and are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.





    We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United
    States. In fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, revenue
    from products exported from the U.S. or manufactured abroad
    was 14 percent, 20 percent and 17 percent,
    respectively, of our total revenue. Approximately
    41 percent of our international business in fiscal 2010 was
    transacted in local currency. Losses resulting from currency
    rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. We expect
    that international revenue will continue to account for a
    significant portion of our total revenue. Also, a significant
    portion of our international revenue is in less-developed
    countries. We are subject to risks of doing business
    internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and
    currency revaluations;








     
        • 

    
    The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments
    relating to investments and operations, as well as
    U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies
    abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of
    tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade
    restrictions;








     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of
    funding, credit or guarantees;








     
        • 

    
    The complexity and necessity of using international dealers,
    distributors, sales representatives and consultants;








     
        • 

    
    The difficulty of managing an organization doing business in
    many countries;








     
        • 

    
    Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as
    well as unforeseen changes in export regulations;








     
        • 

    
    Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for
    onerous contract clauses; and








     
        • 

    
    Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies,
    political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of
    international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation.





 



    Our
    reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the
    improper conduct of our employees, agents or business
    partners.





    We have implemented extensive compliance controls, policies and
    procedures designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from
    being committed by our employees, agents or business partners
    that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we
    operate, including laws governing payments to government
    officials (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), and to
    detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. We cannot
    ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will
    prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. If not
    prevented, such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to
    civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary





    
    18



Table of Contents





    penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our
    ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our
    reputation.


 



    We may
    not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to
    conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent
    proposed sales to certain foreign governments.





    We must first obtain export and other licenses and
    authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before
    we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies
    outside of the United States. For example, the
    U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least
    15-60 days,
    depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to
    authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to
    foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action
    to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we
    will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary
    licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or
    delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability
    to sell products or technologies outside of the United States
    could negatively impact our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Our
    future success will depend on our ability to develop new
    products and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our
    current and future markets.





    Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized
    by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry
    standards. Accordingly, our performance depends on a number of
    factors, including our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Identify emerging technological trends in our current and target
    markets;








     
        • 

    
    Develop and maintain competitive products;








     
        • 

    
    Enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or
    other features that differentiate our products from those of our
    competitors; and








     
        • 

    
    Develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to
    market quickly.





 


    We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future,
    we will need to continue to develop new products and
    technologies, requiring the investment of significant financial
    resources. The need to make these expenditures could divert our
    attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be
    sure that these expenditures ultimately will lead to the timely
    development of new products or technologies. Due to the design
    complexity of some of our products and technologies, we may
    experience delays in completing development and introducing new
    products or technologies in the future. Any delays could result
    in increased costs of development or redirect resources from
    other projects. In addition, we cannot provide assurances that
    the markets for our products or technologies will develop as we
    currently anticipate. The failure of our products or
    technologies to gain market acceptance could significantly
    reduce our revenue and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot
    be sure that our competitors will not develop competing products
    or technologies that gain market acceptance in advance of our
    products or technologies, or that our competitors will not
    develop new products or technologies that cause our existing
    products or technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete,
    which could adversely affect our results of operations. The
    future direction of the domestic and global economies, including
    its impact on customer demand, also will have a significant
    impact on our overall performance.


 



    We
    participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain
    economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth
    in our markets and, as a result, future income and
    expenditures.





    We participate in U.S. and international markets that are
    subject to uncertain economic conditions. As a result, it is
    difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in
    which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting
    and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the
    markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of future
    income and expenditures even more difficult. As a result, we may
    make significant investments and expenditures but never realize
    the anticipated benefits.


 



    We
    cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events,
    but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate,
    our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our
    profitability.





    Ongoing instability and current conflicts in the Middle East and
    Asia and the potential for further conflicts and future
    terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events
    throughout the world have created economic and political
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operations and profitability. These matters cause
    uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance markets
    and may increase significantly the political, economic and
    social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate.
    These matters also have caused the premiums charged for our
    insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases
    or some coverages to be unavailable altogether.




    
    19



Table of Contents






    We
    have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that
    involve significant risks and uncertainties.





    We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic
    acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
    These risks and uncertainties include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions,
    including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or
    fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other
    acquisition risks;








     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and
    operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the
    risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other
    problems associated with integration;








     
        • 

    
    Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and
    other benefits expected from acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the
    strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be
    successful in those markets;








     
        • 

    
    Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the
    limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the
    financial resources of any indemnifying parties;








     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of key employees of the acquired
    businesses; and








     
        • 

    
    Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our
    existing operations.





 



    Disputes
    with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors
    to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our
    components, parts or services, could cause our products or
    services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or
    unsatisfactory manner.





    On many of our contracts, we engage subcontractors. We may have
    disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding
    the quality and timeliness of work performed by the
    subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontract, our
    failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders
    under a subcontract, our hiring of the personnel of a
    subcontractor or vice versa or the subcontractor’s failure
    to comply with applicable law. In addition, there are certain
    parts, components and services for many of our products and
    services which we source from other manufacturers or vendors.
    Some of our suppliers, from time to time, experience financial
    and operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to
    supply the materials, components, subsystems and services that
    we require. Any inability to develop alternative sources of
    supply on a cost-effective and timely basis could materially
    impair our ability to manufacture and deliver products and
    services to our customers. We can give no assurances that we
    will be free from disputes with our subcontractors, material
    supply problems or component, subsystems or services problems in
    the future. Also, our subcontractors and other suppliers may not
    be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials,
    components, subsystems and services they supply, which might
    result in greater product returns, service problems and warranty
    claims and could harm our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe
    upon our intellectual property rights.





    Many of the markets we serve are characterized by vigorous
    protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which
    often has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be
    infringing or to have infringed directly or indirectly upon
    those intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual
    property infringement might also require us to enter into costly
    royalty or license agreements. Moreover, we may not be able to
    obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us,
    or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or
    injunctions against development and sale of certain of our
    products. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary
    technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights,
    trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions
    and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our
    intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully protect
    and enforce these rights, our competitive position could suffer.
    Our pending patent and trademark registration applications may
    not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or
    scope of our patents or trademark registrations. In addition,
    our patents may not provide us a significant competitive
    advantage. We may be required to spend significant resources to
    monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We may not
    be able to detect infringement and our competitive position may
    be harmed before we do so. In addition, competitors may design
    around our technology or develop competing technologies.


 



    The
    outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is
    unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.





    We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and, from
    time to time, are involved in a number of arbitrations. These
    actions may divert financial and management resources that would
    otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can
    be given that the results of these or new matters will be
    favorable to us. An





    
    20



Table of Contents





    adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    We
    face certain significant risk exposures and potential
    liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or
    indemnity.





    We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products
    and services we provide. A significant portion of our business
    relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced
    defense and technology systems and products. New technologies
    associated with these systems and products may be untested or
    unproven. Components of certain of the defense systems and
    products we develop are inherently dangerous. Failures of
    satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems,
    homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential
    to cause loss of life and extensive property damage. In most
    circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the
    U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain
    risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate
    to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear
    substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not
    possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational
    risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an
    incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity and our
    insurance coverage could harm our financial condition, operating
    results and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for
    which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively
    affect our standing among our customers and the public, thereby
    making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and
    could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate
    insurance in the future.


 



    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.





    Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a
    number of factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;








     
        • 

    
    Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;








     
        • 

    
    Increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes,
    including write-offs of acquired in-process research and
    development and impairment of goodwill in connection with
    acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in available tax credits;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in share-based compensation expense;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;








     
        • 

    
    Changes in domestic or international tax laws or the
    interpretation of such tax laws; and








     
        • 

    
    The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities.





 


    Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    adversely impact our results of operations for future periods.


 



    The
    effects of the recent recession in the United States and general
    downturn in the global economy could have an adverse impact on
    our business, operating results or financial
    condition.





    The United States economy has recently experienced a recession
    and there has been a general downturn in the global economy.
    Although governments worldwide, including the
    U.S. Government, have initiated sweeping economic plans, we
    are unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these
    economic events. The continuing effects of the recent recession
    or a worsening of economic conditions could have an adverse
    impact on our business, operating results or financial condition
    in a number of ways. Possible effects of these economic events
    include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The U.S. Government could reprioritize its spending away
    from the government programs in which we participate;








     
        • 

    
    We may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash
    flows as a result of reduced orders, payment delays or other
    factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and
    prospective customers (including U.S. state and local
    governments);








     
        • 

    
    We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other
    problems associated with financial constraints faced by our
    suppliers and subcontractors; and








     
        • 

    
    We may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with
    future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit
    facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing
    our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or
    financing activities.





 



    We
    have significant operations in Florida and other locations that
    could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a
    natural disaster or other significant disruption.





    Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our
    Government Communications Systems segment are located in
    Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Our worldwide
    operations could be subject to natural





    
    21



Table of Contents





    disasters or other significant disruptions, including
    hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires,
    water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical
    epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts,
    telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and
    manmade disasters or disruptions. In the event of such a natural
    disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or
    interruptions to our operations or the operations of our
    suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers;
    destruction of facilities;
    and/or loss
    of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and
    expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    We
    could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber
    attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant
    disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we
    operate for certain of our customers.





    We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach,
    whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the
    Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to
    e-mails,
    persons inside our organization, or with persons with access to
    systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption
    of our IT networks and related systems. We face an added risk of
    a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT
    networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate
    and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve
    managing and protecting information relating to national
    security and other sensitive government functions. The risk of a
    security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack
    or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign
    governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number,
    intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions
    from around the world have increased. As a communications and IT
    company, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a
    heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats
    to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’
    proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and
    related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that
    we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. These
    types of information and IT networks and related systems are
    critical to the operation of our business and essential to our
    ability to perform
    day-to-day
    operations, and in some cases are critical to the operations of
    certain of our customers. Although we make significant efforts
    to maintain the security and integrity of these types of
    information and IT networks and related systems, and we have
    implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security
    breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our
    security efforts and measures will be effective or that
    attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be
    successful or damaging. Even the most well protected
    information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially
    vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly
    cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the
    future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are
    constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until
    launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be
    detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may
    be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement
    adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and
    thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this
    risk. A security breach or other significant disruption
    involving these types of information and IT networks and related
    systems could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and
    therefore our operations
    and/or those
    of certain of our customers;








     
        • 

    
    Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss,
    theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential,
    sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our
    customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to
    compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise
    harmful purposes and outcomes;








     
        • 

    
    Compromise national security and other sensitive government
    functions;








     
        • 

    
    Require significant management attention and resources to remedy
    the damages that result;








     
        • 

    
    Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits,
    penalties or termination; or








     
        • 

    
    Damage our reputation among our customers (particularly agencies
    of the U.S. Government and potential customers of our Cyber
    Integrated Solutions business) and the public generally,





 


    Any or all of which could have a negative impact on our results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 



    We
    rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our
    managed satellite communications services, and any bandwidth
    constraints could harm our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.





    In our managed satellite communications services business, we
    compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial entities,
    such as other satellite communications services providers and
    broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as
    the military. In certain markets and at certain times, satellite
    bandwidth may be limited
    and/or
    pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive
    pressure. In such cases, we may be





    
    22



Table of Contents





    unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our
    managed satellite communications services, either at favorable
    rates or at all. This inability could harm our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in future business conditions could cause business investments
    and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in
    substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results
    of operations.





    As part of our overall strategy, we will, from time to time,
    acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These
    investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence
    procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic
    objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions
    and judgment in determining acquisition price. After
    acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely
    affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not
    recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after
    careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary
    significantly from initial estimates. Goodwill accounts for
    approximately 33 percent of our recorded total assets as of
    July 2, 2010. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded
    goodwill amounts annually, as well as when we change reporting
    segments and when events or circumstances indicate there may be
    an impairment. The annual impairment test is based on several
    factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected
    reporting segment cash flows or changes in market conditions may
    indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. For
    additional information on accounting policies we have in place
    for goodwill impairment, see our discussion under “Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates” in “Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations” of this Report and
    Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies and
    Note 22: Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived
    Assets in the Notes.


 



    We
    must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so
    could seriously harm us.





    Our business has a continuing need to attract significant
    numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding
    security clearances, to support our growth and to replace
    individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or
    for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified
    personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time
    in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or
    training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or
    could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts
    if our needs for such employees were unmet.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B