ITEM 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition.

         

        Proprietary Rights

         

        We hold trademarks relating to the “Henry Schein” name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. Pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both Henry Schein, Inc. and Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. (which was acquired by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of
        multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the “Schein” name in connection with their respective businesses, but Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. must always use “Schein” in combination with the word “Pharmaceuticals” and is not entitled to use the name “Henry Schein” or to use “Schein” alone or with any other word (other than “Pharmaceuticals”). We intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent
        practicable.

         

        Employees

         

        As of December 27, 2008, we employed more than 12,500 full-time employees, including approximately 1,425 telesales representatives, 2,775 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 2,325 warehouse employees, 500 computer programmers and technicians, 1,200 management employees and 4,325 office, clerical and administrative employees. Approximately 217 or 1.7% of our
        employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are excellent.

         

        Available Information

         

        We make available free of charge through our Internet Web site, www.henryschein.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
        and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

              The above information is also available at the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy at United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the SEC at (800) 732-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site at www.sec.gov, where the above information can be viewed.

        
            

             

            10

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

         

        Our principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road, Melville, New York 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. Unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the “Company,” “Henry Schein,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated
        subsidiaries.

         

        
            
                
                    
                        Executive Officers of the Registrant
                    
                
            
        

         

        
            
                
                    
                         
                    

                    
                        The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers:
                    
                
            
        

         

        
            
                
                    
                        Name
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Age
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Position
                    
                

                
                    
                         
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                         
                    
                

                
                    
                        Stanley M. Bergman
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        59
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Director
                    
                

                
                    
                        Gerald A. Benjamin
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        56
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, Director
                    
                

                
                    
                        James P. Breslawski
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        55
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        President, Chief Operating Officer, Director
                    
                

                
                    
                        Leonard A. David
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        60
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer
                    
                

                
                    
                        James Harding
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        53
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer
                    
                

                
                    
                        Stanley Komaroff
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        73
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Senior Advisor
                    
                

                
                    
                        Mark E. Mlotek
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        53
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Development, Director
                    
                

                
                    
                        Steven Paladino
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        51
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Director
                    
                

                
                    
                        Michael Racioppi
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        54
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer
                    
                

                
                    
                        Michael Zack
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        56
                    

                    
                         
                    

                    
                        President, International Group
                    
                
            
        

         

        Stanley M. Bergman has been our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. Mr. Bergman held the position of President from 1989 to 2005. Mr. Bergman held the position of Executive Vice President from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and Administration from 1980 to 1985.

         

        Gerald A. Benjamin has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President of Administration and Customer Satisfaction since 1993. Mr. Benjamin was Vice President of Distribution Operations from 1990 to 1992 and Director of
        Materials Management from 1988 to 1990. Before joining us in 1988, Mr. Benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at Estée Lauder, Inc., where his last position was Director of Materials Planning and Control.

         

        James P. Breslawski has been our President and Chief Operating Officer since 2005 and a director since 1992. Mr. Breslawski held the position of Executive Vice President and President of U.S. Dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the North American Dental Group. Between 1980 and 1990, Mr. Breslawski held various positions with us,
        including Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Administration and Controller.

         

        Leonard A. David has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer since 2006. Mr. David held the position of Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer from 2005 to 2006. Mr. David held the position of Vice President of Human Resources and Special Counsel from 1995 to 2005. Mr. David held the position of Vice President, General Counsel and
        Secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us.

         

        James Harding has been our Chief Technology Officer since 2005 and Senior Vice President since 2001. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Harding was Chief Information Officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology.

         

        
            

            11

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

         

        Stanley Komaroff has been our Senior Advisor since 2003. Prior to joining us, Mr. Komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to us. He served as Chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999.

         

        Mark E. Mlotek has been Executive Vice President of our Corporate Business Development Group since 2004 and was Senior Vice President of Corporate Business Development from 2000 to 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. Prior to joining us, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in
        the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994.

         

        Steven Paladino has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2000. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Paladino was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Paladino served as Vice President and Treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as
        Corporate Controller. Before joining us, Mr. Paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of BDO Seidman, LLP. Mr. Paladino is a certified public accountant.

         

        Michael Racioppi has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer since 2008. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Racioppi was President of the Medical Division from 2000 to 2008 and Interim President from 1999 to 2000, and Corporate Vice President from 1994 to 2008. Mr. Racioppi served as Senior Director, Corporate Merchandising from
        1992 to 1994. Before joining us in 1992, Mr. Racioppi was employed by Ketchum Distributors, Inc. as the Vice President of Purchasing and Marketing.

         

        Michael Zack has been President of our International Group since 2006. Mr. Zack held the position of Senior Vice President of our International Group from 1989 to 2006. Mr. Zack was employed by Polymer Technology (a subsidiary of Bausch & Lomb) as Vice President of International Operations from 1984 to 1989 and by Gruenenthal GmbH as Manager of
        International Subsidiaries from 1975 to 1984.

         

         

        
            

            12

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

         

        ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

         

        Declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

         

        Disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy and the economic outlook of the United States and other parts of the world could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect us. Recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending have caused and may continue to cause
        customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sales. We generally sell products to customers with payment terms. If customers’ cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. Likewise, for similar reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose
        different payment terms. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

         

        Disruptions in the financial market may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us.

         

        Our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of a number of financial
        institutions, reduced lending activity, decreased liquidity and higher costs in the commercial paper market, may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit. There can be no assurances that recent government initiatives in response to the disruptions in the financial markets will stabilize the markets in general or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to us.

         

        The healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. 

         

        We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive
        rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. Industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also
        could increase competition. In the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues.

         

        The healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business.

         

        The healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance plans;
        pressures relating to potential healthcare reform; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments
        or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. If we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business.

         

        
            

            13

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

         

        Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could negatively affect our business.

         

        Our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Among the federal laws with which we must comply are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended and the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987. Such
        laws:

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs and medical devices;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        subject us to inspection by the United States Food and Drug Administration and the United States Drug Enforcement Administration;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        regulate the transportation of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        require registration with the United States Food and Drug Administration and the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and various state agencies;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death.
                    
                
            
        

         

        Applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy of health or other personal information and the importation and exportation of products.
        Our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad.

         

        The failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. There can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. The costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and
        regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. Allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. If it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and
        distribution. If we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. Non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in government healthcare programs. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. We believe that the healthcare services industry
        will continue to be subject to extensive domestic and foreign government regulation and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance with the laws and regulations.

         

        If we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect to healthcare fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.

         

        We are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. The federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting government healthcare programs. Our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers subject our business to laws and
        regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or to induce the ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services that are in any

         

        
            

            14

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

         

        way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be
        interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs.

         

        Our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results.

         

        International operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks that our international operations are subject to include, among other things:

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        difficulties in establishing channels of distribution;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the United States;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        regulatory requirements;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets.
                    
                
            
        

         

        We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.

         

        Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. Net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. Net sales and operating
        profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. Quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including:

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        costs of developing new applications and services;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        loss of sales representatives;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        restructuring charges;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        changes in accounting principles;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products;
                    
                
            
        

        
            

             

            15

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

        
             
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers.
                    
                
            
        

         

        Any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. If our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline.

         

        Because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products.

         

        We obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. Generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. Therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. Because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption
        in production based on conditions outside of our control. In the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. An extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our
        influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock.

         

        Our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks.

         

        We have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. Such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. Some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions
        may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures:

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        requires significant management attention; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources.
                    
                
            
        

        
                There can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. Our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following:

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to U.S. or foreign antitrust regulations;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets.
                    
                
            
        

         

        Our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect.

         

                We are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. We cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or
        expenses in connection with these acquisitions. To effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of

        
            

             

            16

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

        these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, financial and operational controls. If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected.

        We face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury.

         

        Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices, bone regeneration and other healthcare products. Additionally, we own a majority interest in companies that manufacture certain dental products. As a
        result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. One of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. In addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. The improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the
        transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. We have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. In many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a
        reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business.

         

        Our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing.

         

        Competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. Our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors:

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        our ability to enhance our products and services; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        our ability to provide ongoing technical support.
                    
                
            
        

         

        We cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. Our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new
        versions are released. We cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. Any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. We do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. We cannot provide assurance that
        such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products.

         

        Our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute.

         

                Our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected.

         

        
            

            17

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

        

         

        Our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management.

         

        Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly Stanley M. Bergman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, among others. The loss of the services of Mr. Bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Bergman. We do not currently have “key
        man” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel.

         

        Increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business.

         

        Shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. We ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating
        expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis.

         

        We may not be able to respond to technological change effectively.

         

        Traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. Our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. The continued advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and
        introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. Our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business.

         

        We are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest rates.

         

        In 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange our fixed-rate interest rates for variable interest rates payable on our $230.0 million senior notes. Our fixed interest rates on the senior notes were 6.9% and 6.7% for the remaining $130.0 million and the remaining $40.0 million senior notes, respectively. The variable rate is comprised of LIBOR plus spreads and resets
        on the interest due dates for the senior notes. As a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates.

         

        The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile.

         

        The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. A variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including:

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        changes in our industry and competitors;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        stock repurchases;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        the dilutive impact of convertible debt on our earnings per share;
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        general market and economic conditions; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business.
                    
                
            
        

         

        
            

            18

             

            
        

         

        
            
        

         

        In addition, the Nasdaq Stock Market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on Nasdaq. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the
        market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business.

         

        Certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares.

         

        The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions, among other things:

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to:
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                         
                    

                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        remove a director; and
                    
                
            
        

        
            
                
                    
                         
                    

                    
                        •
                    

                    
                        to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions.
                    
                
            
        

         

        In addition, our 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan and 2001 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause by the Company or
        if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control.

         

        Tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities.

         

        We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, tax laws and
        regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.

         

        Item 1B