ITEM 1A. Risk
Factors 
    
    Declining
economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.
    
    Disruptions
in the financial markets and other macro-economic uncertainties that affect the
economy and the economic outlook of the United States and other parts of the
world could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely
affect us.  Recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer
and commercial spending have caused and may continue to cause customers to
reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause
vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sales.  We
generally sell products to customers with payment terms.  If
customers’ cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if
they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be
able to pay, or may delay payment to us.  Likewise, for similar
reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment
terms.  Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us
for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment
terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.
    
    Disruptions
in the financial market may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit
to us.
    
    Our
ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to
indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in
turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and
other factors beyond our control.  Disruptions in the financial
markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to
us.
    
    The healthcare products distribution
industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete
successfully.
    
    We
compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and
distributors.  Some of our competitors have greater financial and
other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more
successfully.  Most of our products are available from several sources
and our customers tend to have relationships with several
distributors.  Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market
particular products, which we would then be unable to
market.  Manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell
directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other
distributors.  Industry consolidation among healthcare products
distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to
our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from
manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase
competition.  In the future, we may be unable to compete successfully
and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues.
    
    The
healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our
business.
    
    The
healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political,
economic and regulatory influences.  In recent years, the healthcare
industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce
costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private
insurance programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and corporate health insurance
plans; pressures relating to potential healthcare reform; trends toward managed
care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of
healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation
among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to
customers.  Both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our
customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing
reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or
changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are
determined.  If we are unable to react effectively to these and other
changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely
affected.  In addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare
reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business.
    
      
        
        
      
      
        15
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    Failure
to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could negatively
affect our business.
    
    Our
business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and
international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of
pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue, and cellular and
tissue-based products (“HCT/P”).  Among the federal laws with which we
must comply are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, as amended, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, and
Section 361 of the Public Health Services Act (“Regulations to Control
Communicable Diseases”).  Among other things, such laws, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder:
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              regulate
      the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting,
      record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, HCT/P
      and medical devices;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              subject
      us to inspection by the United States Food and Drug Administration and the
      United States Drug Enforcement
Administration;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              regulate
      the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that
      are considered hazardous materials;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              require
      registration with the United States Food and Drug Administration and the
      United States Drug Enforcement Administration and various state
      agencies;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              require
      record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug
      products;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              require
      us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders
      of controlled substances to the United States Drug Enforcement
      Agency;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              require
      us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to
      inspection of our recall procedures and activities;
  and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              impose
      reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, HCT/P or medical device causes
      serious illness, injury or death.
            
          
    
     
    Applicable
federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet
various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration,
sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the
manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other
personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the
importation and exportation of products.  Our business also is subject
to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations
affecting our operations abroad.  The United States Food and Drug
Administration and Drug Enforcement Administration have recently increased their
regulatory and enforcement activities.
     
    The
failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of
existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and
regulations, could negatively affect our business.  There can be no
assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our
business.  The costs to us associated with complying with the various
applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be
modified, could be material. Allegations by a governmental body that we have not
complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our
businesses.  If it is determined that we have not complied with these
laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil
and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and
injunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and
distribution.  If we enter into settlement agreements to resolve
allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments
or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of
licenses.  Non-compliance with government requirements could adversely
affect our ability to participate in federal and state government healthcare
programs, and damage our reputation.  Any of the foregoing could have
a material adverse impact on our businesses.  We believe that the
healthcare services industry will continue to be subject to extensive domestic
and foreign government regulation and that we have adequate compliance programs
and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance with the laws and
regulations.
    
      
        
        
      
      
        16
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    If
we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud, we
could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our
operations.
     
    We are
subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and
regulations relating to healthcare fraud.  These measures, which focus
on our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers,
have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement
activity, over the past few years.  Significant enforcement activity
has been the result of actions brought by “relators,” who file complaints in the
name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under federal
and state False Claims Act statutes.  Damages can be catastrophic if a
violation is found.  These healthcare fraud laws and regulations,
among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or
paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for
treatment or to induce the ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or
recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services that are in
any way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a
number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated
health services under government healthcare programs.  While we
believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of
the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been
interpreted by the courts.  They may be interpreted or applied by a
prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require
us to make changes in our operations.  If we fail to comply with
applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties,
including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and
state healthcare programs.
    
    Expansion
of group purchasing organizations (“GPO”) or hospital purchasing power and the
multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive
disadvantage.
    
    The
medical-products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which
can vary by manufacturer and/or product. Under this structure, certain
institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are
able to obtain. The multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many
large integrated healthcare providers and others with significant purchasing
power, such as GPOs, demand more favorable pricing terms. This may threaten our
ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our
results of operations. Although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from
manufacturers and obtain access to lower prices demanded by GPO contracts or
other contracts, we cannot assure such terms will be obtained or contracts will
be executed.
    
    Our
international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely
affect our operating results.
    
    International
operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  The risks
that our international operations are subject to include, among other
things:
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              difficulties
      and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign
      operations;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              difficulties
      in establishing channels of
distribution;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              fluctuations
      in the value of foreign currencies;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              longer
      payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting
      receivables in foreign
jurisdictions;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              repatriation
      of cash from our foreign operations to the United
  States;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              regulatory
      requirements;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              unexpected
      difficulties in importing or exporting our
  products;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              imposition
      of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties;
    and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              unexpected
      regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign
    markets.
            
          
    
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        17
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    
    We
experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings.  As a result, we may
fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors,
which could cause our stock price to decline.
    
    Our
business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations.  Net
sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth
quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza
vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based
healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions.  Net sales and
operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due
to increased sales in the prior two quarters.  While recent history
has resulted in flat to declining sales, we expect our historical seasonality of
sales to continue in the foreseeable future.  Quarterly results may
also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors,
including:
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              costs
      of developing new applications and
services;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              costs
      related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or
      businesses;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              timing
      and amount of sales and marketing
expenditures;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              timing
      of pricing changes offered by our
vendors;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              timing
      of the introduction of new products and services by our
      vendors;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              changes
      in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate
  programs;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              vendor
      rebates based upon attaining certain growth
  goals;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              changes
      in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to
  market;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              exclusivity
      requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing
      competitive products manufactured by other
  vendors;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              loss
      of sales representatives;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              general
      economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry
      and related industries;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              timing
      of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related
      products and services;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              our
      success in establishing or maintaining business
    relationships;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              restructuring
      charges;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              changes
      in accounting principles;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              unexpected
      difficulties in developing and manufacturing
  products;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              product
      demand and availability or recalls by
  manufacturers;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              exposure
      to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the
      products we sell results in injury;
and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              increases
      in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party
      shippers.
            
          
    
     
    Any
change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or
quarterly operating results to fluctuate.  If our operating results do
not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline.
    
    Because
substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us,
we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of
substantially all of our products.
    
    We obtain
substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. Generally, we do
not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply
products to us.  Therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we
need in the quantities we request.  Because we generally do not
control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to
delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our
control.  In the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to
become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required
volumes, we would need to identify and obtain
    
      
        
        
      
      
        18
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    acceptable
replacement sources on a timely basis.  There is no guarantee that we
would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if
at all.  An extended interruption in the supply of our products,
including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume
product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most
likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock.
    
    Our
expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks.
    
    We have
expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and
joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into
joint ventures in the future.  Such transactions involve numerous
risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market
price of our common stock.  Some of our acquisitions and future
acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent
payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have
an adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition,
integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures:
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              may
      result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses
      or joint ventures;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              requires
      significant management attention;
and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              may
      place significant demands on our operations, information systems and
      financial resources.
            
          
    
     
    There can
be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be
successful.  Our ability to continue to successfully effect
acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following:
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at
      acceptable prices;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              our
      ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be
      prohibited due to U.S. or foreign antitrust
  regulations;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock
      transactions; and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be
      affected by the financial credit
markets.
            
          
    
     
    Our
acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we
expect.
    
    We are in
the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the
operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our
management policies, procedures and strategies.  We cannot be sure
that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these
acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses
in connection with these acquisitions.  To effectively manage our
expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration
of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal
procedures, working capital management, financial and operational
controls.  If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be
adversely affected.
    
    We
face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the
event that the use of the products we sell results in injury.
    
    Our
business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary
course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases
as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices,
bone regeneration and other healthcare products.  Additionally, we own
a majority interest in companies that manufacture certain dental products. As a
result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other
claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those
entities.  One of the potential risks we face in the distribution of
our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products
infiltrating the supply chain.  In addition, some of the products that
we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials.  The
improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the
    
      
        
        
      
      
        19
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    transportation
of such materials could subject us to liability.  We have various
insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in
amounts that we consider adequate.  In many cases in which we have
been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer
of the product provides us with indemnification.  There can be no
assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be
available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification
agreements will provide us with adequate protection.  A successful
claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by
indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse
publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business.
    
    Our
technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product
development, technical support and successful marketing.
    
    Competition
among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is
intense and increasing.  Our future sales of practice management
software and e-services will depend on, among other factors:
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      effectiveness of our sales and marketing
  programs;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              our
      ability to enhance our products and services;
  and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              our
      ability to provide ongoing technical
support.
            
          
    
     
    We cannot
be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software,
software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software
enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the
market.  Our software and applicable e-services products, like
software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when
introduced or as new versions are released.  We cannot be sure that
future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not
occur.  Any such defective software may result in increased expenses
related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the
customers using such software.  We do not have any patents on our
software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret
laws, as well as contractual and common law protections.  We cannot
provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable
to protect our software or e-services products.
    
    Risks
generally associated with our information systems could adversely affect our
results of operations.
    
    We rely
on information systems in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and
manage data to, among other things:
    
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              maintain
      and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution
      of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution
      centers;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              receive,
      process and ship orders on a timely
basis;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              manage
      the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers;
      and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              process
      payments to suppliers.
            
          
    
     
    Our
results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems are
interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, or fail for any extended period of
time.
     
    Our
revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as
customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we
distribute.
    
    Our
future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory
relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and
manufacturers.  If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with
such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the
future, our business may be adversely affected.
    
      
        
        
      
      
        20
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    Our
future success is substantially dependent upon our senior
management.
    
    Our
future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of
members of our existing senior management, particularly Stanley M. Bergman,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, among others.  The loss of the
services of Mr. Bergman could have a material adverse effect on our
business.  We have an employment agreement with Mr.
Bergman.  We do not currently have “key man” life insurance policies
on any of our employees.  Competition for senior management is
intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key
personnel.
    
    Increases
in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could
harm our business.
    
    Shipping
is a significant expense in the operation of our business.  We ship
almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically
bear the cost of shipment.  Accordingly, any significant increase in
shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating
results.  Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those
shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our
ability to deliver products on a timely basis.
    
    We
may not be able to respond to technological change effectively.
    
    Traditional
healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by
electronic online commerce solutions.  Our distribution business is
characterized by rapid technological developments and intense
competition.  The continued advancement of online commerce will
require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance
existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to
address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis,
particularly in response to competitive offerings.  Our inability to
anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an
adverse effect on our business.
    
    The
market price for our common stock may be highly volatile.
    
    The
market price for our common stock may be highly volatile.  A variety
of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common
stock, including:
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and
      speculation in the press or investment
  community;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              changes
      in our industry and competitors;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              our
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and
      prospects;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              stock
      repurchases;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              any
      future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings
      for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business
      acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock
      options from time to time;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              the
      dilutive impact of convertible debt on our earnings per
    share;
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              general
      market and economic conditions; and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              any
      outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do
      business.
            
          
    
     
    In
addition, the Nasdaq Stock Market can experience extreme price and volume
fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating
performance of the companies listed on Nasdaq.  Broad market and
industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock,
regardless of actual operating performance.  In the past, following
periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities
class action litigation has often been instituted against
companies.  This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in
substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which
would have an adverse effect on our business.
     
    
      
        
        
      
      
        21
        
          
        
      
      
        Table of Contents
      
    
    Certain
provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a
party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise
result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their
shares.
     
    The
provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more
difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and
may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future
for shares of our common stock.  These provisions, among other
things:
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              require
      the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of
      common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a
      sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our
      assets; and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              require
      the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common
      stock entitled to vote to:
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              remove
      a director; and
            
          
    
     
    
      

            
              ·  
            
            
              to
      amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited
    exceptions.
            
          
    
     
    In
addition, our 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock
Incentive Plan and 2001 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan provide for
accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain
agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance
payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause by the Company
or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a
change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the
change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the
change in control.
    
    Tax legislation initiatives could
adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities.
    
    We are
subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and
local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions.  From time to
time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely
affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate
will not be adversely affected by these initiatives.  In addition, tax
laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying
interpretations.  Although we believe that our historical tax
positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and
existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be
challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any
such challenge.
    
    
    Item 1B