Item 1A.RISK FACTORS We are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report.  Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as “intend,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “should,” “planned,” “projected,” “estimated” and “potential,” among others.  Among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements or could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are the risk factors described below. Issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the Company’s reputation, negatively impacting our operating results.In order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers.  Issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our Company’s image and reputation.  Negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, could decrease demand for our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions.  We may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption.  In addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages.  Costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results.  Increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. We use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. Commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: ŸCommodity market fluctuations;ŸCurrency exchange rates;ŸImbalances between supply and demand;ŸThe effect of weather on crop yield;ŸSpeculative influences;ŸTrade agreements among producing and consuming nations;ŸSupplier compliance with commitments;ŸPolitical unrest in producing countries; andŸChanges in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies.Although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs.  If we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. We may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption.  If we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 9Market demand for new and existing products could decline. We operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products.  To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers.  Our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following:ŸEffective retail execution;ŸAppropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs;ŸOur ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations;ŸProduct innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products;ŸChanges in product category consumption;ŸOur response to consumer demographics and trends; andŸConsumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients.There continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures in these markets, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins.  We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively.  Our largest customer, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 25.5% of our total net sales in 2013.  McLane Company, Inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the United States to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. The global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues.  Some of our competitors are much larger companies that have greater resources and more substantial international operations.  In order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products.  Due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits.  In addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. Disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver our finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results.Approximately three-quarters of our manufacturing capacity is located in the United States.  Disruption to our global manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, among other factors, the following:ŸNatural disaster;ŸPandemic outbreak of disease;ŸWeather;ŸFire or explosion;ŸTerrorism or other acts of violence;ŸLabor strikes or other labor activities; ŸUnavailability of raw or packaging materials; andŸOperational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers.We believe that we take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions.  We have strategies and plans in place to manage such events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy.  If we are unable, or find that it is not financially feasible, to effectively plan for or mitigate potential impacts of such disruptive events on our manufacturing operations or supply chain, our financial condition and  results of operations could be negatively impacted if such events were to occur.  10Our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures.From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives.  The success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval.  These activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management’s attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made.  If the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. Changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment.  These negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others.  It is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Political, economic, and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results.Our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors.  Volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition.Changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our Company, our customers and our suppliers.  A significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense.11International operations may not achieve projected growth objectives, which could adversely impact our overall business and results of operations. In 2013, we derived approximately 16.6% of our net sales from customers located outside of the United States.  Additionally, 19.4% of our total consolidated assets were located outside of the United States as of December 31, 2013.  As part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the United States, particularly in Mexico, Brazil, India and China.  As a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: ŸUnforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; ŸInability to establish, develop and achieve market acceptance of our global brands in international markets;ŸDifficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; ŸUnexpected changes in regulatory environments; ŸPolitical and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; ŸNationalization of our properties by foreign governments; ŸTax rates that may exceed those in the United States and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; ŸPotentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; ŸThe imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; ŸIncreased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; ŸThe impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies; ŸFailure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; andŸFailure to recruit, retain and build a talented and engaged global workforce.If we are not able to achieve our projected international growth objectives and mitigate numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our international operations, there could be a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations.Information technology is critically important to our business operations.  We use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions.  These processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others.  We invest in industry standard security technology to protect the Company’s data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack.  Our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies.  We measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings.  Additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards.  We maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness.  We also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology.While we believe that our security technology and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks, disruptions in or failures of information technology systems are possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation.  Failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction 12errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our Company, our employees, and those with whom we do business.Future developments related to civil antitrust lawsuits and the possible investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry in the United States could negatively impact our reputation and our operating results.  We are a defendant in a number of civil antitrust lawsuits in the United States, including individual, class, and putative class actions brought against us by purchasers of our products.  The U.S. Department of Justice also notified the Company in 2007 that it had opened an inquiry into certain alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry, but has not requested any information or documents.  Additional information about these proceedings is contained in Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K.  Competition and antitrust law investigations can be lengthy and violators are subject to civil and/or criminal fines and other sanctions.  Class action civil antitrust lawsuits are expensive to defend and could result in significant judgments, including in some cases, payment of treble damages and/or attorneys' fees to the successful plaintiff.  Additionally, negative publicity involving these proceedings could affect our Company's brands and reputation, possibly resulting in decreased demand for our products.  These possible consequences, in our opinion, currently are not expected to materially impact our financial position or liquidity, but could materially impact our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which any fines, settlements or judgments are accrued or paid, respectively.Item 1B