Item 1A.RISK FACTORS We are subject to changing economic, competitive, regulatory and technological risks and uncertainties because of the nature of our operations.  In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we note the following factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied in this report.  Many of the forward-looking statements contained in this document may be identified by the use of words such as “intend,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “should,” “planned,” “projected,” “estimated” and “potential,” among others.  Among the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in our forward-looking statements are the risk factors described below. Issues or concerns related to the quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall and/or result in harm to the Company’s reputation, negatively impacting our operating results.In order to sell our iconic, branded products, we need to maintain a good reputation with our customers and consumers.  Issues related to quality and safety of our products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize our Company’s image and reputation.  Negative publicity related to these types of concerns, or related to product contamination or product tampering, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions.  We may need to recall products if any of our products become unfit for consumption.  In addition, we could potentially be subject to litigation or government actions, which could result in payments of fines or damages.  Costs associated with these potential actions could negatively affect our operating results.  Increases in raw material and energy costs along with the availability of adequate supplies of raw materials could affect future financial results. We use many different commodities for our business, including cocoa products, sugar, dairy products, peanuts, almonds, corn sweeteners, natural gas and fuel oil. 9Commodities are subject to price volatility and changes in supply caused by numerous factors, including: ŸCommodity market fluctuations;ŸCurrency exchange rates;ŸImbalances between supply and demand;ŸThe effect of weather on crop yield;ŸSpeculative influences;ŸTrade agreements among producing and consuming nations;ŸSupplier compliance with commitments;ŸPolitical unrest in producing countries; andŸChanges in governmental agricultural programs and energy policies.Although we use forward contracts and commodity futures and options contracts, where possible, to hedge commodity prices, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs.  If we are unable to offset cost increases for major raw materials and energy, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability or may result in sales volume declines associated with pricing elasticity. We may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products or decreasing the size of our products; however, higher product prices or decreased product sizes may also result in a reduction in sales volume and/or consumption.  If we are not able to increase our selling prices or reduce product sizes sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Market demand for new and existing products could decline. We operate in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products.  To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers.  Our continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following:ŸEffective retail execution;ŸAppropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs;ŸOur ability to secure adequate shelf space at retail locations;ŸProduct innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products;ŸChanges in product category consumption;ŸOur response to consumer demographics and trends; andŸConsumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients.In these markets, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins.  We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including retailers and distributors, to compete effectively.  Our largest customer, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 22.2% of our total net sales in 2012.  McLane Company, Inc. is one of the largest wholesale distributors in the United States to convenience stores, drug stores, wholesale clubs and mass merchandisers, including Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Increased marketplace competition could hurt our business. The global confectionery packaged goods industry is intensely competitive and consolidation in this industry continues.  Some of our competitors are much larger firms that have greater resources and more substantial international operations.  In order to protect our existing market share or capture increased market share in this highly competitive retail environment, we may be required to increase expenditures for promotions and advertising, and continue to introduce and establish new products.  Due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising and new product 10introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing our market share and could result in lower sales and profits.  In addition, we may incur increased credit and other business risks because we operate in a highly competitive retail environment. Disruption to our supply chain could impair our ability to produce or deliver our finished products, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results.Disruption to our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could result from, but are not limited to, the following:ŸNatural disaster;ŸPandemic outbreak of disease;ŸWeather;ŸFire or explosion;ŸTerrorism or other acts of violence;ŸLabor strikes or other labor activities; ŸUnavailability of raw or packaging materials; andŸOperational and/or financial instability of key suppliers, and other vendors or service providers.We take adequate precautions to mitigate the impact of possible disruptions.  We have strategies and plans in place to manage such events if they were to occur, including our global supply chain strategies and our principle-based global labor relations strategy.  If we are unable, or if it is not financially feasible, to effectively mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such disruptive events, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted.Our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute or integrate acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures.From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives.  The success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers, sellers or business partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval.  These activities may present certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent, and operational risks, including diversion of management’s attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations; and challenges presented by acquisitions or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made.  If the acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Changes in governmental laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities or impact demand for our products. Changes in laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied may alter our business environment.  These negative impacts could result from changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws and environmental laws, among others.  It is possible that we could become subject to additional liabilities in the future resulting from changes in laws and regulations that could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Political, economic, and/or financial market conditions could negatively impact our financial results.Our operations are impacted by consumer spending levels and impulse purchases which are affected by general macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, availability of consumer credit and interest rates on that credit, consumer debt levels, energy costs and other factors.  Volatility in food and energy costs, sustained global recessions, rising unemployment and declines in personal spending could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial condition.Changes in financial market conditions may make it difficult to access credit markets on commercially acceptable terms which may reduce liquidity or increase borrowing costs for our Company, our customers and our suppliers.  A significant reduction in liquidity could increase counterparty risk associated with certain suppliers and service providers, 11resulting in disruption to our supply chain and/or higher costs, and could impact our customers, resulting in a reduction in our revenue, or a possible increase in bad debt expense.International operations could fluctuate unexpectedly and adversely impact our business. In 2012, we derived approximately 16.1% of our net sales from customers located outside of the United States.  Additionally, 20.5% of our total consolidated assets were located outside of the United States as of December 31, 2012.  As part of our global growth strategy, we are increasing our investments outside of the United States, particularly in Mexico, Brazil, India and China.  As a result, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: ŸUnforeseen global economic and environmental changes resulting in business interruption, supply constraints, inflation, deflation or decreased demand; ŸDifficulties and costs associated with compliance and enforcement of remedies under a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations; ŸUnexpected changes in regulatory environments; ŸPolitical and economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, terrorism, mass violence or armed conflict; ŸNationalization of our properties by foreign governments; ŸTax rates that may exceed those in the United States and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation; ŸPotentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; ŸThe imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; ŸIncreased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; ŸThe impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies; ŸFailure to gain sufficient profitable scale in certain international markets resulting in losses from impairment or sale of assets; andŸFailure to recruit, retain and build an engaged global workforce.Disruptions, failures or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations.Information technology is a critically important part of our business operations.  We use information technology to manage all business processes including manufacturing, financial, logistics, sales, marketing and administrative functions.  These processes collect, interpret and distribute business data and communicate internally and externally with employees, suppliers, customers and others.  We invest in industry standard security technology to protect the Company’s data and business processes against risk of data security breach and cyber attack.  Our data security management program includes identity, trust, vulnerability and threat management business processes as well as adoption of standard data protection policies.  We measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings.  Additionally, we certify our major technology suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards.  We maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness.  We also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology.While we believe that our security technology and processes are adequate in preventing security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks, disruptions or failure of information technology systems is possible and could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation.  Failure of our systems, including failures due to cyber attacks that would prevent the ability of systems to function as intended, could cause transaction errors, loss of customers and sales, and could have negative consequences to our Company, our employees, and those with whom we do business.12Future developments related to the investigation by government regulators of alleged pricing practices by members of the confectionery industry and civil antitrust lawsuits in the United States could negatively impact our reputation and our operating results. In 2007, the Competition Bureau of Canada began an inquiry into alleged violations of the Canadian Competition Act in the sale and supply of chocolate products sold in Canada between 2002 and 2008 by members of the confectionery industry, including Hershey Canada, Inc.  The U.S. Department of Justice also notified the Company in 2007 that it had opened an inquiry, but has not requested any information or documents.  We also are party to a number of civil antitrust lawsuits in the United States, including individual, class, and putative class actions.  Additional information about these proceedings is contained in Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K.  Competition and antitrust law investigations can be lengthy and violations are subject to civil and/or criminal fines and other sanctions.  Class action civil antitrust lawsuits are expensive to defend and could result in significant judgments, including in some cases, payment of treble damages and/or attorneys' fees to the successful plaintiff.  Additionally, negative publicity involving these proceedings could affect our Company's brands and reputation, possibly resulting in decreased demand for our products.  These possible consequences, in our opinion, should not materially impact our financial position or liquidity but could materially impact our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which they are accrued or paid, respectively.Pension costs or funding requirements could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. We sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans.  Changes in interest rates or in the market value of plan assets could affect the funded status of our pension plans.  This could cause volatility in our benefits costs and increase future funding requirements for our pension plans.  Additionally, we could incur pension settlement losses if a significant number of employees who have retired or have left the Company decide to withdraw substantial lump sums from their pension accounts.  A significant increase in pension expense, in pension settlement losses or in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  For more information, refer to page 41.Item 1B