ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. We routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. Some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. Below are certain important operational and strategic risks that could adversely affect our business. How we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors react to those developments, could also affect our future results. Volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits.We use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. Although raw material cost increases moderated in 2013, they remain at elevated levels. Historically, we have experienced the greatest amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases. Availability and pricing of these natural products, such as citrus and vanilla, can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control. If we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to cover raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. Increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 10Similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events. As we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. Furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have a long-term impact on our results of operations. To mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. However, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials, our margins could be adversely affected.Our international operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position.We operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the United States, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Latin America, and Greater Asia. During 2013, 78% of our net sales were to customers outside the United States and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. As a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors in this section and include the following: •governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates and currency fluctuations; •changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the European Union’s REACH regulations, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations; •the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets; •our ability to anticipate and adapt our flavors and fragrances to local preferences; •risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences; •changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the revenue that we generate in these countries; •risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; •difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained personnel; •risks and costs associated with health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; or •the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights. These factors may increase in importance as we expand our operations in emerging markets as part of our growth strategy.11We have made investments in and are expanding our business into emerging markets and regions, which exposes us to certain risks.As part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets, including Greater Asia, by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to focus on expanding our business in these markets. In addition to the currency and international operation risks described above, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. These risks include economies that include consumers with limited or fluctuating disposable income and discretionary spending on which the end users of our products depend, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency. In conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results.The increase in demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been driven by factors outside of our control, and if these factors do not persist our future growth could be adversely affected.Demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and economic growth, especially in emerging markets. Approximately 49% of our sales during 2013 were generated in emerging markets and we expect emerging markets to continue to significantly contribute to our future growth. Increasing consumer demand for products using flavors and fragrances is dependent on factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world’s population, all of which are outside of our control. Changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Accordingly, our future growth will depend upon the continued economic growth and development of consumer spending on products for which we supply flavors and fragrances in these global markets.The current volatility in the global economy may adversely affect consumer spending and may negatively impact our business and operating results.Our flavors and fragrances are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. Since mid-2008, the global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. These conditions led to economic contractions in the developed economies and reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. While some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing fiscal debt crisis in Europe and the austerity plans being adopted in many countries have, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase energy prices and inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. Reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances, increased pressure to reduce the price of our flavors and fragrances or order cancellations. To the extent that the volatility in global economic conditions continues, our sales, profitability and overall operating results could be adversely affected. We may not successfully develop and introduce new products that appeal to our customers or our customers may not accurately anticipate and respond to global consumer market trends.Our growth and performance largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that appeal to our customers, and ultimately to global consumers. We must continually anticipate and react to, in a timely and cost-efficient manner, changes in consumer preferences and demands. We cannot be certain that we will successfully achieve our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, delivery methods and other technologies. We currently spend approximately 9% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to successfully develop products that meet our customers’ specifications, can be delivered at an acceptable price and are accepted by the targeted consumer market. Furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur R&D costs to the time that these R&D costs may result in increased revenue. Consequently, even when we “win” a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, poor performance of our third-party vendors, insufficient resources allocated by our customers to promoting the new product, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by our competitors. 12If we are unable to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods, it may result in regulatory non-compliance, litigation costs, and harm to our reputation, all of which may adversely impact sales and our results of operations.The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are manufactured and sold. In addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. We use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance. Gaps in our operational processes could adversely affect the quality of our finished products and result in a regulatory non-compliance event. If a product non-compliance event were to go undetected, it could subject us to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. As our flavors and fragrances are used as ingredients in many products meant for human consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if our customer did not identify the defect and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. Such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, recalls and potential consumer litigation. Furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation. A disruption in operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results.As a company engaged in development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters and other external factors over which we have no control. If any of these events were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, while we have manufacturing facilities throughout the world, certain of our facilities are the sole manufacturer of a specific ingredient. If the manufacture of that ingredient were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing the production of an ingredient or reformulating a product may be substantial, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results.Our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances.We evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. Efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers’ demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. If our buying decisions do not accurately predict customer trends or our expectations about customer needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. Additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results from operations and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected.We selectively participate in programs offered by certain of our global customers, whereby we accelerate the receipt of cash by selling the selected accounts receivable positions with these customers, on a non-recourse basis, at a discount to designated third party banks. Should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash flow from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends.Our recent rationalization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies.As part of our strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth. To operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time we execute rationalization activities, which include manufacturing facility consolidations.  For example, during 2013, we announced the closure of three different facilities and the relocation and consolidation of those operations into other facilities. These activities may pose significant risks, which could include:13•the risk that we may be unable to integrate successfully the relocated manufacturing operations;•the risk that we may be unable to coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the relocated manufacturing operations;•the risk that we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;•potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and•unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated manufacturing operations.Furthermore, our rationalization and consolidation actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expect from these actions. Actual charges, costs and adjustments due to restructuring activities may vary materially from our estimates. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to effectively reduce overhead, rationalize manufacturing capacity, synchronize information technology systems, consolidate warehousing and distribution facilities, and shift production to more efficient facilities. Our restructuring plans may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of budgeted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins.We may not achieve expected efficiencies related to the proximity of our customers’ production facilities to our manufacturing facilities, or with respect to existing or future production relocation plans. As part of our strategy, we have consolidated certain manufacturing facilities to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth. Many of our facilities are located in close proximity to our customers in order to minimize both our customers’ and our own costs. However, we may not have sufficient demand to utilize all of our production capacity and may be required to ship excess products to other regions in which we operate, which will increase our costs and decrease our margins. In addition, our expected growth may not be realized which would result in excess capacity and reduced margins.Our foreign operations are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-U.S. anti-bribery regulations. Non-compliance with such regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or other benefits, along with various other anti-corruption laws. In addition, we have manufacturing operations in some jurisdictions which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. As needed, we conduct internal investigations, control testing and compliance reviews to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable anti-corruption and similar laws and regulations. We could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the FCPA or similar international laws and regulations could expose us to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights.We rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. As part of our strategy to protect our intellectual property rights, we often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. From time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon our intellectual property. As a result of such third party claims, we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves from assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation. For those intellectual property rights that are protected by way of trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, as we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. For intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the 14laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell. Our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer.The market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. We face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multinational and specialized flavor and fragrance companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances. Some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments, while others participate in many of our product segments. In addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can. Consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. Competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of our customer service, the support provided by our marketing and application groups, and our understanding of consumers. It is difficult for us to predict the timing and scale of our competitors’ actions in these areas. The discovery and development of new flavor and fragrance materials, protection of the Company’s intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are important issues in our ability to compete in our businesses. Increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability. Large multinational customers, and increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers, giving those that remain on “core lists” priority for new or modified products. To compete more successfully in this environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers’ needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on certain “core lists.” If we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations. Our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. Significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals.Attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. Competition for these employees can be intense. The ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. However, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. If we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected. Our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in a disruption to our business.For certain raw materials, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and we may not have readily available alternatives. If we are unable to maintain our supplier arrangements and relationships and are unable to obtain the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other financial distress, we could experience disruptions in production and our financial results could be adversely affected. Our results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation.We are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to indirect taxes. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. 15The level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. Changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements. The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be, and recently have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. An adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity. Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. In the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements. Impairment charges on our long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of our long-lived assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our sales and our relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in our stock price. We continue to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments on our business to assess whether impairment indicators are present. Accordingly, we may perform impairment tests more frequently than annually required, based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by the failure to successfully execute acquisitions, collaborations and joint ventures.From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures that align with our strategic objectives. The success of such activity depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable buyers or partners; perform effective assessments prior to contract execution; negotiate contract terms; and, if applicable, obtain government approval. These activities may present certain financial, managerial and operational risks, including diversion of management’s attention from existing core businesses; difficulties integrating or separating businesses from existing operations, including employee integration; and challenges presented by acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures which may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. If the acquisitions, collaborations or joint ventures are not successfully implemented or completed, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate.We have significant operations outside the U.S., the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. Additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition or liquidity. Although we employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future results.We are subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their 16interpretation. In addition, the current administration and Congress have announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could affect our tax rate. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.We are also subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate.We have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. These transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. Many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. There can be no assurance that a governmental authority will not challenge these policies more aggressively in the future or, if challenged, that we will prevail. We could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing.We may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made. Our operations may be affected by greenhouse emissions and climate change and related regulations.The availability of raw materials and energy supplies fluctuate in markets throughout the world. Climate change may also affect the availability and price of key raw materials, including natural products used in the manufacture of our products. In order to mitigate the risk of price increases and shortages, our purchasers have developed various sourcing strategies, including multiple suppliers, inventory management systems, various geographic suppliers and long-term agreements to mitigate risk. In addition to market forces, there are various regulatory efforts relating to climate change that may increase the cost of raw materials, particularly energy used to operate our facilities, that could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Information technology system failures or disruptions or breaches of our network security may adversely affect our business, interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation.We have information technology systems that support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, finance and intra-company communications throughout the world. These systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, break-ins and similar events.  Effective response to such disruptions will require effort and diligence on the part of our third-party vendors and employees to avoid any adverse impact to our information technology systems. In addition, our systems and proprietary data stored electronically may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cybercrime, computer hacking and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. If such unauthorized use of our systems were to occur, data related to our product formulas, product development and other proprietary information could be compromised. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, interrupt our operations, subject us to increased operating costs and expose us to litigation.The potential government regulation of certain of our product development initiatives is uncertain, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations.As part of our ingredients research program, we seek to collaborate with research institutions and companies throughout the world, including biotechnology companies. However, it is unclear whether any of our product developments will be classified as genetically modified food products subject to regulation as a biotechnology product. The manufacture of biotechnology products is subject to applicable Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations as prescribed by the Food and Drug Administration and the applicable standards prescribed by European Commission and the competent authorities of European Union Member States and to other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. Compliance with these regulations can be expensive and time consuming. Such regulation could also subject us to requirements for labeling and traceability, which may cause our customers to avoid our affected products and seek our competitors’ products. This may result in our inability to realize any benefit from our investment and have an adverse effect on our operating results.17 ITEM 1B