Item 1A.    Risk
Factors.
Competitive factors may negatively impact our sales
and marketability.
The market for flavor and fragrance products
is fragmented and highly competitive. IFF competes with many companies
and some of the Company's competitors specialize in one or more
of our product lines while others sell many of the same product lines.
In addition, some competitors may have greater financial and technical
resources. Increased competition by existing or future competitors,
including aggressive price competition, could result in the need for
the Company to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have
an impact on sales and profitability.
The Company is subject to
economic and social changes which may impact sales.
Demand for
consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and
broadened by changing social habits resulting from factors such as
increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage
population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the
continued growth in world population. Changes in any number of external
economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could
adversely impact our results of operations.
Results may be
negatively impacted by the price, quality and availability of raw
materials.
Raw materials are purchased from many sources from
all over the world, including essential oils, extracts and concentrate
derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals,
animal products, raw fruits and organic chemicals. Disruptions in the
supply or quality of ingredients or rising prices for ingredients
purchased could adversely impact results of operations and
profitability of the Company.

Results may be
negatively impacted by the inability to implement the Company’s
business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost
savings, profitability or growth targets. 

The Company is
committed to those particular business strategies which have been
identified as likely to drive profitable future growth and improve
operations and customer service. If the Company is unable to
successfully and timely implement these strategies, it would adversely
impact the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.
8




Results may be negatively impacted by the
impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in principal foreign
markets and the effectiveness of hedging and risk management
strategies.
The Company’s operations are conducted in
many countries, the results of which are reported in the local currency
and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. The
exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have
fluctuated and may continue to do so in the future. The Company employs
a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate
fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. However,
volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact the
Company’s reported results of operations, financial condition or
liquidity.
The Company’s results may be negatively
impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation.
The Company is involved in a number of legal claims. While the
Company believes that related insurance coverage is adequate with
respect to such claims, the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome
of such litigation. In addition, the Company cannot provide assurance
that future events will not require an increase in the amount accrued
for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has
not been previously accrued.
The Company’s results and
cash flows may be negatively impacted by future pension funding and
other postretirement obligations.
The Company establishes
assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions
regarding pension funding and other postretirement benefit obligations
based on current market conditions, plan participants, asset returns,
interest rates and other factors. Changes in pension and other
postretirement benefits, and associated expenses, may occur in the
future due to changes in demographics and assumptions. These changes
may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition, results
of operations or liquidity.

The Company’s
results may be negatively impacted by the effect of legal and
regulatory requirements, as well as restrictions imposed on operations
by foreign and domestic governmental entities.

Manufacture
and sale of the Company's products are subject to regulation in
the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, the Agriculture
Department, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the
Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration and state
authorities. Foreign operations of the Company are subject to similar
governmental regulation in a number of countries. Compliance with
existing governmental requirements and future governmental regulations
may adversely impact the Company’s financial condition, results
of operations or liquidity.
The Company may face risks
associated with events which may affect the world economy.
World events such as terrorist attacks, the current U.S. military
action in the Middle East and elsewhere, and hostilities in the Middle
East, Asia and other geographical areas, have and may in the future
weaken the U.S. and world economies. Any resulting weaknesses in these
economies may adversely affect the Company’s business or the
businesses of our customers, with a resultant negative impact on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations or
liquidity.
ITEM 1B