Item 1A. 
Risk Factors.



Competitive factors may negatively impact our sales and marketability.


The market for flavor and fragrance products is fragmented and highly competitive. IFF competes with many companies and some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product lines while others sell many of the same product lines. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater financial and technical resources. Increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have an impact on sales and profitability.


We are subject to economic and social changes which may impact sales.


Demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits resulting from factors such as increases in personal income, dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world population. Changes in any number of external economic factors, or changes in social or consumer preferences, could adversely impact our results of operations. The current macro-economic environment in the United States and Western Europe may adversely impact consumer spending on products for which we supply the flavor or fragrance.


Results may be negatively impacted by the price, quality and availability of raw materials.


Raw materials are purchased from many sources from all over the world, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits and organic chemicals. Disruptions in the supply or quality of ingredients or rising prices for ingredients purchased could adversely impact our results of operations and profitability.


Results may be negatively impacted by the inability to implement our business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability or growth targets.


We are committed to those particular business strategies which have been identified as likely to drive profitable future growth and improve operations and customer service. If we are unable to successfully and timely implement these strategies, it would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.


Results may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in principal foreign markets and the effectiveness of hedging and risk management strategies.


Our operations are conducted in many countries, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated and may continue to do so in the future. We employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. However, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our reported results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.


Results may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation.


We are involved in a number of legal claims. While we believe that related insurance coverage is adequate with respect to such claims, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued.

7




Table of Contents

Results and cash flows may be negatively impacted by future pension funding and other postretirement obligations.


We establish assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions regarding pension funding and other postretirement benefit obligations based on current market conditions, plan participants, asset returns, interest rates and other factors. Changes in pension and other postretirement benefits, and associated expenses, may occur in the future due to changes in demographics and assumptions. These changes may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.


Results may be negatively impacted by the effect of legal and regulatory requirements, as well as restrictions imposed on operations by foreign and domestic governmental entities.


The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, the Agriculture Department, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration and state authorities. Our foreign operations are subject to similar substantial governmental regulation in a number of countries, including extensive new requirements within the European Union. Compliance with existing governmental requirements and future governmental regulations may adversely impact financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.


We may face risks associated with events which may affect the world economy.


World events such as terrorist attacks, or regional conflicts have and may in the future weaken world economies. Any resulting weaknesses in these economies may adversely affect our business or the businesses of our customers, with a resultant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.







ITEM 1B