ITEM 1A.  RISK
    FACTORS.



 


    The following are some important factors that could cause the
    Company’s actual results to differ materially from those
    referred to or implied in any forward-looking statement. These
    are in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed
    elsewhere in this Annual Report of
    Form 10-K
    and in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission.


 



    The
    current volatility in global economic conditions and the
    financial markets may adversely affect our industry, business
    and results of operations.


 


    The volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets
    since mid-2008 has rapidly impacted global economic conditions,
    resulting in significant recessionary pressures and declines in
    consumer confidence and economic growth. These conditions have
    led to economic contractions in the developed economies and
    reduced growth rates in the emerging markets. Despite fiscal and
    monetary intervention, it is possible that further declines in
    consumer spending and global growth rates may occur in the
    foreseeable future. Reduced consumer spending may cause changes
    in customer order patterns including order cancellations, and
    changes in the level of inventory at our customers, which may
    adversely affect our industry, business and results of
    operations. The impact of the credit crisis and economic
    slowdown will vary by region and country. The diversity of our
    geographic customer and operating footprint limits our reliance
    and exposure to any single economy.


 


    These conditions have also resulted in a substantial tightening
    of the credit markets, including lending by financial
    institutions and in the commercial paper market, both of which
    are sources of credit for our borrowing and liquidity. This
    tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of
    capital and reduced the availability of credit. Based on our
    latest discussions, we believe that the financial institutions
    syndicated under our revolving credit facility are able to
    fulfill their commitments as of our filing date. It is difficult
    to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit
    market conditions will continue, whether they will continue to
    deteriorate and which aspects of our products or business could
    be adversely affected. However, if current levels of economic
    and capital and credit market disruption and volatility continue
    or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience
    an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, the
    cost of and access to capital and credit markets, and our
    results of operations. In addition, we monitor the financial
    condition of our customers on a regular basis based on public
    information or data provided directly to us. If the financial
    condition of one of our major customers was negatively impacted
    by market conditions or liquidity, we could be adversely
    impacted in terms of accounts receivable
    and/or
    inventory specifically attributable to them.


 



    Failure
    to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and
    finished goods may adversely impact sales and our results of
    operations.


 


    The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various
    regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our
    products are manufactured and sold. In addition, we are subject
    to product safety and compliance requirements established by the
    industry or similar oversight bodies. We use a variety of
    strategies, methodologies and tools to identify current products
    standards, assess relative risks in our supply chain that can
    impact product integrity, monitor internal and external
    performance, test raw materials and finished goods to minimize
    the likelihood of product non-compliance. If a non-compliance
    event went undetected, we could be subject to customer claims,
    penalties, litigation costs
    and/or
    settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales.


 



    Competitive
    factors may negatively impact our sales and
    marketability.


 


    The market for flavors and fragrances is fragmented and highly
    competitive. IFF competes with many companies and some of our
    competitors specialize in one or more of our product segments
    while others participate



    
    7



Table of Contents




    in many of the same segments. In addition, some of our
    competitors may have greater financial and technical resources.
    Increased competition by existing or future competitors,
    including aggressive price competition, could result in the need
    for us to reduce prices or increase spending and this could have
    an impact on sales and profitability.


 



    We are
    subject to economic and social changes which may impact
    sales.


 


    Demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances has
    been stimulated and broadened by changing social habits
    resulting from factors such as increases in personal income,
    dual-earner households, teenage population, leisure time, health
    concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in world
    population. Changes in any number of external economic factors,
    or changes in social or consumer preferences, could adversely
    impact our results of operations. Approximately 60% of our sales
    occur in the developed markets of North America, Western Europe
    and Australasia with the remainder in emerging markets.
    Accordingly, the impact on our operations will depend upon
    consumer spending on products for which we supply the flavor or
    fragrance in these global markets.


 



    Results
    may be negatively impacted by the price, quality and
    availability of raw materials.


 


    Raw materials are purchased from many sources from all over the
    world, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates
    derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other
    botanicals, animal products, raw fruits and organic chemicals.
    Disruptions in the supply or quality of ingredients or rising
    prices for ingredients purchased could adversely impact our
    results of operations and profitability. Historically, we have
    experienced the greatest amount of volatility in natural
    products that represent approximately 50% of raw material
    purchases. Availability and pricing of these products can be
    impacted by crop size and quality, demand balance or alternative
    land use. To mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic
    stock levels covering multiple periods for critical items
    and/or time
    purchases to capitalize on favorable market conditions.


 



    Results
    may be negatively impacted by the inability to implement our
    business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost
    savings, profitability or growth targets.


 


    We are committed to those particular business strategies and
    market segments that have been identified as likely to drive
    profitable future growth and improve operations and customer
    service. If we are unable to successfully and timely implement
    these strategies, it would adversely impact our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Results
    may be negatively affected by the impact of currency fluctuation
    or devaluation in principal foreign markets and the
    effectiveness of hedging and risk management
    strategies.


 


    Our operations are conducted in many countries, the results of
    which are reported in the local currency and then translated
    into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. The
    exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar
    have fluctuated and may continue to do so in the future. We
    employ a variety of techniques to reduce the impact of exchange
    rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited
    number of foreign currency hedging activities. However,
    volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our
    reported results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.


 



    Results
    may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties
    related to litigation.


 


    We are involved in a number of legal claims. While we believe
    that related insurance coverage is adequate with respect to such
    claims, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such
    litigation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that future
    events will not require an increase in the amount accrued for
    any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that
    has not been previously accrued.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Results
    and cash flows may be negatively impacted by future pension
    funding and other postretirement obligations.


 


    We establish assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial
    assumptions regarding pension funding and other postretirement
    benefit obligations based on current market conditions, plan
    participants, asset returns, interest rates and other factors.
    Changes in pension and other postretirement benefits, plan
    assets, and associated expenses may occur in the future due to
    changes in capital markets, employee demographics and actuarial
    assumptions. These changes may adversely impact our financial
    condition, results of operations or liquidity.


 



    Results
    may be negatively impacted by the effect of legal and regulatory
    requirements, as well as restrictions imposed on operations by
    foreign and domestic governmental entities.


 


    The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to
    regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug
    Administration, the Agriculture Department, the Bureau of
    Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Environmental Protection
    Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the
    Drug Enforcement Administration and state authorities. In
    addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance
    requirements established by the industry or similar oversight
    bodies. Our foreign operations are subject to similar
    substantial governmental regulation and oversight standards in a
    number of countries, including extensive requirements within the
    European Union. Costs or investments necessary to maintain
    compliance with existing or future governmental regulations may
    adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations
    or liquidity.


 



    We may
    face risks associated with events which may affect the world
    economy.


 


    World events such as terrorist attacks, or regional conflicts
    have and may in the future weaken world economies. Any resulting
    weaknesses in these economies may adversely affect our business
    or the businesses of our customers, with a resultant negative
    impact on our financial condition, results of operations or
    liquidity.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B