Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” in this Annual Report, that may cause our
    actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements
    to be materially different from any future results, levels or
    activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by
    these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the
    expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are
    reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of
    activity, performance or achievements. Accordingly, you should
    not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak
    only as of the date of this Annual Report. We are not under any
    duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the
    date we file this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or to conform these statements to actual results, unless
    required by law. You should, however, review the factors and
    risks we describe in the reports we file from time to time with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission.


 


    Illumina®,
    Array of
    Arraystm,
    BeadArraytm,
    BeadXpresstm,
    CSProtm,
    DASL®,
    GoldenGate®,
    Infinium®,
    IntelliHybtm,
    iSelecttm,
    Making Sense Out of
    Life®,
    Oligator®,
    Sentrix®,
    VeraCodetm,
    Solexa®,
    MPSStm
    are our trademarks. This report also contains brand names,
    trademarks or service marks of companies other than Illumina,
    and these brand names, trademarks and service marks are the
    property of their respective holders.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    on our website, www.illumina.com. The information on our website
    is not incorporated by reference into this report. Such reports
    are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after
    filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at
    www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information
    statements, and other information regarding issuers that
    electronically file with the SEC.


 



    Overview


 


    We are a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of
    next-generation life science tools and integrated systems for
    the large scale analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function. Using our proprietary technologies, we provide a
    comprehensive line of products and services that currently serve
    the sequencing, genotyping and gene expression markets, and we
    expect to enter the market for molecular diagnostics. Our
    customers include leading genomic research centers,
    pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, clinical
    research organizations and biotechnology companies. Our tools
    provide researchers around the world with the performance,
    throughput, cost effectiveness and flexibility necessary to
    perform the billions of genetic tests needed to extract valuable
    medical information from advances in genomics and proteomics. We
    believe this information will enable researchers to correlate
    genetic variation and biological function, which will enhance
    drug discovery and clinical research, allow diseases to be
    detected earlier and permit better choices of drugs for
    individual patients.



    
    2



Table of Contents



 


    On January 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of
    Solexa, Inc. (Solexa) for approximately 13.1 million shares
    of our common stock. Solexa develops and commercializes genetic
    analysis technologies used to perform a range of analyses,
    including whole genome resequencing, gene expression analysis
    and small RNA analysis. We believe our combined company is the
    only company with genome-scale technology for genotyping, gene
    expression and sequencing, the three cornerstones of modern
    genetic analysis.


 


    We were incorporated in California in April 1998. We
    reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000. Our principal executive
    offices are located at 9885 Towne Centre Drive, San Diego,
    California 92121. Our telephone number is
    (858) 202-4500.


 



    Industry
    Background


 



    Genetic
    Variation and Biological Function


 


    Every person inherits two copies of each gene, one from each
    parent. The two copies of each gene may be identical, or they
    may be different. These differences are referred to as genetic
    variation. Examples of the physical consequences of genetic
    variation include differences in eye and hair color. Genetic
    variation can also have important medical consequences. Genetic
    variation affects disease susceptibility, including
    predisposition to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and
    Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, genetic variation may
    cause people to respond differently to the same drug treatment.
    Some people may respond well, others may not respond at all, and
    still others may experience adverse side effects. A common form
    of genetic variation is a single-nucleotide polymorphism, or
    SNP. A SNP is a variation in a single position in a DNA
    sequence. It is estimated that the human genome contains over
    nine million SNPs.


 


    While in some cases a single SNP will be responsible for
    medically important effects, it is now believed that
    combinations of SNPs may contribute to the development of most
    major diseases. Since there are millions of SNPs, it is
    important to investigate many representative, well-chosen SNPs
    simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable
    information.


 


    Another contributor to disease and dysfunction is the over- or
    under-expression of genes within an organism’s cells. A
    very complex network of genes interacts to maintain health in
    complex organisms. The challenge for scientists is to delineate
    the associated genes’ expression patterns and their
    relationship to disease. Until recently, this problem was
    addressed by investigating effects on a
    gene-by-gene
    basis. This is time consuming, and difficulties exist when
    several pathways cannot be observed or “controlled” at
    the same time. With the advent of microarray technology,
    thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time.


 



    SNP
    Genotyping


 


    SNP genotyping is the process of determining which base (A, C, G
    or T) is present at a particular site in the genome within
    an individual or other organism. The use of SNP genotyping to
    obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual SNP
    or a collection of SNPs, and to apply that information to
    clinical trials and diagnostic testing, requires the analysis of
    millions of SNP genotypes and the testing of large populations
    for each disease. For example, a single large clinical trial
    could involve genotyping 300,000 SNPs per patient in
    1,000 patients, thus requiring 300 million assays.
    Using previously available technologies, this scale of SNP
    genotyping was both impractical and prohibitively expensive.


 


    Large-scale SNP genotyping can be used in a variety of ways,
    including studies designed to understand the genetic
    contributions to disease (disease association studies),
    genomics-based drug development, clinical trial analysis,
    disease predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. SNP
    genotyping can also be used outside of healthcare, for example
    in the development of plants and animals with desirable
    commercial characteristics. These markets will require billions
    of SNP genotyping assays annually.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    Gene
    Expression Profiling


 


    Gene expression profiling is the process of determining which
    genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is
    accomplished by measuring mRNA, the intermediary messenger
    between genes (DNA) and proteins. Variation in gene expression
    can cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease
    or predisposition to disease. By comparing gene expression
    patterns between cells from different environments, such as
    normal tissue compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or
    absence of a drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a
    role in these processes can be identified. Studies of this type,
    often used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and
    preferably tens of thousands, of mRNAs in large numbers of
    samples. Once a smaller set of genes of interest has been
    identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are
    expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example,
    within a clinical trial.


 


    As gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases,
    gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important
    diagnostic tool. Diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is
    anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the
    sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more
    cost-effective technologies.


 



    Sequencing


 


    DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of bases
    (A, C, G or T) in a DNA sample, which can be further
    divided into de novo sequencing, re-sequencing, and tag
    sequencing. In de novo sequencing, the goal is to determine the
    sequence of a representative individual from a species never
    before sequenced. Understanding the similarities and differences
    in DNA sequence between many species can help to improve our
    understanding of the function of the structures found in the DNA.


 


    In re-sequencing, one determines the sequences of many
    individuals from the same species, generally comparing each to a
    standard or reference sequence. This is an extremely
    comprehensive form of genotyping, in which every single base is
    characterized for possible mutations. Mutations tend to fall in
    two categories: those which occur fairly frequently at a tiny
    fraction of bases (e.g. at about 0.1% of bases in humans), and
    those which occur much less frequently but at a large number of
    locations. Both types can contribute to diseases. Genotyping can
    subsequently be used to characterize the former, but
    re-sequencing is used to assay the latter. With the merger of
    Illumina and Solexa, we will have
    state-of-the-art
    technologies for both.


 


    In tag sequencing, short sequences, each representative of a
    larger molecule or genomic location, are detected and counted.
    In these applications, the number of times that each tag is seen
    provides quantification of an underlying biological process. As
    an example, in digital gene expression, one tag sequence may
    exist for each gene, and the number of copies of this tag which
    are detected in an experiment is a measure of how actively that
    gene is being expressed in the tissue sample being analyzed.



    
    4



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    Technologies


 



    BeadArray
    Technology


 


    We have developed a proprietary array technology that enables
    the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function. Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads
    and a substrate in a simple proprietary manufacturing process to
    produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously. Our
    BeadArray technology provides a unique combination of high
    throughput, cost effectiveness, and flexibility. We achieve high
    throughput with a high density of test sites per array and we
    are able to format arrays either in a pattern arranged to match
    the wells of standard microtiter plates or in various
    configurations in the format of standard microscope slides. We
    seek to maximize cost effectiveness by reducing consumption of
    expensive reagents and valuable samples, and through the low
    manufacturing costs associated with our technologies. Our
    ability to vary the size, shape and format of the well patterns
    and to create specific bead pools, or sensors, for different
    applications provides the flexibility to address multiple
    markets and market segments. We believe that these features have
    enabled our BeadArray technology to become a leading platform
    for the emerging high-growth market of SNP genotyping and expect
    they will enable us to become a key player in the gene
    expression market.


 


    Our proprietary BeadArray technology combines microwells etched
    into a substrate and specially prepared beads that self-assemble
    into an array. We have deployed our BeadArray technology in two
    different array formats, the Array Matrix and the BeadChip. Our
    first bead-based product was the Array Matrix which incorporates
    fiber optic bundles. The fiber optic bundles, which we cut into
    lengths of less than one inch, are manufactured to our
    specifications. Each bundle is comprised of approximately 50,000
    individual fibers and 96 of these bundles are placed into an
    aluminum plate, which forms an Array Matrix. BeadChips are
    fabricated in microscope slide-shaped sizes with varying numbers
    of sample sites per slide. Both formats are chemically etched to
    create tens to hundreds of thousands of wells for each sample
    site.


 


    In a separate process, we create sensors by affixing a specific
    type of molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in
    a batch. We make different batches of beads, with the beads in a
    given batch coated with one particular type of molecule. The
    particular molecules on a bead define that bead’s function
    as a sensor. For example, we create a batch of SNP sensors by
    attaching a particular DNA sequence, or oligo, to each bead in
    the batch. We combine batches of coated beads to form a pool
    specific to the type of array we intend to create. A bead pool
    one milliliter in volume contains sufficient beads to produce
    thousands of arrays.


 


    To form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact
    with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the
    wells, one bead per well. The tens of thousands of beads in the
    wells comprise our individual arrays. Because the beads assemble
    randomly into the wells, we perform a final procedure called
    ’decoding’ in order to determine which bead type
    occupies which well in the array. We employ several proprietary
    methods for decoding, a process that requires only a few steps
    to identify all the beads in the array. One beneficial
    by-product of the decoding process is a validation of each bead
    in the array. This quality control test characterizes the
    performance of each bead and can identify and eliminate use of
    any empty wells. We ensure that each bead type on the array is
    sufficiently represented by including multiple copies of each
    bead type. Multiple bead type copies improve the reliability and
    accuracy of the resulting data by allowing statistical
    processing of the results of identical beads. We believe we are
    the only microarray company to provide this level of quality
    control in the industry.



    
    5



Table of Contents



 


    An experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as DNA
    from a patient, and introducing it to the array. The design
    features of our Array Matrix allow it to be simply dipped into a
    solution containing the sample, whereas our BeadChip allows
    processing of samples on a slide-sized platform. The molecules
    in the sample bind to their matching molecules on the coated
    bead. These molecules in either the sample or on the bead are
    labeled with a fluorescent dye either before or after the
    binding. The BeadArray Reader detects the fluorescent dye by
    shining a laser on the fiber optic bundle or on the BeadChip.
    This allows the detection of the molecules resulting in a
    quantitative analysis of the sample.


 



    VeraCode
    Technology


 


    The BeadArray technology is most effective in applications which
    require mid- to high levels of multiplexing from low to high
    levels of throughput. Multiplexing refers to the number of
    individual pieces of information that are simultaneously
    extracted from one sample. We believe the molecular diagnostics
    market will require systems which are extremely high throughput
    and cost effective in the mid- to
    low-multiplex
    range. To address this market, we acquired the VeraCode
    technology through our acquisition of CyVera Corporation in
    April 2005. Based on digitally encoded microbeads, VeraCode
    enables low-cost multiplexing from 1 to 384-plex in a single
    well. We plan to implement the VeraCode technology using our
    newly designed BeadXpress system and our existing assays. We
    believe that this system will enable lower multiplex genotyping,
    gene expression and protein based assays. In the research
    market, we expect our customers to utilize our BeadArray
    technology for their higher multiplex projects and then move to
    our BeadXpress system for their lower multiplex projects
    utilizing the same assays. Additionally, we believe that the
    cost and multiplex advantages of the BeadXpress system using our
    VeraCode technology will be welcomed in the molecular
    diagnostics market. We expect to launch the BeadXpress system
    during the first quarter of 2007, along with several assays for
    the system.


 



    Oligator
    Technology


 


    Genomic applications require many different short pieces of DNA
    that can be made synthetically, called oligos. We have developed
    our proprietary Oligator technology for the parallel synthesis
    of many different oligos to meet the requirements of large-scale
    genomics applications. We believe that our Oligator technology
    is substantially more cost effective and provides significantly
    higher throughput than available commercial alternatives. Our
    synthesis machines are computer controlled and utilize many
    robotic processes to minimize the amount of labor used in the
    manufacturing process. In 2005, we implemented our
    fourth-generation Oligator technology, which is capable of
    manufacturing over 13,000 different oligos per run. This is an
    improvement over prior generations of technology where we could
    only manufacture approximately 3,000 oligos per run. This
    increase in scale was necessary to enable us to support the
    manufacture of oligos under our collaboration with Invitrogen as
    well as to support our increased internal need for oligos, a
    critical component of our BeadArray technology, for product
    sales and new product development.



    
    6



Table of Contents



 



    Sequencing
    Technology


 


    Our DNA sequencing technology, acquired as part of the Solexa
    merger which was completed on January 26, 2007, is based on
    use of our
    sequencing-by-synthesis
    (SBS) biochemistry. In SBS, single stranded DNA is extended from
    a priming site, one base at a time, using reversible terminator
    nucleotides. These are DNA bases which can be added to a growing
    second strand, but which initially cannot be further extended.
    This means that at each cycle of the chemistry, only one base
    can be added. Each base which is added includes a fluorescent
    label which is specific to the particular base. Thus following
    incorporation, the fluorescence can be imaged, its color
    determined, and the base itself can be inferred. Once this is
    done, an additional step removes both the fluorescence and the
    block that had prevented further extension of the second strand.
    This allows another base to be added, and the cycle can be
    repeated. We have shown data in which this cycle is repeated up
    to 50 times, thus determining DNA sequences which are up to 50
    bases long. This may well increase in the future as we further
    develop this technology. The reversible terminator bases which
    we use are novel synthetic molecules which we manufacture. They
    are not well incorporated by naturally occurring polymerases, so
    we have also developed proprietary enzymes for this purpose.
    Both the nucleotides and enzymes are the subject of significant
    intellectual property.


 


    In our DNA sequencing systems, we apply the SBS biochemistry on
    microscopic islands of DNA. These are called DNA clusters. Each
    cluster starts as a single DNA molecule, typically a few hundred
    bases long, attached to the inside surface of a flow cell. We
    then use a proprietary amplification biochemistry to create
    copies of each starting molecule. As the copies are made, they
    are covalently linked to the surface, so they cannot diffuse
    away. After a number of cycles of amplification, each cluster
    might have 500 to 1,000 copies of the original starting
    molecule, but still be only about a micron (one-millionth of a
    meter) in diameter. By making so many copies, the fluorescent
    signal from each cluster is significantly increased. Because the
    clusters are so small though, tens of millions of clusters can
    be independently formed inside a single flow cell. This large
    number of clusters can then be sequenced simultaneously, by
    alternate cycles of SBS biochemistry and electronic imaging.


 



    Key Advantages
    of Our Technology


 


    We believe that our technology provides distinct advantages, in
    a variety of applications, over competing technologies, by
    creating cost-effective, highly miniaturized arrays with the
    following characteristics:


 


    High Throughput.  The miniaturization of our
    BeadArray technology provides very high information content per
    unit area. To increase sample throughput, we have formatted our
    array matrix in a pattern arranged to match the wells of
    standard microtiter plates, allowing throughput levels of up to
    nearly 150,000 unique assays per microtiter plate, and we use
    laboratory robotics to speed process time. Similarly, we have
    patterned our whole-genome expression BeadChips to support up to
    48,000 gene expression assays for six samples with each
    BeadChip, and our whole-genome genotyping BeadChips to support
    up to 650,000 genotypes with each BeadChip. Our Infinium and
    GoldenGate assays are supported by full automation and LIMS to
    address high throughput laboratories. Our Illumina Genome
    Analyzer can analyze the DNA sequences of tens of millions of
    clusters at one time.


 


    Cost Effectiveness.  Our array products
    substantially reduce the cost of our customers’ experiments
    as a result of our proprietary manufacturing process and our
    ability to capitalize on cost reductions generated by advances
    in fiber optics, plasma etching processes, digital imaging and
    bead chemistry. In addition, our products require smaller
    reagent volumes than other array technologies, thereby reducing
    reagent costs for our customers. Our Oligator technology further
    reduces reagent costs, as well as reducing our cost of coating
    beads used in our BeadArray and VeraCode technologies. We expect
    the Illumina Genome Analyzer to allow DNA sequencing at
    1/100th of the cost of conventional capillary instruments.



    
    7



Table of Contents



 


    Flexibility.  We are able to offer flexible
    solutions to our customers based on our ability to attach
    different kinds of molecules, including DNA, RNA, proteins and
    other chemicals, to our beads. In addition, we can have
    BeadChips manufactured in multiple shapes and sizes with wells
    organized in various arrangements to optimize them for different
    markets and market segments. In combination, the use of beads
    and etched wells provides the flexibility and scalability for
    our BeadArray technology to be tailored to perform many
    applications in many different market segments, from drug
    discovery to diagnostics. Our Oligator technology allows us to
    manufacture a wide diversity of lengths and quantities of
    oligos. DNA sequences determined with our Illumina Genome
    Analyzer can also be used to identify larger DNA or RNA
    molecules from which the sequences have been derived, which
    leads to a series of applications based on tag sequencing,
    including digital gene expression analysis and microRNA
    discovery and quantification.


 


    Quality and Reproducibility.  The quality of
    our products is dependent upon each element in the
    system — the array, the assay used to perform the
    experiment and the instrumentation and software used to capture
    the results. Each array is manufactured with a high density of
    beads, which enables us to have multiple copies of each
    individual bead type. We measure the copies simultaneously and
    combine them into one data point. This allows us to make a
    comparison of each bead against its own population of identical
    beads, which permits the statistical calculation of a more
    reliable and accurate value for each data point. Finally, the
    manufacture of the array includes a proprietary decoding step
    that also functions as a quality control test of every bead on
    every array, improving the overall quality of the data. When we
    develop the assays used with our products, we focus on
    performance, cost and ease of use. By developing assays that are
    easy to use, we can reduce the potential for the introduction of
    error into the experiment. We believe that this enables
    researchers to obtain high quality and reproducible data from
    their experiments. Additionally, we manufacture substantially
    all of the reagents used in our assays, allowing us to control
    the quality of the product delivered to the customer.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    Our goal is to make our BeadArray, BeadXpress and Illumina
    Genome Analyzer platforms the industry standard for products and
    services addressing the genetic analysis markets. We plan to
    achieve this by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    focusing on emerging high-growth markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    rapidly commercializing our BeadLab, BeadStation, BeadXpress,
    Illumina Genome Analyzer, Array Matrix and BeadChip products;



 


     
        • 

    
    expanding our technologies into multiple product lines,
    applications and market segments; and



 


     
        • 

    
    strengthening our technological leadership.





 



    Products and
    Services


 


    The first implementation of our BeadArray technology, the Array
    Matrix, is a disposable matrix with 96 fiber optic bundles
    arranged in a pattern that matches the standard
    96-well
    microtiter plate. Each fiber optic bundle performs more than
    1,500 unique assays. The BeadChip, introduced in 2003, is
    fabricated in multiple configurations to support multiple
    applications and scanning technologies.


 


    We have provided genotyping services using our proprietary
    BeadArray technology since 2001. In addition, we have developed
    our first genotyping and gene expression products based on this
    technology. These products include disposable Array Matrices and
    BeadChips, GoldenGate and Infinium reagent kits for SNP
    genotyping, BeadArray Reader scanning instruments and an
    evolving portfolio of custom and standard gene expression
    products.



    
    8



Table of Contents



 



    SNP
    Genotyping


 


    In 2001, we introduced the first commercial application of our
    BeadArray technology by launching our SNP genotyping services
    product line. Since this launch, we have had peak days in which
    we operated at over 60 million genotypes per day. To our
    knowledge, no other genotyping platform can achieve comparable
    levels of throughput while delivering such high accuracy and low
    cost.


 


    We designed our first consumable BeadArray product, the Array
    Matrix, for SNP genotyping. The Array Matrix uses a universal
    format that allows it to analyze any set of SNPs. We have also
    developed reagent kits based on GoldenGate assay protocols and
    the BeadArray Reader, a laser scanner, which is used to read our
    array products.


 


    Depending on throughput and automation requirements, our
    customers can select the system configuration to best meet their
    needs. For production-scale throughput, our BeadLab would be
    appropriate, and for moderate-scale throughput, our BeadStation
    would be selected. Our BeadLab includes our BeadArray Reader,
    combined with LIMS, standard operating procedures and analytical
    software and fluid handling robotics. This production-scale
    system was commercialized in late 2002 and when installed, this
    system can routinely produce millions of genotypes per day.


 


    The BeadStation, a system for performing moderate-scale
    genotyping designed to match the throughput requirements of
    individual research groups and core labs, was commercialized in
    late 2003. The BeadStation includes our BeadArray Reader and
    genotyping
    and/or gene
    expression analysis software. Multiple BeadStations can be
    configured to achieve different levels of desired throughput and
    are fully upgradeable to a full BeadLab through various steps
    that add automation, sample preparation equipment and LIMS
    capability.


 


    In 2003, we announced the availability of an assay set for
    genetic linkage analysis. This standard product has been
    deployed in our genotyping services operation and is also sold
    to customers who use our SNP genotyping systems. Genetic linkage
    analysis can help identify chromosomal regions with potential
    disease associations across a related set of samples.


 


    In 2005, we announced the introduction of the Major
    Histocompatability Complex (MHC) Panel Set, which allows the
    interrogation of a
    difficult-to-assay
    area of the genome, often associated with autoimmune diseases.
    In addition, we announced the introduction of Mouse-6 and
    MouseRef-8 Gene Expression BeadChip allowing the study of the
    levels of gene expression in mouse model.


 


    In 2005, we commenced shipping the Sentrix Human-1 Genotyping
    BeadChip for whole-genome genotyping. This BeadChip provides to
    scientists the ability to interrogate over 100,000 SNPs located
    in high-value genetic regions of the human genome. Also, in the
    fourth quarter of 2005, we began shipping the new Sentrix
    HumanHap300 Genotyping BeadChip to customers around the world.
    Using the Infinium assay, which enables us to select virtually
    any SNP in the genome, the HumanHap300 BeadChip allows analysis
    of more than 317,000 SNPs. We selected the SNPs for inclusion on
    the chip in collaboration with a consortium of scientists that
    are leaders in the genotyping field. We believe this
    product’s quality and performance support our expectation
    that it will become an important discovery tool for researchers
    seeking to understand the genetic basis of common yet complex
    diseases.


 


    In 2006, we introduced several new SNP genotyping products,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Sentrix HumanHap240S BeadChip.  The
    HumanHap240S BeadChip is a companion to our Sentrix HumanHap300
    BeadChip for genome-wide disease association studies that
    enables researchers to interrogate an additional 240,000 SNPs
    utilizing our Infinium assay. We began shipment of this product
    in the first quarter of 2006.



 


     
        • 

    
    Sentrix HumanHap550 BeadChip.  The HumanHap550
    BeadChip contains over 550,000 SNPs on a single microarray. We
    began shipment of this product in the second quarter of 2006.






    
    9



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Sentrix HumanHap650Y BeadChip.  The
    HumanHap650Y BeadChip contains over 650,000 SNP markers on a
    single microarray, which we believe provides the most
    comprehensive genomic coverage and highest data quality of any
    whole-genome genotyping product currently available. We began
    shipment of this product in the third quarter of 2006.



 


     
        • 

    
    Sentrix HumanHap550+ BeadChip.  The
    HumanHap550+ BeadChip allows customers to add up to 120,000
    custom SNP markers to supplement the standard content provided
    on the existing Sentrix HumanHap550 BeadChip, yielding up to
    670,000 markers for association studies.



 


     
        • 

    
    iSelect Infinium genotyping products.  The
    iSelect Infinium genotyping product line is used for focused
    content applications. Customers can create a custom array of up
    to 60,000 SNP markers per sample with 12 samples per chip. We
    began shipment of these products in the third quarter of 2006.



 


     
        • 

    
    HumanHap300-Duo and the Human Hap300-Duo+ Genotyping
    BeadChips.  The
    HumanHap300-Duo
    allows researchers to analyze two samples simultaneously, with
    over 634,000 total tag SNPs on a single BeadChip. The
    HumanHap300-Duo+ allows for the addition of 60,000 custom
    SNP loci to the base product, enabling researchers to enrich
    that product with SNPs of interest in any genomic region. We
    began shipment of the HumanHap300-Duo in the fourth quarter of
    2006.



 


     
        • 

    
    RatRef-12 Expression BeadChip.  The RatRef-12
    Expression BeadChip enables analysis of 12 samples in
    parallel on a single BeadChip. Content for this BeadChip is
    derived from the NCBI RefSeq database (Release 16), with
    over 22,000 rat transcripts represented. We began shipment of
    this product in the fourth quarter of 2006.





 


    Through an application called Copy Number Polymorphisms, the
    HumanHap family of BeadChips also provides high-resolution
    information on amplifications, deletions and loss of
    heterozygosity throughout the genome, abnormalities common in
    cancers and congenital diseases. In addition, we announced
    additional standard panels in the first quarter of 2006,
    including mouse linkage and cancer panels.


 



    Gene
    Expression Profiling


 


    With the addition of application specific accessory kits, our
    production-scale BeadLabs and BeadStations are capable of
    performing a growing number of applications, including gene
    expression profiling.


 


    In 2003, we introduced our focused set gene expression products
    on both the Array Matrix and BeadChip platforms. Our system
    includes a BeadArray Reader for imaging Array Matrices and
    BeadChips, a hybridization chamber and software for data
    extraction. In addition, we have developed standard gene
    expression products for each of the human, mouse and arabidopsis
    genomes with an additional panel that focuses on human
    toxicology.


 


    In 2005, we began shipment of the Human-6 and HumanRef-8
    Expression BeadChip products. Both products allow large-scale
    expression profiling of multiple samples on a single chip and
    are imaged using our BeadArray Reader. The Human-6 BeadChip is
    designed to analyze six discrete whole-human-genome samples on
    one chip, interrogating in each sample approximately 48,000
    transcripts from the estimated 30,000 genes in the human genome.
    The HumanRef-8 BeadChip product analyzes eight samples in
    parallel against 24,000 transcripts from the roughly 22,000
    genes represented in the consensus RefSeq database, a
    well-characterized whole-genome subset used broadly in genetic
    analysis. We expect that these gene expression BeadChips will
    dramatically reduce the cost of whole-genome expression
    analysis, allowing researchers to expand the scale and
    reproducibility of large-scale biological experimentation. In
    2006, we began shipment of the RatRef-12, which analyzes twelve
    samples in parallel against 22,226 transcripts from the roughly
    21,910 genes represented in the RefSeq database, release 16.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 



    Scanning
    Instrumentation


 


    The BeadArray Reader, an instrument we developed, is a key
    component of both our
    production-scale
    BeadLab and our benchtop BeadStation. This scanning equipment
    uses a laser to read the results of experiments that are
    captured on our arrays and was designed to be used in all areas
    of genetic analysis that use our Array Matrices and BeadChips.
    In the second quarter of 2006, we began shipment of the
    AutoLoader, which automates BeadChip loading and scanning and
    increases lab throughput. The Autoloader is designed to support
    up to two BeadArray Readers simultaneously for unattended
    operation.


 



    High-Throughput
    Oligo Synthesis


 


    We have put in place a
    state-of-the-art
    oligo manufacturing facility. This facility serves both the
    commercial needs under our collaboration with Invitrogen and our
    internal needs. In addition to their use to coat beads, these
    oligos are components of the reagent kits for our BeadArray
    products and are used for assay development. We manufacture
    oligos in a wide range of lengths and in several scales, with
    the ability to add many types of modifications. We offer a range
    of quality control options and have implemented a laboratory
    information management system to control much of the
    manufacturing process. In 2005, we stopped selling oligos
    directly into the market and began shipping oligos under our
    collaboration with Invitrogen.


 



    Our Collaborative
    Partners


 



    Invitrogen
    Corporation


 


    In December 2004, we entered into a strategic collaboration with
    Invitrogen. The goal of the collaboration is to combine our
    expertise in oligo manufacturing with the sales, marketing and
    distribution capabilities of Invitrogen. In connection with the
    collaboration, we have developed the next generation Oligator
    DNA synthesis technology. This technology includes both
    plate-and
    tube-based
    capabilities. Under the terms of the agreement, Invitrogen paid
    us an upfront non-refundable collaboration payment of
    $2.3 million in the first quarter of 2005. Additionally,
    upon the achievement of a certain milestone, Invitrogen was
    obligated to make a milestone payment of $1.1 million to
    us. During 2005, this milestone was achieved and the milestone
    payment was received. We used these funds to invest in our
    San Diego facility to enable the development and
    implementation of fourth-generation Oligator technology and to
    extend the technology into the larger market for tube-based
    oligo products. We began manufacturing and shipping the
    plate-based and certain tube-based oligo products under the
    collaboration in the third quarter of 2005. In addition, the
    agreement provides for the transfer of our Oligator technology
    into two Invitrogen facilities outside North America.
    Collaboration profit from the sale of collaboration products is
    divided equally between the two companies.



    
    11



Table of Contents



 



    deCODE
    genetics


 


    In May 2006, we executed a Joint Development and Licensing
    Agreement (the Development Agreement) with deCODE genetics, ehf.
    (deCODE). Pursuant to the Development Agreement, the parties
    agreed to collaborate exclusively to develop, validate and
    commercialize specific diagnostic tests for variants in genes
    involved in three disease-related pathways: the gene-encoding
    leukotriene A4 hydrolase, linked to heart attack; the
    gene-encoding transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2), linked to
    type 2 diabetes; and the gene-encoding BARD1, linked to breast
    cancer. With deCODE, we are developing diagnostic tests based on
    these variants for use on our BeadXpress system. Under the
    agreement, we will be responsible for the manufacturing,
    marketing and selling of the diagnostic products. The companies
    will share the development costs of these products and split the
    profits from sales of the diagnostics tests. The Development
    Agreement may be terminated as to a particular product under
    development if one party decides to discontinue funding the
    development of that product, and may be terminated in whole by
    either party if the other party commits an uncured material
    breach, files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent. Under a
    separate supply agreement, we installed instrumentation at
    deCODE that will enable deCODE to perform whole genome
    association studies on up to 100,000 samples using the our
    Sentrix HumanHap300 BeadChips and associated reagents.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We have an extensive patent portfolio, including, as of
    February 1, 2007, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to,
    106 issued U.S. patents and 149 pending U.S. patent
    applications, including five allowed applications that have not
    yet issued as patents, some of which derive from a common parent
    application. This portfolio includes patents acquired as part of
    the Solexa merger on January 26, 2007. Our issued patents,
    which are directed at various aspects of our array, assay, oligo
    synthesis, instrument and chemical detection technologies,
    expire between 2011 and 2024. We are seeking to extend the
    patents directed at the full range of our technologies. We have
    received or filed counterparts for many of these patents and
    applications in one or more foreign countries.


 


    We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright and
    trademark protection, as well as continuing technological
    innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain
    our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our
    ability to obtain patent protection for our products and
    processes, to preserve our copyrights and trade secrets, to
    operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third
    parties and to acquire licenses related to enabling technology
    or products.


 


    We are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license
    agreements with third parties, which grant us rights to use key
    aspects of our array and sequencing technologies, assay methods,
    chemical detection methods, reagent kits and scanning equipment.
    We have exclusive licenses from Tufts University to patents that
    are directed at our use of BeadArray technology. These patents
    were filed by Dr. David Walt, a member of our board of
    directors, the Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board and one
    of our founders. Our exclusive licenses expire with the
    termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between
    2010 and 2020. We also have additional nonexclusive licenses
    from various third parties for other components of our products.
    In all cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of
    the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without
    further obligation and require that we pay customary royalties
    while the agreement is in effect.


 



    Research and
    Development


 


    We have made substantial investments in research and development
    since our inception. We have assembled a team of skilled
    engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology,
    chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems,
    software, manufacturing and other related areas required to
    complete the development of our products. Our research and
    development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required
    to optimize our BeadArray and Oligator technologies and to
    support commercialization of the products and services derived
    from these technologies. As of December 31, 2006, we had a
    total of 144 employees engaged in research and development
    activities.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 


    Our research and development expenses for 2006, 2005 and 2004
    (inclusive of charges relating to stock-based compensation of
    $3.9 million, $0.1 million, and $0.3 million,
    respectively) were $33.4 million, $27.8 million and
    $21.5 million, respectively. Compared to 2006, we expect
    research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars
    and as a percentage of overall revenue during 2007 as we
    continue to expand our research and product development efforts,
    including research and development projects associated with our
    acquisition of Solexa.


 



    Marketing and
    Distribution


 


    Our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the
    life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving
    sequencing, SNP genotyping and gene expression profiling. These
    experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research,
    including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug
    discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics and
    agricultural research. Our potential customers include
    pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics and
    consumer products companies, as well as academic or private
    research centers. The genetic analysis market is relatively new
    and emerging and its size and speed of development will be
    ultimately driven by, among other items:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the ability of the research community to extract medically
    valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge
    to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment;



 


     
        • 

    
    the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput
    research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation
    required to study genetic variation and biological
    function; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the availability of government and private industry funding to
    perform the research required to extract medically relevant
    information from genomic analysis.





 


    We market and distribute our products directly to customers in
    North America, major European markets, Japan and Singapore. In
    each of these areas, we have dedicated sales, service and
    application support personnel responsible for expanding and
    managing their respective customer bases. In smaller markets in
    the Pacific Rim countries and Europe, we sell our products and
    provide services to customers through distributors that
    specialize in life science products. We expect to significantly
    increase our sales and distribution resources during 2007 and
    beyond as we launch a number of new products and expand the
    number of customers that can use our products.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We manufacture our array platforms, reagent kits, scanning
    equipment and oligos in-house. Our manufacturing capacity for
    BeadChips has increased approximately fourfold over the level as
    of January 1, 2006. We intend to continue to increase
    capacity as needed to manufacture our products in sufficient
    quantity to meet our business plan for 2007. We are focused on
    continuing to enhance the quality and manufacturing yield of our
    Array Matrices and BeadChips and are exploring ways to continue
    increasing the level of automation in the manufacturing process.
    In addition, we have implemented information management systems
    for many of our manufacturing and services operations to manage
    all aspects of material and sample use. We adhere to access and
    safety standards required by federal, state and local health
    ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling and disposal
    of hazardous substances.


 


    We intend to add capacity to manufacture Array Matrices and
    BeadChips throughout 2007. We currently depend upon outside
    suppliers for materials used in the manufacture of our products.
    We intend to continue, and may extend, the outsourcing of
    portions of our manufacturing process to subcontractors where we
    determine it is in our best commercial interests.



    
    13



Table of Contents



 



    Competition


 


    Although we expect that our BeadArray products and services will
    provide significant advantages over currently available products
    and services, we expect to encounter intense competition from
    other companies that offer products and services for the SNP
    genotyping, gene expression and sequencing markets. These
    include companies such as Affymetrix, Agilent, Amersham
    Biosciences (acquired by GE Corp. and now named GE
    Healthcare), Applera Corporation, Applied Biosystems, Beckman
    Coulter, Caliper Technologies, Luminex, Monogram Biosciences,
    NimbleGen, Perlegen Sciences, Roche Diagnostics in partnership
    with 454 Life Sciences, Sequenom and Third Wave Technologies.
    Some of these companies have or will have substantially greater
    financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger,
    more established marketing, sales, distribution and service
    organizations than we do. In addition, they may have greater
    name recognition than we do in the markets we need to address
    and in some cases a large installed base of systems. Each of
    these markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors
    to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase in the
    future. In order to effectively compete with these companies, we
    will need to demonstrate that our products have superior
    throughput, cost and accuracy advantages over the existing
    products. Rapid technological development may result in our
    products or technologies becoming obsolete. Products offered by
    us could be made obsolete either by less expensive or more
    effective products based on similar or other technologies.
    Although we believe that our technology and products will offer
    advantages that will enable us to compete effectively with these
    companies, we cannot assure you that we will be successful.


 



    Segment and
    Geographic Information


 


    We operate in one business segment, for the development,
    manufacture and commercialization of tools for genetic analysis.
    Our operations are treated as one segment as we only report
    operating results on an aggregate basis to our chief operating
    decision maker, our Chief Executive Officer.


 


    During 2006, $81.5 million, or 44%, of our total revenue
    came from shipments to customers outside the United States,
    compared to $28.0 million, or 38%, in 2005. Sales to
    territories outside of the United States are generally
    denominated in U.S. dollars. We expect that sales to
    international customers will continue to be an important and
    growing source of revenue. We have sales support resources in
    Western Europe and direct sales offices in Japan, Singapore and
    China. In addition, we have distributor relationships in various
    countries in the Pacific Rim region and Europe.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown
    significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products
    is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and
    highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as academic
    customers spend unused budget allocations before the end of the
    government’s fiscal year.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are dedicated to the protection of our employees and the
    environment. Our operations require the use of hazardous
    materials which subject us to a variety of federal, state and
    local environmental and safety laws and regulations. We believe
    we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and
    regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and
    fines should contamination of the environment or individual
    exposures to hazardous substances occur. In addition, we cannot
    predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the
    development of new laws and regulations, will affect our
    business operations or the cost of compliance.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had a total of 596 employees,
    73 of whom hold Ph.D. degrees. 43 of our employees with Ph.D.
    degrees are engaged in full-time research and development
    activities. None of our employees are represented by a labor
    union. We consider our employee relations to be positive.



    
    14



Table of Contents



 



    Executive
    Officers


 


    Our executive officers as of February 1, 2007, are as
    follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    Jay T. Flatley
    



 




    54
    




 


    President, Chief Executive Officer
    and Director
    





    Christian O. Henry
    



 




    38
    




 


    Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer
    





    Christian G. Cabou
    



 




    58
    




 


    Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary
    





    Arthur L. Holden
    



 




    54
    




 


    Senior Vice President of Corporate
    and Market Development
    





    Tristan B. Orpin
    



 




    40
    




 


    Senior Vice President of
    Commercial Operations
    





    John R. Stuelpnagel, DVM
    



 




    49
    




 


    Co-Founder, Senior Vice President
    and General Manager, Microarray Business, Chief Operating
    Officer and Director
    





    John West
    



 




    50
    




 


    Senior Vice President and General
    Manager of DNA Sequencing
    








 


    Jay Flatley is President and Chief Executive Officer of
    Illumina. Prior to his appointment in 1999, Mr. Flatley was
    the President and Chief Executive Officer of Molecular Dynamics,
    later acquired by Amersham Pharmacia Biotech in 1998 and now a
    part of GE Healthcare. Mr. Flatley, who was a founder and
    member of the board of directors for Molecular Dynamics, lead
    the company to its initial public offering (IPO) in 1993, in
    addition to helping the company develop and launch over 15 major
    instrumentation systems, including the world’s first
    capillary-based DNA sequencer. Prior to joining Molecular
    Dynamics, Mr. Flatley was Vice President of Engineering and
    Strategic Planning for Plexus Computers, a manufacturer of
    high-performance Unix super-microcomputers. Before his career at
    Plexus, Mr. Flatley was Executive Vice President for
    Manning Technologies and held various manufacturing positions
    while working for the Autolab division of Spectra Physics.
    Mr. Flatley received a bachelor of arts degree in economics
    from Claremont McKenna College (Claremont, CA) and a bachelor of
    science and master of science (summa cum laude) in industrial
    engineering from Stanford University (Stanford, CA). Currently,
    he serves as a member of the board of directors of both Illumina
    and GenVault Corporation.


 


    Christian Henry is Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of Illumina. Mr. Henry joined Illumina in
    June 2005 and is responsible for worldwide financial operations,
    controllership functions and facilities management.
    Mr. Henry served previously as the Chief Financial Officer
    for Tickets.com, a publicly traded, online ticket provider that
    was recently acquired by Major League Baseball Advanced Media,
    LP. Prior to that, Mr. Henry was Vice President, Finance
    and Corporate Controller of Affymetrix, Inc., a publicly traded
    life sciences company, where he oversaw accounting, planning,
    SEC and management reporting, and treasury and risk management.
    He previously held a similar position at Nektar Therapeutics
    (formerly Inhale Therapeutic Systems, Inc.). Mr. Henry
    received a bachelor of administration degree in biochemistry and
    cell biology from the University of California, San Diego,
    and a master of business administration degree from the
    University of California, Irvine. He is a certified public
    accountant.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 


    Christian Cabou is Senior Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Illumina. Mr. Cabou joined Illumina in May
    2006 and has worldwide responsibility for all legal and
    intellectual property matters, in addition to being responsible
    for the Company’s human resources function. Mr. Cabou
    is also Illumina’s Code of Ethics Compliance Officer.
    Before joining Illumina, Mr. Cabou spent five years as
    General Counsel for GE Global Research and, before that, was
    Senior Counsel of Global Intellectual Property for GE Medical
    Systems. Prior to his position at GE, Mr. Cabou spent seven
    years with the law firm Foley & Lardner where he was a
    partner. He had twenty years of experience in engineering design
    and management prior to his career in law and intellectual
    property. Mr. Cabou received a J.D. from Northwestern
    University’s School of Law (Chicago, IL.) in addition to a
    master of engineering management degree from Northwestern
    University. Mr. Cabou was awarded a MSEE (equivalent)
    degree from the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers
    (Paris, France) and a bachelor of science (equivalent) degree
    from the Lycée Technique d’Etat (Armentières,
    France).


 


    Arthur Holden is the Senior Vice President of Corporate
    and Business Development for Illumina. Mr. Holden joined
    Illumina in April 2006 and is responsible for leading business
    development and the development of relationships and
    partnerships with pharmaceutical firms, large-scale research
    consortia, and governmental bodies such as the National
    Institute of Health (NIH) and the Food and Drug Administration
    (FDA). Mr. Holden was most recently the principal founder,
    chairman and chief executive officer for First Genetic Trust.
    Prior to this he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the
    SNP Consortium, Ltd. and Chief Executive Officer and
    Director of Celsis International, PLC. From 1983 to 1994
    Mr. Holden held various executive positions at Baxter
    International. A winner of multiple awards, including the Laura
    Jackson Achievement Award for outstanding leadership in the
    healthcare industry, the Illinois Technology
    Innovation & Entrepreneurship award and the STRIVE
    Entrepreneurial award, Mr. Holden currently serves on a
    number of commercial and non-profit boards. He is chairman of
    the Pharmaceutical Biomedical Research and the Serious Adverse
    Event Consortia. In addition, he is Chairman of the Advisory
    Board for the Biotechnology Management Program at the J.L.
    Kellogg Graduate School of Management. He is a director of iBIO
    and the Illinois Technology Development Alliance.
    Mr. Holden earned a master of business administration
    degree from Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of
    Management (Chicago, IL) and a bachelor of science degree
    from Union College (Schenectady, NY).


 


    Tristan Orpin joined Illumina in December of 2002 in the
    role of Vice President of Worldwide Sales, and in January of
    2007 was promoted to the position of Senior Vice President of
    Commercial Operations. Before joining Illumina, Mr. Orpin
    was Director of Sales and Marketing for Sequenom from September
    1999 to August 2001. Later Mr. Orpin was elected Vice
    President of Sales and Marketing and held this position from
    August 2001 to November 2002. Prior to 2001, Mr. Orpin
    served in several senior sales and marketing positions at
    Bio-Rad Laboratories. Mr. Orpin received a bachelor of
    science in genetics and biochemistry with first class honors
    from the University of Melbourne (Melbourne, Australia).


 


    John Stuelpnagel, D.V.M., one of Illumina’s
    co-founders, is General Manager for Illumina’s Microarray
    business and Chief Operating Officer. He has served as the
    Company’s Chief Operating Officer since January 2005 and a
    Director since April 1998. From April 1998 to October 1999, he
    served as acting President and Chief Executive Officer and from
    April 1998 to April 2000 as acting Chief Financial Officer.
    Between October 1999 and January 2005, Dr. Stuelpnagel was
    Vice President of Business Development and later as Senior Vice
    President of Operations. While founding Illumina,
    Dr. Stuelpnagel was an associate with CW Group, a venture
    capital firm. Dr. Stuelpnagel received both a bachelor of
    science degree in biochemistry and a doctorate degree in
    veterinary medicine from the University of California (Davis,
    CA), and went on to receive a master of business administration
    degree from the University of California, Los Angeles.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    John West is Senior Vice President and General Manager
    for Illumina’s DNA Sequencing business. Mr. West
    joined Illumina from Solexa, where he was Chief Executive
    Officer. Before Solexa, he was Vice President of DNA Platforms
    for Applied Biosystems, Inc. (AB) and was responsible for the
    company’s instrument and reagent products for DNA
    sequencing, gene expression, genotyping, PCR, and DNA synthesis.
    His group developed and launched the instruments that now
    populate virtually all genome sequencing centers worldwide. He
    also had business responsibility for AB’s first gene
    expression array system, for its real-time PCR instruments, and
    for its microfluidic PCR products. Previously, Mr. West
    held a number of senior positions, including President of
    Princeton Instruments, Inc., President and Founder of
    BioAutomation, Inc. and Marketing Director for Microfluidics at
    Microcosm Technologies, Inc. During Mr. West’s term at
    Princeton Instruments, the company introduced the first low
    light imaging system for single molecule
    fluorescence — and Solexa, at that time a startup,
    bought one of the first units. Mr. West received both
    bachelor of science and master of science degrees in engineering
    from MIT, and a master of business administration in finance
    from the Wharton School of Business at the University of
    Pennsylvania.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    Our business is subject to various risks, including those
    described below. In addition to the other information included
    in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following issues could adversely affect our operating
    results or our stock price.


 



    Litigation or
    other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property
    infringement could require us to spend significant time and
    money and could prevent us from selling our products or services
    or impact our stock price.


 


    Our commercial success depends in part on our non-infringement
    of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and on our
    ability to protect our own intellectual property. As we have
    previously disclosed, Affymetrix, Inc. filed a complaint against
    us in July 2004, alleging infringement of six of its patents.


 


    On June 30, 2006, the court dismissed a patent Affymetrix
    had sought to withdraw from its suit leaving five patents being
    asserted against us. On August 16, 2006, the court issued a
    ruling on the claim construction hearing that it had held on
    April 20, 2006 as part of this litigation. We believe the
    court’s mixed ruling interpreted certain claim terms in our
    favor, and did not adversely impact our defenses and
    counterclaims which are still pending. At the request of both
    parties, trial has been rescheduled to March 5, 2007 from
    October 16, 2006. A pre-trial conference was held on
    February 8, 2007 during which the court established a
    multi-phase trial structure with the first phase of the trial to
    begin on March 5, 2007, and addressed related issues. Any
    adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling throughout
    these proceedings may have an adverse impact on our stock price,
    and such impact may be disproportionate to the actual import of
    the ruling itself.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 


    Third parties, including Affymetrix, have asserted or may assert
    that we are employing their proprietary technology without
    authorization. As we enter new markets, we expect that
    competitors will likely assert that our products infringe their
    intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to
    impede our successful entry into those markets. In addition,
    third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain
    patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies
    infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and
    divert the attention of our management and technical personnel
    in defending ourselves against any of these claims. Furthermore,
    parties making claims against us may be able to obtain
    injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our
    ability to develop further, commercialize and sell products, and
    could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In
    the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we
    may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses
    from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain
    products. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a
    reasonable cost, if at all. We could therefore incur substantial
    costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from
    third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins.
    In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions
    while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products.
    Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these
    licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from
    commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of
    our products could materially affect our ability to grow and
    maintain profitability.


 



    We expect
    intense competition in our target markets, which could render
    our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or
    substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. This
    would limit our ability to compete and maintain profitability.
    If we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new
    products, our revenue may not grow as intended.


 


    We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture
    and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function and other applications using technologies
    such as two-dimensional electrophoresis, capillary
    electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry,
    microfluidics, nanotechnology, next-generation DNA sequencing
    and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays.
    We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the
    future as existing companies develop new or improved products
    and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. The
    markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing
    technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer
    needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and
    strong price competition. For example, prices per data point for
    genotyping have fallen significantly over the last two years and
    we anticipate that prices will continue to fall. One or more of
    our competitors may render our technology obsolete or
    uneconomical. Some of our competitors have greater financial and
    personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established
    customer base and more experience in research and development
    than we do. Furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical
    companies, which are our potential customers and strategic
    partners, could develop competing products. If we are unable to
    develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new
    product offerings, our business, financial condition and results
    of operations will suffer.


 



    Any inability
    to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm
    our competitive position.


 


    Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents
    and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in
    the United States and other countries. If we do not protect our
    intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use
    our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage.
    The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary
    rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and
    many companies have encountered significant challenges in
    protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These challenges can
    be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the
    establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights
    abroad.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 


    The patent positions of companies developing tools for the life
    sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent
    position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and
    factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary
    rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent
    that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and
    enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade
    secrets. We intend to apply for patents covering our
    technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. However, our
    patent applications may be challenged and may not result in
    issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after
    they are issued. Questions as to inventorship may also arise.
    For example, in June 2005, a former employee filed a complaint
    against us, claiming he is entitled to be named as joint
    inventor of certain of our U.S. patents and pending
    U.S. and foreign patent applications, and seeking a
    judgment that the related patents and applications are
    unenforceable. Any finding that our patents and applications are
    unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from
    practicing the related technology, and a finding that others
    have inventorship rights to our patents and applications could
    require us to obtain certain rights to practice related
    technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if
    at all.


 


    In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we
    obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from
    practicing our technologies or from developing competing
    products. There also is risk that others may independently
    develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our
    patented technologies. Also, our patents may fail to provide us
    with any competitive advantage. We may need to initiate
    additional lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or
    litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive
    and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual
    property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the
    marketplace. Furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the
    attention of our management and technical personnel.


 


    We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential
    and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to
    protect our confidential information. These measures, however,
    may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or
    other confidential information. Among other things, we seek to
    protect our trade secrets and confidential information by
    entering into confidentiality agreements with employees,
    collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees,
    collaborators or consultants may still disclose our confidential
    information, and we may not otherwise be able to effectively
    protect our trade secrets. Accordingly, others may gain access
    to our confidential information, or may independently develop
    substantially equivalent information or techniques.


 



    If we are
    unable to develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing
    capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products
    in a timely manner, or at all.


 


    We currently possess limited facilities capable of manufacturing
    our principle products and services for both sale to our
    customers and internal use. If a natural disaster were to
    significantly damage our facility or if other events were to
    cause our operations to fail, these events could prevent us from
    developing and manufacturing our products and services. Also,
    many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are
    controlled by our custom-designed Laboratory Information
    Management System (LIMS). Additionally, as part of the decoding
    step in our array manufacturing process, we record several
    images of each array to identify what bead is in each location
    on the array and to validate each bead in the array. This
    requires significant network and storage infrastructure. If
    either our LIMS system or our networks or storage infrastructure
    were to fail for an extended period of time, it would adversely
    impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis
    and may prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any
    given period.



    
    19



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    manufacturing capacity may limit our ability to sell our
    products.


 


    We continue to ramp up our capacity to meet our anticipated
    demand for our products. Although we have significantly
    increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe that we have
    sufficient plans in place to ensure we have adequate capacity to
    meet our business plan in 2007 and 2008, there are uncertainties
    inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may
    not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. For
    example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as
    we increase production rates at our manufacturing facility and
    launch new products. As a result, we may experience difficulties
    in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which
    case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product
    introductions, and demand for our products could decline.
    Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in
    manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced
    production yields. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing
    products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or
    previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that
    could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability
    to launch or sell these products, or to produce them
    economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance
    levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by
    customers.


 



    If we are
    unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture
    components of our products, we may not be able to launch or
    support our products in a timely manner, or at
    all.


 


    The nature of our products requires customized components that
    currently are available from a limited number of sources. For
    example, we currently obtain the fiber optic bundles and
    BeadChip slides included in our products from single vendors. If
    we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other
    product components, we will be unable to meet demand for our
    products. We may need to enter into contractual relationships
    with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of
    our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we
    cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely
    basis, for sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable
    terms. Accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain
    reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable
    costs.


 



    We may
    encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions that could
    adversely affect our business.


 


    We acquired Solexa in January 2007 and CyVera Corporation in
    April 2005 and we may in the future acquire technology, products
    or businesses related to our current or future business. We have
    limited experience in acquisition activities and may have to
    devote substantial time and resources in order to complete
    acquisitions. Further, these potential acquisitions entail
    risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business.
    For example, we may not be able to successfully integrate a
    company’s operations, technologies, products and services,
    information systems and personnel into our business. An
    acquisition may further strain our existing financial and
    managerial resources, and divert management’s attention
    away from our other business concerns. In connection with these
    acquisitions, we assumed certain liabilities and hired certain
    employees, which is expected to continue to result in an
    increase in our research and development expenses and capital
    expenditures. There may also be unanticipated costs and
    liabilities associated with an acquisition that could adversely
    affect our operating results. To finance any acquisitions, we
    may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration,
    which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
    Additionally, an acquisition may have a substantial negative
    impact on near-term expected financial results.


 


    The success of the Solexa merger will depend, in part, on our
    ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth
    opportunities and cost savings from integrating Solexa’s
    businesses with our businesses. Our success in realizing these
    benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the
    successful integration of the operations of Solexa. The
    integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly
    and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the
    operations of the companies include, among other factors:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    lost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of
    either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the
    combined company;






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    complexities associated with managing the combined businesses;



 


     
        • 

    
    integrating personnel from diverse corporate cultures while
    maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products
    and customer service;



 


     
        • 

    
    coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and
    facilities;



 


     
        • 

    
    potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses
    or delays associated with the merger; and



 


     
        • 

    
    performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a
    result of the diversion of management’s attention to the
    merger.





 


    If we are unable to successfully combine the businesses in a
    manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost
    savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the
    merger, such anticipated benefits of the merger may not be
    realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than
    expected. In addition, we and Solexa have operated and will
    continue to operate independently. It is possible that the
    integration process could result in the loss of key employees,
    diversion of each company’s management’s attention,
    the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in,
    each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in
    standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could
    adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with
    customers and employees or our ability to achieve the
    anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings
    or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results
    of the combined company.


 



    The combined
    company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the
    merger as a result of our failure to achieve anticipated revenue
    growth following the merger.


 


    Solexa’s business faces significant risks. These risks
    include the fact that Solexa’s technology is at the
    development stage and, although Solexa has accepted orders for
    its Genome Analyzer and has shipped and installed those systems,
    Solexa has not completed performance specifications for those
    systems and has not invoiced customers for them. There can be no
    assurance it will be able to do so. These risks also include
    those described under the caption “Risk Factors” of
    Solexa’s Quarterly Report on
    Form 10-Q
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the
    quarterly period ended September 30, 2006, and may include
    additional risks of which we are not currently aware or which we
    currently do not believe are material. If any of the events or
    circumstances underlying these risks actually occur,
    Solexa’s business, financial condition or results of
    operations could be harmed and, as a result, Solexa may, among
    other things, fail to achieve the anticipated revenue growth
    following the merger.


 



    The merger
    will cause dilution of Illumina’s earnings per
    share.


 


    The merger and the transactions contemplated by the merger
    agreement are expected to have a dilutive effect on our earnings
    per share at least through 2007 due to losses of Solexa, the
    additional shares of Illumina common stock that were issued in
    the merger, the transaction and integration-related costs and
    other factors such as the potential failure to realize any
    benefit from synergies anticipated in the merger. These factors
    could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.



    
    21



Table of Contents



 



    Solexa had a
    material weakness in its internal controls over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2005. If additional material
    weaknesses are identified in the future, current and potential
    stockholders could lose confidence in our consolidated financial
    reporting, which could harm our business and the trading of our
    common stock.


 


    As of December 31, 2005, Solexa did not maintain effective
    control over the application of GAAP related to the financial
    reporting process. This control deficiency resulted in numerous
    adjustments being required to bring Solexa’s financial
    statements into compliance with GAAP. Additionally, this
    deficiency could have resulted in material misstatement of the
    annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would
    not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, Solexa’s
    management determined that this control deficiency constituted a
    material weakness. Because of this material weakness,
    Solexa’s management concluded that, as of December 31,
    2005, it did not maintain effective internal control over
    financial reporting based on those criteria. Should we, or our
    independent registered public accounting firm, determine in
    future fiscal periods that there are material weaknesses in our
    consolidated internal controls over financial reporting
    (including Solexa), the reliability of our financial reports may
    be impacted, and our results of operations or financial
    condition may be harmed and the price of our common stock may
    decline.


 



    We expect that
    our results of operations will fluctuate. This fluctuation could
    cause our stock price to decline.


 


    Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of
    sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact
    of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research
    projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending
    levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable
    factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the
    difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for
    our products and services, we may experience
    quarter-to-quarter
    fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a
    sequential decline in quarterly revenue. A large portion of our
    expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for
    facilities, equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect
    operating expenses to continue to increase significantly.
    Accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not
    be able to maintain annual profitability. Any significant delays
    in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales
    trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other
    factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future
    revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly
    revenue. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue
    and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our
    operating results are not a good indication of our future
    performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet
    the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our
    stock price could decline.


 



    We have a
    limited history of commercial sales of systems and consumable
    products, and our success depends on our ability to develop
    commercially successful products and on market acceptance of our
    new and relatively unproven technologies.


 


    We may not possess all of the resources, capability and
    intellectual property necessary to develop and commercialize all
    the products or services that may result from our technologies.
    Sales of our genotyping and gene expression systems only began
    in 2003, and some of our other technologies are in the early
    stages of commercialization or are still in development. You
    should evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and
    complexities affecting similarly situated companies developing
    tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. We
    must conduct a substantial amount of additional research and
    development before some of our products will be ready for sale,
    and we currently have fewer resources available for research and
    development activities than some of our competitors. We may not
    be able to develop or launch new products in a timely manner, or
    at all, or they may not meet customer requirements or be of
    sufficient quality or at a price that enables us to compete
    effectively in the marketplace. Problems frequently encountered
    in connection with the development or early commercialization of
    products and services using new and relatively unproven
    technologies might limit our ability to develop and successfully
    commercialize these products and services. In addition, we may
    need to enter into agreements to obtain intellectual property
    necessary to commercialize some of our products or services,
    which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all.



    
    22



Table of Contents



 


    Historically, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies have
    analyzed genetic variation and biological function using a
    variety of technologies. In order to be successful, our products
    must meet the commercial requirements of the life sciences and
    pharmaceutical industries as tools for the large-scale analysis
    of genetic variation and biological function.


 


    Market acceptance will depend on many factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to demonstrate to potential customers the benefits
    and cost effectiveness of our products and services relative to
    others available in the market;



 


     
        • 

    
    the extent and effectiveness of our efforts to market, sell and
    distribute our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities
    with acceptable quality and reliability and at an acceptable
    cost;



 


     
        • 

    
    the willingness and ability of customers to adopt new
    technologies requiring capital investments; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the extended time lag and sales expenses involved between the
    time a potential customer is contacted on a possible sale of our
    products and services and the time the sale is consummated or
    rejected by the customer.





 



    Our sales,
    marketing and technical support organization may limit our
    ability to sell our products.


 


    We currently have fewer resources available for sales and
    marketing and technical support services compared to some of our
    primary competitors. In order to effectively commercialize our
    sequencing, genotyping and gene expression systems and other
    products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing
    and technical support staff both domestically and
    internationally. We may not be successful in establishing or
    maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution
    arrangements to market our products and services. In addition,
    we compete primarily with much larger companies that have larger
    sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base
    of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and
    marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market
    acceptance of our products required to support continued growth
    of our business.


 



    We have only
    recently achieved annual operating profitability.


 


    Prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our
    inception. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit
    was $104.6 million. Our ability to sustain annual
    profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if
    any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses.
    SFAS No. 123R is also likely to adversely affect our
    future profitability. We expect to continue incurring
    significant expenses related to research and development, sales
    and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the
    continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. In
    addition, we expect that our research and development and
    selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in
    the future as a result of the development and launch of new
    products. Even if we maintain profitability, we may not be able
    to increase profitability on a quarterly basis.


 



    We may
    encounter difficulties in managing our growth. These
    difficulties could impair our profitability.


 


    We have experienced, and we may expect to continue to experience
    rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating
    plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital
    resources. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively,
    our profitability could suffer. Our ability to manage our
    operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to
    expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and
    management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to
    attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If
    we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our
    manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or
    timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing
    systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available
    the products required to successfully commercialize our
    technology. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of
    talented employees will further strain our human resources and
    could impede our growth.



    
    23



Table of Contents



 



    Our effective
    tax rate may vary significantly.


 


    Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by
    various internal and external factors. These factors, include
    but are not limited to, earnings being lower than anticipated in
    countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than
    anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates;
    changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities; or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof;
    changes in tax rates, future levels of research and development
    spending, and changes in overall levels of pretax earnings. Any
    new interpretative guidance relating to accounting for uncertain
    tax positions could adversely affect our tax provision.


 



    If we lose our
    key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional
    personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals.


 


    We are highly dependent on our management and scientific
    personnel, including Jay Flatley, our president and chief
    executive officer, John Stuelpnagel, our senior vice president
    and chief operating officer and John West, our senior vice
    president and general manager of DNA sequencing . The loss of
    their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our
    business objectives. We will need to hire additional qualified
    personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry,
    biological information processing, sales, marketing and
    technical support. We compete for qualified management and
    scientific personnel with other life science companies,
    universities and research institutions, particularly those
    focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals,
    particularly in the San Diego area, is intense, and the
    turnover rate can be high. Failure to attract and retain
    management and scientific personnel would prevent us from
    pursuing collaborations or developing our products or
    technologies.


 


    Our planned activities will require additional expertise in
    specific industries and areas applicable to the products
    developed through our technologies, including the life sciences
    and healthcare industries. Thus, we will need to add new
    personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of
    existing management. The failure to do so could impair the
    growth of our business.


 



    A significant
    portion of our sales are to international
    customers.


 


    Approximately 44% and 38% of our revenue for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively,
    was derived from shipments to customers outside the United
    States. We intend to continue to expand our international
    presence and export sales to international customers and we
    expect the total amount of
    non-U.S. sales
    to continue to grow. Export sales entail a variety of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange fluctuations;



 


     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of
    foreign countries into which we import our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other
    trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery
    delays; and



 


     
        • 

    
    significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety
    of foreign laws.





 


    In addition, sales to international customers typically result
    in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts
    receivable collection. We are also subject to general
    geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic
    instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One
    or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and operating results.



    
    24



Table of Contents



 



    Our success
    depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for
    analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function.


 


    We design our products primarily for applications in the life
    sciences and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our
    technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data
    and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are
    initially focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation
    and biological function, namely SNP genotyping and gene
    expression profiling. Both of these markets are new and
    emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate,
    or reach their full potential. Other methods of analysis of
    genetic variation and biological function may emerge and
    displace the methods we are developing. Also, researchers may
    not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically
    valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation
    and biological function. In addition, factors affecting research
    and development spending generally, such as changes in the
    regulatory environment affecting life sciences and
    pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs
    that provide funding to companies and research institutions,
    could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available
    or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner,
    demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we
    expect, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain annual
    profitability.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B