Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” in this Annual Report, that may cause our
    actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements
    to be materially different from any future results, levels or
    activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by
    these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the
    expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are
    reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of
    activity, performance or achievements. Accordingly, you should
    not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak
    only as of the date of this Annual Report. We are not under any
    duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the
    date we file this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or to conform these statements to actual results, unless
    required by law. You should, however, review the factors and
    risks we describe in the reports we file from time to time with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission.


 


    Illumina®,
    Array of
    Arraystm,
    BeadArraytm,
    BeadXpresstm,
    CSPro®,
    DASL®,
    GoldenGate®,
    Infinium®,
    IntelliHyb®,
    iSelect®,
    Making Sense Out of
    Life®,
    Oligator®,
    Sentrix®,
    Solexa®,
    and
    VeraCodetm
    are our trademarks. This report also contains brand names,
    trademarks or service marks of companies other than Illumina,
    and these brand names, trademarks and service marks are the
    property of their respective holders.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    on our website, www.illumina.com. The information on our website
    is not incorporated by reference into this report. Such reports
    are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after
    filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at
    www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information
    statements, and other information regarding issuers that
    electronically file with the SEC.


 



    Overview


 


    We are a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of
    integrated systems for the large scale analysis of genetic
    variation and biological function. Using our proprietary
    technologies, we provide a comprehensive line of products and
    services that currently serve the sequencing, genotyping and
    gene expression markets. In the future, we expect to enter the
    market for molecular diagnostics. Our customers include leading
    genomic research centers, pharmaceutical companies, academic
    institutions, clinical research organizations and biotechnology
    companies. Our tools provide researchers around the world with
    the performance, throughput, cost effectiveness and flexibility
    necessary to perform the billions of genetic tests needed to
    extract valuable medical information from advances in genomics
    and proteomics. We believe this information will enable
    researchers to correlate genetic variation and biological
    function, which will enhance drug discovery and clinical
    research, allow diseases to be detected earlier and permit
    better choices of drugs for individual patients.


 


    In April 2005, we completed the acquisition of CyVera
    Corporation (Cyvera). The aggregate consideration for the
    transaction was $17.5 million, consisting of approximately
    1.5 million shares of our common stock and payment of
    approximately $2.3 million of CyVera’s liabilities at
    the closing.



    
    2



Table of Contents




    On January 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of
    Solexa, Inc. (Solexa) for approximately 13.1 million shares
    of our common stock. Solexa develops and commercializes genetic
    analysis technologies used to perform a range of analyses,
    including whole genome resequencing, gene expression analysis
    and small RNA analysis. We believe our combined company is the
    only company with genome-scale technology for genotyping, gene
    expression and sequencing, the three cornerstones of modern
    genetic analysis.


 


    We were incorporated in California in April 1998. We
    reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000. Our principal executive
    offices are located at 9885 Towne Centre Drive, San Diego,
    California 92121. Our telephone number is
    (858) 202-4500.


 



    Industry
    Background


 



    Genetic
    Variation and Biological Function


 


    Every person inherits two copies of each gene, one from each
    parent. The two copies of each gene may be identical, or they
    may be different. These differences are referred to as genetic
    variation. Examples of the physical consequences of genetic
    variation include differences in eye and hair color. Genetic
    variation can also have important medical consequences. Genetic
    variation affects disease susceptibility, including
    predisposition to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and
    Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, genetic variation may
    cause people to respond differently to the same drug treatment.
    Some people may respond well, others may not respond at all, and
    still others may experience adverse side effects. A common form
    of genetic variation is a single-nucleotide polymorphism, or
    SNP. A SNP is a variation in a single position in a DNA
    sequence. It is estimated that the human genome contains over
    nine million SNPs.


 


    While in some cases a single SNP will be responsible for
    medically important effects, it is now believed that
    combinations of SNPs may contribute to the development of most
    major diseases. Since there are millions of SNPs, it is
    important to investigate many representative, well-chosen SNPs
    simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable
    information.


 


    Another contributor to disease and dysfunction is the over- or
    under-expression of genes within an organism’s cells. A
    very complex network of genes interacts to maintain health in
    complex organisms. The challenge for scientists is to delineate
    the associated genes’ expression patterns and their
    relationship to disease. Until recently, this problem was
    addressed by investigating effects on a
    gene-by-gene
    basis. This is time consuming, and difficulties exist when
    several pathways cannot be observed or “controlled” at
    the same time. With the advent of microarray technology,
    thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time.


 



    SNP
    Genotyping


 


    SNP genotyping is the process of determining which base (A, C, G
    or T) is present at a particular site in the genome within
    an individual or other organism. The use of SNP genotyping to
    obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual SNP
    or a collection of SNPs, and to apply that information to
    clinical trials and diagnostic testing, requires the analysis of
    millions of SNP genotypes and the testing of large populations
    for each disease. For example, a single large clinical trial
    could involve genotyping 1,000,000 SNPs per patient in
    1,000 patients, thus requiring 1 billion assays. Using
    previously available technologies, this scale of SNP genotyping
    was both impractical and prohibitively expensive.


 


    Large-scale SNP genotyping can be used in a variety of ways,
    including studies designed to understand the genetic
    contributions to disease (disease association studies),
    genomics-based drug development, clinical trial analysis,
    disease predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. SNP
    genotyping can also be used outside of healthcare, for example
    in the development of plants and animals with desirable
    commercial characteristics. These markets will require billions
    of SNP genotyping assays annually.



    
    3



Table of Contents





    Gene
    Expression Profiling


 


    Gene expression profiling is the process of determining which
    genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is
    accomplished by measuring mRNA, the intermediary messenger
    between genes (DNA) and proteins. Variation in gene expression
    can cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease
    or predisposition to disease. By comparing gene expression
    patterns between cells from different environments, such as
    normal tissue compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or
    absence of a drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a
    role in these processes can be identified. Studies of this type,
    often used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and
    preferably tens of thousands, of mRNAs in large numbers of
    samples. Once a smaller set of genes of interest has been
    identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are
    expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example,
    within a clinical trial.


 


    As gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases,
    gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important
    diagnostic tool. Diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is
    anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the
    sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more
    cost-effective technologies.


 



    Sequencing


 


    DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of bases
    (A, C, G or T) in a DNA sample, which can be further
    divided into de novo sequencing, re-sequencing, and tag
    sequencing. In de novo sequencing, the goal is to determine the
    sequence of a representative sample from a species never before
    sequenced. Understanding the similarities and differences in DNA
    sequence between many species can help to improve our
    understanding of the function of the structures found in the DNA.


 


    In re-sequencing, the sequence of samples from a given species
    is determined generally comparing each to a standard or
    reference sequence. This is an extremely comprehensive form of
    genotyping, in which every single base is characterized for
    possible mutations. In tag sequencing, short sequences, each
    representative of a larger molecule or genomic location, are
    detected and counted. In these applications, the number of times
    that each tag is seen provides quantification of an underlying
    biological process. As an example, in digital gene expression,
    one tag sequence may exist for each gene, and the number of
    copies of this tag which are detected in an experiment is a
    measure of how actively that gene is being expressed in the
    tissue sample being analyzed.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Our
    Technologies


 



    BeadArray
    Technology


 


    We have developed a proprietary array technology that enables
    the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function. Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads
    and a substrate in a simple proprietary manufacturing process to
    produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously. Our
    BeadArray technology provides a unique combination of high
    throughput, cost effectiveness, and flexibility. We achieve high
    throughput with a high density of test sites per array and we
    are able to format arrays either in a pattern arranged to match
    the wells of standard microtiter plates or in various
    configurations in the format of standard microscope slides. We
    seek to maximize cost effectiveness by reducing consumption of
    expensive reagents and valuable samples, and through the low
    manufacturing costs associated with our technologies. Our
    ability to vary the size, shape and format of the well patterns
    and to create specific bead pools, or sensors, for different
    applications provides the flexibility to address multiple
    markets and market segments. We believe that these features have
    enabled our BeadArray technology to become a leading platform
    for the emerging high-growth market of SNP genotyping and expect
    they will enable us to become a key player in the gene
    expression market.


 


    Our proprietary BeadArray technology combines microwells etched
    into a substrate and specially prepared beads that self-assemble
    into an array. We have deployed our BeadArray technology in two
    different array formats, the Array Matrix and the BeadChip. Our
    first bead-based product was the Array Matrix which incorporates
    fiber optic bundles. The fiber optic bundles, which we cut into
    lengths of less than one inch, are manufactured to our
    specifications. Each bundle is comprised of approximately 50,000
    individual fibers and 96 of these bundles are placed into an
    aluminum plate, which forms an Array Matrix. BeadChips are
    fabricated in microscope slide-shaped sizes with varying numbers
    of sample sites per slide. Both formats are chemically etched to
    create tens to hundreds of thousands of wells for each sample
    site.


 


    In a separate process, we create sensors by affixing a specific
    type of molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in
    a batch. We make different batches of beads, with the beads in a
    given batch coated with one particular type of molecule. The
    particular molecules on a bead define that bead’s function
    as a sensor. For example, we create a batch of SNP sensors by
    attaching a particular DNA sequence, or oligo, to each bead in
    the batch. We combine batches of coated beads to form a pool
    specific to the type of array we intend to create. A bead pool
    one milliliter in volume contains sufficient beads to produce
    thousands of arrays.


 


    To form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact
    with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the
    wells, one bead per well. The tens of thousands of beads in the
    wells comprise our individual arrays. Because the beads assemble
    randomly into the wells, we perform a final procedure called
    ’decoding’ in order to determine which bead type
    occupies which well in the array. We employ several proprietary
    methods for decoding, a process that requires only a few steps
    to identify all the beads in the array. One beneficial
    by-product of the decoding process is a validation of each bead
    in the array. This quality control test characterizes the
    performance of each bead and can identify and eliminate use of
    any empty wells. We ensure that each bead type on the array is
    sufficiently represented by including multiple copies of each
    bead type. Multiple bead type copies improve the reliability and
    accuracy of the resulting data by allowing statistical
    processing of the results of identical beads. We believe we are
    the only microarray company to provide this level of quality
    control in the industry.


 


    An experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as DNA
    from a patient, and introducing it to the array. The design
    features of our Array Matrix allow it to be simply dipped into a
    solution containing the sample, whereas our BeadChip allows
    processing of samples on a slide-sized platform. The molecules
    in the sample bind to their matching molecules on the coated
    bead. These molecules in either the sample or on the bead are
    labeled with a fluorescent dye either before or after the
    binding. The BeadArray Reader detects the fluorescent dye by
    shining a laser on the fiber optic bundle or on the BeadChip.
    This allows the detection of the molecules resulting in a
    quantitative analysis of the sample.



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Sequencing
    Technology


 


    Our DNA sequencing technology, acquired as part of the Solexa
    merger that was completed on January 26, 2007, is based on
    the use of our
    sequencing-by-synthesis
    (SBS) biochemistry. In SBS, single stranded DNA is extended from
    a priming site, one base at a time, using reversible terminator
    nucleotides. These are DNA bases which can be added to a growing
    second strand, but which initially cannot be further extended.
    This means that at each cycle of the chemistry, only one base
    can be added. Each base which is added includes a fluorescent
    label which is specific to the particular base. Thus following
    incorporation, the fluorescence can be imaged, its color
    determined, and the base itself can be inferred. Once this is
    done, an additional step removes both the fluorescence and the
    block that had prevented further extension of the second strand.
    This allows another base to be added, and the cycle can be
    repeated. We have shown data in which this cycle is repeated up
    to 50 times, thus determining DNA sequences which are up to 50
    bases long. This may well increase in the future as we further
    develop this technology. The reversible terminator bases which
    we use are novel synthetic molecules which we manufacture. They
    are not well incorporated by naturally occurring polymerases, so
    we have also developed proprietary enzymes for this purpose.
    Both the nucleotides and enzymes are the subject of significant
    intellectual property.


 


    In our DNA sequencing systems, we apply the SBS biochemistry on
    microscopic islands of DNA. These are called DNA clusters. Each
    cluster starts as a single DNA molecule, typically a few hundred
    bases long, attached to the inside surface of a flow cell. We
    then use a proprietary amplification biochemistry to create
    copies of each starting molecule. As the copies are made, they
    are covalently linked to the surface, so they cannot diffuse
    away. After a number of cycles of amplification, each cluster
    might have 500 to 1,000 copies of the original starting
    molecule, but still be only about a micron
    (one-millionth
    of a meter) in diameter. By making so many copies, the
    fluorescent signal from each cluster is significantly increased.
    Because the clusters are so small though, tens of millions of
    clusters can be independently formed inside a single flow cell.
    This large number of clusters can then be sequenced
    simultaneously, by alternate cycles of SBS biochemistry and
    electronic imaging.


 



    VeraCode
    Technology


 


    The BeadArray technology is most effective in applications which
    require mid- to high levels of multiplexing from low to high
    levels of throughput. Multiplexing refers to the number of
    individual pieces of information that are simultaneously
    extracted from one sample. We believe the molecular diagnostics
    market will require systems which are extremely high throughput
    and cost effective in the mid- to low-multiplex range. To
    address this market, we acquired the VeraCode technology through
    our acquisition of CyVera Corporation in April 2005. Based on
    digitally encoded microbeads, VeraCode enables low-cost
    multiplexing from 1 to 384-plex in a single well. We began
    shipping the BeadXpress System, which uses the VeraCode
    technology, during the first quarter of 2007, along with several
    assays for the system. We believe that this system enables lower
    multiplex genotyping, gene expression and protein based assays.
    In the research market, we expect our customers to utilize our
    BeadArray technology for their higher multiplex projects and
    then move to our BeadXpress system for their lower multiplex
    projects utilizing the same assays.


 



    Oligator
    Technology


 


    Genomic applications require many different short pieces of DNA
    that can be made synthetically, called oligos. We have developed
    our proprietary Oligator technology for the parallel synthesis
    of many different oligos to meet the requirements of large-scale
    genomics applications. We believe that our Oligator technology
    is substantially more cost effective and provides significantly
    higher throughput than available commercial alternatives. Our
    synthesis machines are computer controlled and utilize many
    robotic processes to minimize the amount of labor used in the
    manufacturing process. In 2005, we implemented our
    fourth-generation Oligator technology, which is capable of
    manufacturing over 13,000 different oligos per run. This was an
    improvement over prior generations of technology where we could
    only manufacture approximately 3,000 oligos per run. This
    increase in scale was necessary to enable us to



    
    6



Table of Contents




    support the manufacture of oligos under our collaboration with
    Invitrogen as well as to support our increased internal need for
    oligos, a critical component of our BeadArray technology, for
    product sales and new product development.


 



    Key Advantages
    of Our Technology


 


    We believe that our technology provides distinct advantages, in
    a variety of applications, over competing technologies, by
    creating cost-effective, highly miniaturized arrays with the
    following characteristics:


 


    High Throughput.  The miniaturization of our
    BeadArray technology provides very high information content per
    unit area. To increase sample throughput, we have formatted our
    array matrix in a pattern arranged to match the wells of
    standard microtiter plates, allowing throughput levels of up to
    nearly 150,000 unique assays per microtiter plate, and we use
    laboratory robotics to speed process time. Similarly, we have
    patterned our whole-genome expression BeadChips to support up to
    48,000 gene expression assays for six samples with each
    BeadChip, and our whole-genome genotyping BeadChips to support
    over 1,000,000 genotypes with each BeadChip. Our Infinium and
    GoldenGate assays are supported by full automation and LIMS to
    address high throughput laboratories. Our Genome Analyzer can
    analyze the DNA sequences of tens of millions of clusters at one
    time.


 


    Cost Effectiveness.  Our array products
    substantially reduce the cost of our customers’ experiments
    as a result of our proprietary manufacturing process and our
    ability to capitalize on cost reductions generated by advances
    in fiber optics, plasma etching processes, digital imaging and
    bead chemistry. In addition, our products require smaller
    reagent volumes than other array technologies, thereby reducing
    reagent costs for our customers. Our Oligator technology further
    reduces reagent costs, as well as reducing our cost of coating
    beads used in our BeadArray and VeraCode technologies. We
    believe the Genome Analyzer allows DNA sequencing at
    1/100th of the cost of conventional capillary instruments.


 


    Flexibility.  We are able to offer flexible
    solutions to our customers based on our ability to attach
    different kinds of molecules, including DNA, RNA, proteins and
    other chemicals, to our beads. In addition, we can have
    BeadChips manufactured in multiple shapes and sizes with wells
    organized in various arrangements to optimize them for different
    markets and market segments. In combination, the use of beads
    and etched wells provides the flexibility and scalability for
    our BeadArray technology to be tailored to perform many
    applications in many different market segments, from drug
    discovery to diagnostics. Our Oligator technology allows us to
    manufacture a wide diversity of lengths and quantities of
    oligos. DNA sequences determined with our Genome Analyzer can be
    used to identify larger DNA or RNA molecules from which the
    sequences have been derived, and can also be used for a series
    of applications based on tag sequencing, including digital gene
    expression analysis and microRNA discovery and quantification.


 


    Quality and Reproducibility.  The quality of
    our products is dependent upon each element in the
    system — the array, the assay used to perform the
    experiment and the instrumentation and software used to capture
    the results. Each array is manufactured with a high density of
    beads, which enables us to have multiple copies of each
    individual bead type. We measure the copies simultaneously and
    combine them into one data point. This allows us to make a
    comparison of each bead against its own population of identical
    beads, which permits the statistical calculation of a more
    reliable and accurate value for each data point. Finally, the
    manufacture of the array includes a proprietary decoding step
    that also functions as a quality control test of every bead on
    every array, improving the overall quality of the data. When we
    develop the assays used with our products, we focus on
    performance, cost and ease of use. By developing assays that are
    easy to use, we can reduce the potential for the introduction of
    error into the experiment. We believe that this enables
    researchers to obtain high quality and reproducible data from
    their experiments. Additionally, we manufacture substantially
    all of the reagents used in our assays, allowing us to control
    the quality of the product delivered to the customer.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Our
    Strategy


 


    Our goal is to make our BeadArray, BeadXpress and Genome
    Analyzer platforms the industry standard for products and
    services addressing the genetic analysis markets. We plan to
    achieve this by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    focusing on emerging high-growth markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    seek out new and complimentary technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    expanding our technologies into multiple product lines,
    applications and market segments; and




 



     
        • 

    
    strengthening our technological leadership.





 



    Products and
    Services


 


    The first implementation of our BeadArray technology, the Array
    Matrix, is a disposable matrix with 96 fiber optic bundles
    arranged in a pattern that matches the standard 96-well
    microtiter plate. Each fiber optic bundle performs more than
    1,500 unique assays. The BeadChip, introduced in 2003, is
    fabricated in multiple configurations to support multiple
    applications and scanning technologies.


 


    We have provided genotyping services using our proprietary
    BeadArray technology since 2001. In addition, we have developed
    our first genotyping and gene expression products based on this
    technology. These products include disposable Array Matrices and
    BeadChips, GoldenGate and Infinium reagent kits for SNP
    genotyping, BeadArray Reader scanning instruments and an
    evolving portfolio of custom and standard gene expression
    products.


 



    SNP
    Genotyping


 


    In 2001, we introduced the first commercial application of our
    BeadArray technology by launching our SNP genotyping services
    product line. Since this launch, we have had peak days in which
    we operated at 185 million genotypes per day. To our
    knowledge, no other genotyping platform can achieve comparable
    levels of throughput while delivering such high accuracy and low
    cost.


 


    We designed our first consumable BeadArray product, the Array
    Matrix, for SNP genotyping. The Array Matrix uses a universal
    format that allows it to analyze any set of SNPs. We have also
    developed reagent kits based on GoldenGate assay protocols and
    the BeadArray Reader, a laser scanner, which is used to read our
    array products.


 


    The BeadStation, a flexible and scalable system for performing
    genotyping, was initially commercialized in late 2003. The
    system currently includes our BeadArray Reader and genotyping
    and/or gene
    expression analysis software. Depending on throughput and
    automation requirements, our customers can select the system
    configuration to best meet their needs. For production-scale
    throughput, multiple BeadStations combined with LIMS, standard
    operating procedures, and analytical software and fluid handling
    robotics can be configured to produce millions of genotypes per
    day. Scientists and researchers can perform genotyping, gene
    expression, methylation, and copy number variation (CNV)
    analysis with these products.


 


    In 2006, we introduced several new SNP genotyping products,
    including the HumanHap family of BeadChips, for genome-wide
    disease association studies. This family of BeadChips enables
    researchers to interrogate more than 1,000,000 SNP markers for
    associated studies. We believe our BeadChips provide the most
    comprehensive genomic coverage and highest data quality of any
    whole-genome genotyping product currently available. Through an
    application called Copy Number Polymorphisms, the HumanHap
    family of BeadChips also provides high-resolution information on
    amplifications, deletions and loss of heterozygosity throughout
    the genome, abnormalities common in cancers and congenital
    diseases. In addition, we announced additional standard panels
    in the first quarter of 2006, including mouse linkage and cancer
    panels.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    Also, in 2006, we began shipment of the iSelect Infinium
    genotyping product line used for focused content applications.
    With this product, customers can create a custom array of up to
    60,000 SNP markers per sample with 12 samples per chip.


 


    During the fourth quarter of 2006, we introduced and began
    shipping the HumanHap300-Duo and the HumanHap300-Duo+ Genotyping
    BeadChips, as well as the RatRef-12 Expression BeadChip. The
    HumanHap300-Duo allows researchers to analyze two samples
    simultaneously, with over 634,000 total tag SNPs on a single
    BeadChip. The HumanHap300-Duo+ allows for the addition of 60,000
    custom SNP loci to the base product, enabling researchers to
    enrich that product with SNPs of interest in any genomic region.
    The RatRef-12 Expression BeadChip enables analysis of 12 samples
    in parallel on a single BeadChip. Content for this BeadChip is
    derived from the NCBI RefSeq database (Release 16), with over
    22,000 rat transcripts represented. By allowing for multiple
    samples on the same BeadChip, we believe we have minimized chip
    to chip variability and enhanced data quality.


 


    In 2007, we announced the following key new product developments
    associated with SNP Genotyping:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Human 1M DNA Analysis BeadChip.  This product
    combines an unprecedented level of content for both whole-genome
    and CNV analysis, along with additional unique, high-value
    genomic regions of interest — all on a single
    microarray chip. Shipments of the Human 1M DNA Analysis BeadChip
    began during the second quarter of 2007.




 



     
        • 

    
    HumanCNV370-Duo BeadChip.  The HumanCNV370-Duo
    enables researchers to analyze two samples simultaneously and
    access novel content for detecting disease-relevant CNV regions.
    Shipments of the HumanCNV370-Duo BeadChip began during the
    second quarter of 2007.




 



     
        • 

    
    HumanHap550-Duo BeadChip.  The HumanHap550-Duo
    provides the same content as our HumanHap550 BeadChip in a
    dual-format, resulting in significantly greater throughput and
    lower costs per sample. The HumanHap550-Duo contains more than
    550,000 SNPs, selected based on a novel tag SNP approach.
    Shipments of the HumanHap550-Duo BeadChip began during the third
    quarter of 2007.





 


    During 2008, we introduced two new products for DNA analysis:
    the Infinium High-Density (HD) Human1M-Duo (two samples per
    chip) and the Human610-Quad (four samples per chip), featuring
    up to 2.3 million SNPs per BeadChip. The new Infinium HD
    product line doubles sample throughput and reduces DNA input
    requirements by as much as 70 percent. The Infinium HD
    products also offer, what we believe is, enhanced signal
    discrimination and a new SNP calling algorithm. First customer
    shipments of the Human610-Quad and Human1M-Duo BeadChips are
    expected in the first and second quarter of 2008, respectively.


 



    Gene
    Expression Profiling


 


    With the addition of application specific accessory kits, our
    production-scale BeadStations are capable of performing a
    growing number of applications, including gene expression
    profiling.


 


    In 2003, we introduced our focused set gene expression products
    on both the Array Matrix and BeadChip platforms. Our system
    includes a BeadArray Reader for imaging Array Matrices and
    BeadChips, a hybridization chamber and software for data
    extraction.


 


    In 2005, we began shipment of the Human-6 and HumanRef-8
    Expression BeadChip products. Both products allow large-scale
    expression profiling of multiple samples on a single chip and
    are imaged using our BeadArray Reader. The Human-6 BeadChip is
    designed to analyze six discrete whole-human-genome samples on
    one chip, interrogating in each sample approximately 48,000
    transcripts from the estimated 30,000 genes in the human genome.
    The HumanRef-8 BeadChip product analyzes eight samples in
    parallel against 24,000 transcripts from the roughly 22,000
    genes represented in the consensus RefSeq database, a
    well-characterized whole-genome subset used broadly in genetic
    analysis. We believe these gene expression BeadChips have
    dramatically reduced the cost of whole-genome



    
    9



Table of Contents




    expression analysis, allowing researchers to expand the scale
    and reproducibility of large-scale biological experimentation.


 


    In 2006, we began shipment of the RatRef-12, which analyzes
    twelve samples in parallel against 22,226 transcripts from the
    roughly 21,910 genes represented in the RefSeq database, release
    16.


 


    In 2007, we launched the next versions of the Human and Mouse
    arrays, taking advantage of the updated content of the RefSeq
    and the UniGene databases could provide. We also expanded our
    product breadth and released our first microRNA arrays for both
    human and mouse. To keep up with the ever changing needs of the
    market, we have invested in the future with new, innovative
    technologies, acquired from the Solexa acquisition, to provide
    our customers with what we believe is the broadest portfolio of
    gene expression technologies available. We believe Digital Gene
    Expression (DGE) is a revolutionary approach to expression
    analysis. Driven by sequencing technology, DGE generates
    genome-wide expression profiles through sequencing, not
    hybridization. We believe this unique method provides 100 times
    the amount of data of other methods. It can provide more than
    one billion bases of data in a single run, at 1% of the cost of
    traditional Sanger sequencing. Using DGE, researchers can:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    quickly discover novel RNAs in any species;




 



     
        • 

    
    accurately quantify low-abundance RNA;




 



     
        • 

    
    confidently analyze small and non-coding RNA, as well as
    transcriptomes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    independently validate microarray data.





 



    Instrumentation


 


    The BeadArray Reader, an instrument we developed, is a key
    component of our BeadStation. This scanning equipment uses a
    laser to read the results of experiments that are captured on
    our arrays and was designed to be used in all areas of genetic
    analysis that use our Array Matrices and BeadChips. In the
    second quarter of 2006, we began shipment of the AutoLoader,
    which automates BeadChip loading and scanning and increases lab
    throughput. The Autoloader is designed to support up to two
    BeadArray Readers simultaneously for unattended operation.


 


    During the first quarter of 2007, we began shipment of the
    Genome Analyzer. This product can generate more than one billion
    bases of data in a single run using a massively parallel
    sequencing approach. The system leverages Solexa
    sequencing-by-synthesis
    technology and novel reversible terminator chemistry, optimized
    to achieve what we believe are unprecedented levels of cost
    effectiveness and throughput.


 


    Also, during the first quarter of 2007, we began shipment of the
    BeadXpress System. This system is a high-throughput, dual-color
    laser detection system developed using the VeraCode digital
    microbead technology. It enables scanning of a broad range of
    multiplexed assays and can take researchers from biomarker
    validation and focused studies to the development of molecular
    diagnostics.


 



    High-Throughput
    Oligo Synthesis


 


    We have put in place a state-of-the-art oligo manufacturing
    facility. This facility serves both the commercial needs under
    our collaboration with Invitrogen and our internal needs. In
    addition to their use to coat beads, these oligos are components
    of the reagent kits for our BeadArray products and are used for
    assay development. We manufacture oligos in a wide range of
    lengths and in several scales, with the ability to add many
    types of modifications. We offer a range of quality control
    options and have implemented a laboratory information management
    system (referred to as LIMS) to control much of the
    manufacturing process. In 2005, we stopped selling oligos
    directly into the market and began shipping oligos under our
    collaboration with Invitrogen.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Our Collaborative
    Partners


 



    deCODE
    genetics


 


    In May 2006, we executed a Joint Development and Licensing
    Agreement (the Development Agreement) with deCODE genetics, ehf.
    (deCODE). Pursuant to the Development Agreement, the parties
    agreed to collaborate exclusively to develop, validate and
    commercialize specific diagnostic tests for variants in genes
    involved in three disease-related pathways: the gene-encoding
    leukotriene A4 hydrolase, linked to heart attack; the
    gene-encoding transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2), linked to
    type 2 diabetes; and the gene-encoding BARD1, linked to breast
    cancer. With deCODE, we are developing diagnostic tests based on
    these variants for use on our BeadXpress system.


 


    Under the agreement, we are responsible for the manufacturing,
    marketing and selling of the diagnostic products. The companies
    share the development costs of these products and split the
    profits from sales of the diagnostics tests. The Development
    Agreement may be terminated as to a particular product under
    development if one party decides to discontinue funding the
    development of that product, and may be terminated in whole by
    either party if the other party commits an uncured material
    breach, files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent. Under a
    separate supply agreement, we installed instrumentation at
    deCODE that enables deCODE to perform whole genome association
    studies on up to 100,000 samples using our HumanHap300 BeadChips
    and associated reagents.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We have an extensive patent portfolio, including, as of
    February 1, 2008, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to,
    119 issued U.S. patents and 153 pending U.S. patent
    applications, including five allowed applications that have not
    yet issued as patents, some of which derive from a common parent
    application. This portfolio includes patents acquired as part of
    our acquisition of Solexa on January 26, 2007. Our issued
    patents, which are directed at various aspects of our arrays,
    assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments and
    chemical detection technologies, expire between 2010 and 2025.
    We are seeking to extend the patents directed at the full range
    of our technologies. We have received or filed counterparts for
    many of these patents and applications in one or more foreign
    countries.


 


    We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright and
    trademark protection, as well as continuing technological
    innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain
    our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our
    ability to obtain patent protection for our products and
    processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our
    patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without
    infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and to
    acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products.


 


    We are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license
    agreements and other arrangements with third parties, which
    grant us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing
    technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent
    kits and scanning equipment. We have exclusive licenses from
    Tufts University to patents that are directed at our use of
    BeadArray technology. These patents were filed by Dr. David
    Walt, a member of our board of directors, the Chairman of our
    Scientific Advisory Board and one of our founders. Our exclusive
    licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents,
    which will occur between 2010 and 2020. We also have additional
    nonexclusive licenses from various third parties for other
    components of our products. In most cases, the agreements remain
    in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be
    terminated at our request without further obligation and require
    that we pay customary royalties while the agreement is in effect.


 



    Research and
    Development


 


    We have made substantial investments in research and development
    since our inception. We have assembled a team of skilled
    engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology,
    chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems,
    software, manufacturing and other related areas required to
    complete the development of our products. Our research and
    development efforts have focused primarily on the



    
    11



Table of Contents




    tasks required to optimize our BeadArray, Oligator, VeraCode and
    sequencing technologies and to support commercialization of the
    products and services derived from these technologies. As of
    December 30, 2007, we had a total of 277 employees
    engaged in research and development activities.


 


    Our research and development expenses for 2007, 2006, and 2005
    (inclusive of charges relating to stock-based compensation of
    $10.0 million, $3.9 million, and $0.1 million,
    respectively) were $73.9 million, $33.4 million, and
    $27.8 million, respectively. Compared to 2007, we expect
    research and development expense to increase during 2008 as we
    continue to expand our research and product development efforts.


 



    Marketing and
    Distribution


 


    Our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the
    life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving
    sequencing, SNP genotyping and gene expression profiling. These
    experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research,
    including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug
    discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics and
    agricultural research. Our potential customers include
    pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics and
    consumer products companies, as well as academic or private
    research centers. The genetic analysis market is relatively new
    and emerging and its size and speed of development will be
    ultimately driven by, among other items:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the ability of the research community to extract medically
    valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge
    to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput
    research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation
    required to study genetic variation and biological
    function; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of government and private industry funding to
    perform the research required to extract medically relevant
    information from genomic analysis.





 


    We market and distribute our products directly to customers in
    North America, major European markets, Japan Singapore, and
    China. In each of these areas, we have dedicated sales, service
    and application support personnel responsible for expanding and
    managing their respective customer bases. In smaller markets in
    the Pacific Rim countries and Europe, we sell our products and
    provide services to customers through distributors that
    specialize in life science products. We expect to significantly
    increase our sales and distribution resources during 2008 and
    beyond as we launch a number of new products and expand the
    number of customers that can use our products.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We manufacture our array and sequencing platforms, reagent kits,
    scanning equipment and oligos. Our manufacturing capacity for
    BeadChips has increased 50% over the level as of January 1,
    2007, despite the substantial increase in complexity associated
    with manufacturing these products. We intend to continue to
    increase capacity both domestically and internationally as
    needed to manufacture our products in sufficient quantity to
    meet our business plan for 2008. We expect to continue expanding
    our manufacturing capacity in Singapore. We have signed a lease
    agreement and plan to commence manufacturing operations in the
    latter half of 2008. We are focused on continuing to enhance the
    quality and manufacturing yield of our Array Matrices and
    BeadChips and are exploring ways to continue increasing the
    level of automation in the manufacturing process. In addition,
    we have implemented information management systems for many of
    our manufacturing and services operations to manage all aspects
    of material and sample use. We adhere to access and safety
    standards required by federal, state and local health
    ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling and disposal
    of hazardous substances.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Competition


 


    Although we expect that our products and services will provide
    significant advantages over products and services currently
    available from other sources, we expect to encounter intense
    competition from other companies that offer products and
    services for the SNP genotyping, gene expression and sequencing
    markets. These include companies such as Affymetrix, Agilent,
    Applera Corporation, Applied Biosystems, Beckman Coulter,
    Complete Genomics, Fluidigm, GE Corp., Luminex, Pacific
    Biosciences, Perlegen Sciences, Roche Diagnostics, Sequenom and
    Third Wave Technologies. Some of these companies have or will
    have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and
    other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales,
    distribution and service organizations than we do. In addition,
    they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets
    we need to address and in some cases a larger installed base of
    systems. Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect
    new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to
    increase. In order to effectively compete with these companies,
    we will need to demonstrate that our products have superior
    throughput, cost and accuracy advantages over the competing
    products. Rapid technological development may result in our
    products or technologies becoming obsolete. Products offered by
    us could be made obsolete either by less expensive or more
    effective products based on similar or other technologies.
    Although we believe that our technology and products will offer
    advantages that will enable us to compete effectively with these
    companies, we cannot assure you that we will be successful.


 



    Segment and
    Geographic Information


 


    We operate in one business segment for the development,
    manufacture and commercialization of tools for genetic analysis.
    Our operations are treated as one segment as we only report
    operating results on an aggregate basis to our chief operating
    decision maker, our Chief Executive Officer.


 


    During 2007, $159.1 million, or 43%, of our total revenue
    came from shipments to customers outside the United States,
    compared to $81.5 million, or 44%, and $28.0 million,
    or 38%, in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Sales to territories
    outside of the United States are generally denominated in
    U.S. dollars. We expect that sales to international
    customers will continue to be an important and growing source of
    revenue. We have sales support resources in Western Europe and
    direct sales offices in Japan, Singapore and China. In addition,
    we have distributor relationships in various countries in the
    Pacific Rim region and Europe. See Note 13 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further information
    concerning our foreign and domestic operations.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown
    significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products
    is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and
    highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as academic
    customers spend unused budget allocations before the end of the
    government’s fiscal year.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are dedicated to the protection of our employees and the
    environment. Our operations require the use of hazardous
    materials which subject us to a variety of federal, state and
    local environmental and safety laws and regulations. We believe
    we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and
    regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and
    fines should contamination of the environment or individual
    exposures to hazardous substances occur. In addition, we cannot
    predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the
    development of new laws and regulations, will affect our
    business operations or the cost of compliance.


 


    During 2007, we entered into a lease agreement with BioMed
    Realty Trust, Inc. to expand into a new office building in
    San Diego, California. This new building will be LEED
    certified.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    Employees


 


    As of December 30, 2007, we had a total of
    1,041 employees, 195 of whom hold Ph.D. degrees.
    Ninety-seven of our employees with Ph.D. degrees are engaged in
    full-time research and development activities. None of our
    employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our
    employee relations to be positive.


 



    Executive
    Officers


 


    Our executive officers as of February 1, 2008, are as
    follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    Jay T. Flatley



 

 


    55

 


 


    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director





    Christian O. Henry



 

 


    39

 


 


    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Acting General
    Manager of Sequencing





    Christian G. Cabou



 

 


    59

 


 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary





    Tristan B. Orpin



 

 


    41

 


 


    Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations





    John R. Stuelpnagel, DVM



 

 


    50

 


 


    Co-Founder, Senior Vice President and General Manager,
    Microarrays, Chief Operating Officer and Director








 


    Jay Flatley is President and Chief Executive Officer of
    Illumina. Prior to his appointment in 1999, Mr. Flatley was
    the President and Chief Executive Officer of Molecular Dynamics,
    later acquired by Amersham Pharmacia Biotech in 1998 and now a
    part of GE Healthcare. Mr. Flatley, who was a founder and
    member of the board of directors for Molecular Dynamics, lead
    the company to its initial public offering (IPO) in 1993, in
    addition to helping the company develop and launch over 15 major
    instrumentation systems, including the world’s first
    capillary-based DNA sequencer. Prior to joining Molecular
    Dynamics, Mr. Flatley was Vice President of Engineering and
    Strategic Planning for Plexus Computers, a manufacturer of
    high-performance Unix super-microcomputers. Before his career at
    Plexus, Mr. Flatley was Executive Vice President for
    Manning Technologies and held various manufacturing positions
    while working for the Autolab division of Spectra Physics.
    Mr. Flatley received a bachelor of arts degree in economics
    from Claremont McKenna College (Claremont, CA) and a bachelor of
    science and master of science (summa cum laude) in industrial
    engineering from Stanford University (Stanford, CA). Currently,
    he serves as a member of the board of directors of both Illumina
    and GenVault Corporation.


 


    Christian Henry is Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
    Officer and Acting General Manager of Sequencing of Illumina.
    Mr. Henry joined Illumina in June 2005 and is responsible
    for worldwide financial operations, controllership functions,
    facilities management and oversight of Illumina’s DNA
    Sequencing business. Mr. Henry served previously as the
    Chief Financial Officer for Tickets.com, a publicly traded,
    online ticket provider that was recently acquired by Major
    League Baseball Advanced Media, LP. Prior to that,
    Mr. Henry was Vice President, Finance and Corporate
    Controller of Affymetrix, Inc., a publicly traded life sciences
    company, where he oversaw accounting, planning, SEC and
    management reporting, and treasury and risk management. He
    previously held a similar position at Nektar Therapeutics
    (formerly Inhale Therapeutic Systems, Inc.). Mr. Henry
    received a bachelor of administration degree in biochemistry and
    cell biology from the University of California, San Diego,
    and a master of business administration degree from the
    University of California, Irvine. He is a certified public
    accountant.


 


    Christian Cabou is Senior Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Illumina. Mr. Cabou joined Illumina in May
    2006 and has worldwide responsibility for all legal and
    intellectual property matters. Mr. Cabou is also
    Illumina’s Code of Ethics Compliance Officer. Before
    joining Illumina, Mr. Cabou spent five years as General
    Counsel for GE Global Research and, before that, was Senior
    Counsel of Global Intellectual Property for GE Medical Systems.
    Prior to his position at GE, Mr. Cabou spent seven years
    with the law firm Foley & Lardner where he was a
    partner. He had twenty years of experience in engineering design
    and management prior to his career in law and intellectual
    property.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Mr. Cabou received a J.D. from Northwestern
    University’s School of Law (Chicago, IL.) in addition to a
    master of engineering management degree from Northwestern
    University. Mr. Cabou was awarded a MSEE (equivalent)
    degree from the Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers
    (Paris, France) and a bachelor of science (equivalent) degree
    from the Lycée Technique d’Etat (Armentières,
    France).


 


    Tristan Orpin is Senior Vice President, Commercial
    Operations of Illumina. He joined Illumina in December of 2002
    in the role of Vice President of Worldwide Sales, and in January
    of 2007 was promoted to the position of Senior Vice President of
    Commercial Operations. Before joining Illumina, Mr. Orpin
    was Director of Sales and Marketing for Sequenom from September
    1999 to August 2001. Later Mr. Orpin was elected Vice
    President of Sales and Marketing and held this position from
    August 2001 to November 2002. Prior to 2001, Mr. Orpin
    served in several senior sales and marketing positions at
    Bio-Rad Laboratories. Mr. Orpin received a bachelor of
    science in genetics and biochemistry with first class honors
    from the University of Melbourne (Melbourne, Australia).


 


    John Stuelpnagel, D.V.M., one of Illumina’s
    co-founders, will serve as General Manager of Microarrays and
    Chief Operating Officer until April 1, 2008. Subsequent to
    that date, Dr. Stuelpnagel will have a continuing role with
    Illumina working on key projects as an Illumina Fellow.
    Additionally, as of April 1, 2008, he will step down from
    Illumina’s Board of Directors. He has served as the
    Company’s Chief Operating Officer since January 2005 and a
    Director since April 1998. From April 1998 to October 1999, he
    served as acting President and Chief Executive Officer and from
    April 1998 to April 2000 as acting Chief Financial Officer.
    Between October 1999 and January 2005, Dr. Stuelpnagel was
    Vice President of Business Development and later as Senior Vice
    President of Operations. While founding Illumina,
    Dr. Stuelpnagel was an associate with CW Group, a venture
    capital firm. Dr. Stuelpnagel received both a bachelor of
    science degree in biochemistry and a doctorate degree in
    veterinary medicine from the University of California (Davis,
    CA), and went on to receive a master of business administration
    degree from the University of California, Los Angeles.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    Our business is subject to various risks, including those
    described below. In addition to the other information included
    in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following issues could adversely affect our operating
    results or our stock price.


 



    We expect
    intense competition in our target markets, which could render
    our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or
    substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. This
    would limit our ability to compete and maintain profitability.
    If we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new
    products, our revenue may not grow as intended.


 


    We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture
    and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function and other applications using technologies
    such as two-dimensional electrophoresis, capillary
    electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry,
    microfluidics, nanotechnology, next-generation DNA sequencing
    and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays.
    We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the
    future as existing companies develop new or improved products
    and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. The
    markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing
    technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer
    needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and
    strong price competition. For example, prices per data point for
    genotyping have fallen significantly over the last two years and
    we anticipate that prices will continue to fall. One or more of
    our competitors may render our technology obsolete or
    uneconomical. Some of our competitors have greater financial and
    personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established
    customer base and more experience in research and development
    than we do. Furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical
    companies, which are our potential customers and strategic
    partners, could develop competing products. For example, during
    the third quarter of fiscal 2007, Applied Biosystems Group, a
    business segment of Applera Corporation, launched the
    SOLIDtm
    System, its next generation sequencing technology.
    If we are unable



    
    15



Table of Contents




    to develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new
    product offerings, our business, financial condition and results
    of operations will suffer.


 



    Our
    manufacturing capacity may limit our ability to sell our
    products.


 


    We continue to ramp up our capacity to meet the anticipated
    demand for our products. Although we have significantly
    increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have
    plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to
    meet our business plan in 2008 and 2009, there are uncertainties
    inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may
    not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. For
    example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as
    we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and
    launch new products. As a result, we may experience difficulties
    in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which
    case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product
    introductions, and demand for our products could decline.
    Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in
    manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced
    production yields. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing
    products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or
    previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that
    could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability
    to launch or sell these products, or to produce them
    economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance
    levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by
    customers.


 



    We may
    encounter difficulties in managing our growth. These
    difficulties could impair our profitability.


 


    We have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid
    and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans,
    which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If
    we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our
    profitability could suffer. Our ability to manage our operations
    and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds
    to enhance our operational, financial and management controls,
    reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain
    sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to
    scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process
    and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we
    encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we
    will not be able to make available the products required to
    successfully commercialize our technology. Failure to attract
    and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further
    strain our human resources and could impede our growth.


 



    If we lose our
    key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional
    personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals.


 


    We are highly dependent on our management and scientific
    personnel, including Jay Flatley, our president and chief
    executive officer. The loss of their services could adversely
    impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We will
    need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in
    molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing,
    sales, marketing and technical support. We compete for qualified
    management and scientific personnel with other life science
    companies, universities and research institutions, particularly
    those focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals,
    particularly in the San Diego and San Francisco area,
    is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. Failure to
    attract and retain management and scientific personnel would
    prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our
    products or technologies.


 


    Our planned activities will require additional expertise in
    specific industries and areas applicable to the products
    developed through our technologies, including the life sciences
    and healthcare industries. Thus, we will need to add new
    personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of
    existing management. The failure to do so could impair the
    growth of our business.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    If we are
    unable to develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing
    capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products
    in a timely manner, or at all.


 


    We currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. Our
    manufacturing facilities are located in San Diego and
    Hayward, California and Little Chesterford, United Kingdom. We
    are in the process of expanding our manufacturing operations
    into Singapore, a country in which we have no past manufacturing
    experience. These areas are subject to natural disasters such as
    earthquakes or floods. If a natural disaster were to
    significantly damage one of our facilities or if other events
    were to cause our operations to fail, these events could prevent
    us from developing and manufacturing our products and services.


 


    Also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are
    controlled by our custom-designed Laboratory Information
    Management System (LIMS). Additionally, as part of the decoding
    step in our array manufacturing process, we record several
    images of each array to identify what bead is in each location
    on the array and to validate each bead in the array. This
    requires significant network and storage infrastructure. If
    either our LIMS system or our networks or storage infrastructure
    were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely
    impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis
    and would prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in
    any given period.


 



    Our sales,
    marketing and technical support organization may limit our
    ability to sell our products.


 


    We currently have fewer resources available for sales and
    marketing and technical support services compared to some of our
    primary competitors. In order to effectively commercialize our
    sequencing, genotyping and gene expression systems and other
    products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing
    and technical support staff both domestically and
    internationally. We may not be successful in establishing or
    maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution
    arrangements to market our products and services. In addition,
    we compete primarily with much larger companies that have larger
    sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base
    of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and
    marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market
    acceptance of our products required to support continued growth
    of our business.


 



    Negative
    conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity
    of a portion of our investment portfolio.


 


    Our investment securities consist of U.S. dollar-based
    short maturity mutual funds, commercial paper, corporate bonds,
    treasury notes, auction rate securities and municipal bonds. As
    of December 30, 2007, our short-term investments included
    $14.7 million of high-grade (AAA rated) auction rate
    securities issued primarily by municipalities and universities.
    The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have
    prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings,
    including their holdings of auction rate securities. In February
    2008, we were informed that there was insufficient demand at
    auction for four of our high-grade auction rate securities,
    representing approximately $10.7 million. As a result,
    these affected securities are currently not liquid, and we could
    be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the issuer
    or to maturity. We may experience a similar situation with our
    remaining auction rate securities. In the event we need to
    access the funds that are in an illiquid state, we will not be
    able to do so without a loss of principal, until a future
    auction on these investments is successful, the securities are
    redeemed by the issuer or they mature. At this time, management
    has not obtained sufficient evidence to conclude that these
    investments are impaired or that they will not be settled in the
    short term, although the market for these investments is
    presently uncertain. If the credit ratings of the security
    issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is
    determined to be other-than-temporary, we would adjust the
    carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    We may
    encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions that could
    adversely affect our business, specifically the effective launch
    and customer acceptance of new technology
    platforms.


 


    We acquired Solexa in January 2007 and CyVera in April 2005 and
    we may in the future acquire technology, products or businesses
    related to our current or future business. We have limited
    experience in acquisition activities and may have to devote
    substantial time and resources in order to complete
    acquisitions. Further, these potential acquisitions entail
    risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business.
    For example, we may not be able to successfully integrate a
    company’s operations, technologies, products and services,
    information systems and personnel into our business. An
    acquisition may further strain our existing financial and
    managerial resources, and divert management’s attention
    away from our other business concerns.


 


    In connection with these acquisitions, we assumed certain
    liabilities and hired certain employees, which is expected to
    continue to result in an increase in our research and
    development expenses and capital expenditures. There may also be
    unanticipated costs and liabilities associated with an
    acquisition that could adversely affect our operating results.
    To finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of
    our common stock as consideration, which could result in
    dilution to our stockholders. Additionally, an acquisition may
    have a substantial negative impact on near-term expected
    financial results.


 


    The success of the Solexa acquisition depends, in part, on our
    ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth
    opportunities and cost savings from integrating Solexa’s
    businesses with our businesses. Our success in realizing these
    benefits and the timing of this realization depends upon the
    continued successful integration of the operations of Solexa.
    The integration of two independent companies is a complex,
    costly and time-consuming process. In addition, Solexa continues
    to operate at separate sites. Geographic integration in whole or
    in part could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of
    each company’s management’s attention, the disruption
    or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each
    company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in
    standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could
    adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with
    customers and employees or our ability to achieve the
    anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce our
    earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and
    financial results of the combined company.


 



    The combined
    company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the
    acquisition as a result of our failure to achieve anticipated
    revenue growth following the acquisition.


 


    For various reasons, including significant competition, low
    market acceptance or market growth, and lack of technology
    advantage, revenue recognized from the Solexa acquisition may
    not grow as anticipated and if so, we may not realize the
    expected value from this transaction.


 



    If we are
    unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture
    components of our products, we may not be able to launch or
    support our products in a timely manner, or at
    all.


 


    The nature of our products requires customized components that
    currently are available from a limited number of sources. For
    example, we currently use multiple components in our products
    that are single-sourced. If we are unable to secure a sufficient
    supply of those or other product components, we will be unable
    to meet demand for our products. We may need to enter into
    contractual relationships with manufacturers for
    commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop
    these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we
    will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient
    quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. Accordingly, we
    may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume
    manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs.


 



    Changes in our
    effective income tax rate could impact our
    profitability.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments based on
    interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required
    in



    
    18



Table of Contents




    determining the provision for income taxes. Our effective income
    tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors
    including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in
    tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in
    the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in
    existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of
    non-deductible expenses including share-based compensation,
    changes in our future levels of research and development
    spending, mergers and acquisitions, and the result of
    examinations by various tax authorities.


 



    Any inability
    to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm
    our competitive position.


 


    Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents
    and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in
    the United States and other countries. If we do not protect our
    intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use
    our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage.
    The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary
    rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and
    many companies have encountered significant challenges in
    protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These challenges can
    be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the
    establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights
    abroad.


 


    The patent positions of companies developing tools for the life
    sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent
    position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and
    factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary
    rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent
    that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and
    enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade
    secrets. We intend to apply for patents covering our
    technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. However, our
    patent applications may be challenged and may not result in
    issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after
    they are issued. Questions as to inventorship may also arise.
    Any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable
    could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the
    related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship
    rights to our patents and applications could require us to
    obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which
    may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.


 


    In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we
    obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from
    practicing our technologies or from developing competing
    products. There also is risk that others may independently
    develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our
    patented technologies. Also, our patents may fail to provide us
    with any competitive advantage. We may need to initiate
    additional lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or
    litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive
    and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual
    property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the
    marketplace. Furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the
    attention of our management and technical personnel.


 


    We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential
    and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to
    protect our confidential information. These measures, however,
    may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or
    other confidential information. Among other things, we seek to
    protect our trade secrets and confidential information by
    entering into confidentiality agreements with employees,
    collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees,
    collaborators or consultants may still disclose our confidential
    information, and we may not otherwise be able to effectively
    protect our trade secrets. Accordingly, others may gain access
    to our confidential information, or may independently develop
    substantially equivalent information or techniques.


 



    Litigation or
    other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property
    infringement could require us to spend significant time and
    money and could prevent us from selling our products or services
    or impact our stock price.


 


    Our commercial success depends, in part, on our non-infringement
    of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and on our
    ability to protect our own intellectual property. Third parties
    have asserted or may assert that we are employing their
    proprietary technology without authorization. As we



    
    19



Table of Contents




    enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely assert
    that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as
    part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into
    those markets. In addition, third parties may have obtained and
    may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the
    use of our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur
    substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and
    technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these
    claims. Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in
    defending ourselves against these claims could have a material
    adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate
    to the actual import of the ruling itself. Furthermore, parties
    making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or
    other relief, which effectively could block our ability to
    develop further, commercialize and sell products, and could
    result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the
    event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may
    be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from
    third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products.
    In addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a
    reasonable cost, if at all. We could therefore incur substantial
    costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from
    third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins.
    In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions
    while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products.
    Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these
    licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from
    commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of
    our products could materially affect our ability to grow and
    maintain profitability.


 



    We have a
    significant amount of indebtedness. We may not be able to make
    payments on our indebtedness, and we may incur additional
    indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our
    operation and profitability.


 


    In February 2007, we issued $400 million of
    0.625% Convertible Senior Notes due February 2014. The
    notes bear interest semi-annually, mature on February 15,
    2014 and obligate us to repurchase the notes at the option of
    the holders if a “designated event” (as defined in the
    indenture for the notes), such as certain merger transactions
    involving us, occurs. In addition, upon conversion of the notes,
    we must pay in cash the principal portion of the notes being
    converted. Our ability to make payments on the notes will depend
    on our future operating performance and our ability to generate
    cash and may also depend on our ability to obtain additional
    debt or equity financing. We may need to use our cash to pay
    principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds
    available to fund our research and development programs,
    strategic initiatives and working capital requirements. Our
    ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to service
    the notes and fund our operating requirements will depend on our
    continued ability to commercialize new products and expand our
    manufacturing capabilities. Our debt service obligations
    increase our vulnerabilities to competitive pressures, because
    our competitors may be less leveraged than we are. If we are
    unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow to service our
    indebtedness and fund our operating requirements, we may be
    forced to reduce our development programs or seek additional
    debt or equity financing, which may not be available to us on
    satisfactory terms, or at all, or may dilute the interests of
    our existing stockholders. Our level of indebtedness may make us
    more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. If we incur
    new indebtedness, the risks relating to our business and our
    ability to service our indebtedness will intensify.


 



    We expect that
    our results of operations will fluctuate. This fluctuation could
    cause our stock price to decline.


 


    Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of
    sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact
    of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research
    projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending
    levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable
    factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the
    difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for
    our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter
    fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a
    sequential decline in quarterly revenue. A large portion of our
    expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for
    facilities, equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect
    operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in
    absolute dollars. Accordingly, if revenue does not grow as
    anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual
    profitability. Any significant



    
    20



Table of Contents




    delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable
    sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the
    other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future
    revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly
    revenue. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue
    and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our
    operating results are not a good indication of our future
    performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet
    the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our
    stock price could decline.


 



    We have only
    recently achieved annual operating profitability.


 


    Prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our
    inception, and in 2007 we reported a net loss of
    $278.4 million, reflecting significant charges associated
    with our acquisition of Solexa in January 2007 and the
    settlement of our litigation with Affymetrix. As of
    December 30, 2007, our accumulated deficit was
    $383.0 million. Our ability to regain and sustain annual
    profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if
    any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. Non-cash
    stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to our
    acquisition of Solexa are also likely to continue to adversely
    affect our future profitability. We expect to continue incurring
    significant expenses related to research and development, sales
    and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the
    continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. In
    addition, we expect that our research and development and
    selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in
    the future as a result of the development and launch of new
    products. Even if we regain profitability, we may not be able to
    increase profitability on a quarterly basis.


 



    A significant
    portion of our sales are to international
    customers.


 


    Approximately 43%, 44% and 38% of our revenue for the years
    ended December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and
    January 1, 2006, respectively, was derived from shipments
    to customers outside the United States. We intend to continue to
    expand our international presence and export sales to
    international customers and we expect the total amount of
    non-U.S. sales
    to continue to grow. Export sales entail a variety of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of
    foreign countries into which we import our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other
    trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery
    delays; and




 



     
        • 

    
    significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety
    of foreign laws.





 


    In addition, sales to international customers typically result
    in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts
    receivable collection. We are also subject to general
    geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic
    instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One
    or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and operating results.


 



    Our success
    depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for
    analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function.


 


    We design our products primarily for applications in the life
    sciences and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our
    technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data
    and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are
    focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function, namely sequencing, SNP genotyping and gene
    expression profiling. These markets are new and emerging, and
    they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their
    full potential. Other methods of analysis of genetic variation
    and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we
    are developing. Also, researchers may not seek or be able to
    convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information
    through the analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function. In



    
    21



Table of Contents




    addition, factors affecting research and development spending
    generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment
    affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and
    changes in government programs that provide funding to companies
    and research institutions, could harm our business. If useful
    genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not
    develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at
    a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain
    annual profitability.


 



    The accounting
    method for our convertible debt securities may be subject to
    change.


 


    A convertible debt security providing for share
    and/or cash
    settlement of the conversion value and meeting specified
    requirements under Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
    No. 00-19,
    Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to,
    and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock,
    including our outstanding convertible debt securities, is
    currently classified in its entirety as debt under
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. No portion
    of the carrying value of such a security related to the
    conversion option indexed to the issuer’s stock is
    classified as equity. In addition, interest expense is
    recognized at the stated coupon rate. The coupon rate of
    interest for convertible debt securities, including our
    convertible debt securities, is typically lower than an issuer
    would be required to pay for nonconvertible debt with otherwise
    similar terms.


 


    The EITF recently considered whether the accounting for cash
    settled convertible debt securities, which are convertible debt
    securities that require or permit settlement in cash either in
    whole or in part upon conversion should be changed, but was
    unable to reach a consensus and discontinued deliberations on
    this issue. Subsequently, in July 2007, the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board (FASB) voted unanimously to reconsider the
    current accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities,
    which includes our convertible debt securities. In August 2007,
    the FASB exposed for public comment a proposed FASB Staff
    Position (FSP) that would change the method of accounting for
    such securities and would require the proposed method to be
    retrospectively applied. The FASB began its redeliberations of
    the guidance in that proposed FSP in January 2008. The FSP, if
    issued as proposed, would likely become effective for companies
    like us in the first quarter of 2009. Under this proposed method
    of accounting, the debt and equity components of our convertible
    debt securities would be bifurcated and accounted for separately
    in a manner that would result in recognizing interest on these
    securities at effective rates more comparable to what we would
    have incurred had we issued nonconvertible debt with otherwise
    similar terms. The equity component of our convertible debt
    securities would be included in the
    paid-in-capital
    section of stockholders’ equity on our balance sheet and,
    accordingly, the initial carrying values of these debt
    securities would be reduced. Our net income for financial
    reporting purposes would be reduced by recognizing the accretion
    of the reduced carrying values of our convertible debt
    securities to their face amounts as additional non-cash interest
    expense. Therefore, if the proposed method of accounting for
    cash settled convertible debt securities is adopted by the FASB
    as described above, it would have an adverse impact on our past
    and future reported financial results. As the final guidance has
    not been issued, we cannot predict its ultimate outcome.


 


    We also cannot predict any other changes in GAAP that may be
    made affecting accounting for convertible debt securities, some
    of which could have an adverse impact on our past or future
    reported financial results.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B