Item 1A.
    Risk Factors” in this Annual Report, that may cause our
    actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements
    to be materially different from any future results, levels of
    activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by
    these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the
    expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are
    reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of
    activity, performance or achievements. Accordingly, you should
    not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak
    only as of the date of this Annual Report. We are not under any
    duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the
    date we file this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or to conform these statements to actual results, unless
    required by law. You should, however, review the factors and
    risks we describe in the reports we file from time to time with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission.


 


    Illumina®,

    Array of
    Arraystm,

    BeadArraytm,

    BeadXpress®,

    CSPro®,

    DASL®,

    GoldenGate®,

    Genome
    Studiotm,

    Infinium®,

    IntelliHyb®,

    iSelect®,

    Making Sense Out of
    Life®,

    Oligator®,

    Sentrix®,

    Solexa®,

    and
    VeraCode®

    are our trademarks. This report also contains brand names,
    trademarks or service marks of companies other than Illumina,
    and these brand names, trademarks and service marks are the
    property of their respective holders.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    on our website, www.illumina.com. The information on our website
    is not incorporated by reference into this report. Such reports
    are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after
    filing with, or furnishing to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC). The SEC also maintains an Internet site at
    www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information
    statements, and other information regarding issuers that
    electronically file with the SEC. Copies of our annual report
    will be made available, free of charge, upon written request.


 



    Overview


 


    We are a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of
    integrated systems for the large scale analysis of genetic
    variation and biological function. We were incorporated in
    California in April 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July
    2000. Our principal executive offices are located at 9885 Towne
    Centre Drive, San Diego, California 92121. Our telephone
    number is
    (858) 202-4500.


 


    Using our proprietary technologies, we provide a comprehensive
    line of products and services that currently serve the
    sequencing, genotyping and gene expression markets. In the
    future, we expect to enter the market for molecular diagnostics.
    Our customers include leading genomic research centers,
    pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, clinical
    research organizations and biotechnology companies. Our tools
    provide researchers around the world with the performance,
    throughput, cost effectiveness and flexibility necessary to
    perform the billions of genetic tests needed to extract valuable
    medical information from advances in genomics and proteomics. We
    believe this information will enable researchers to correlate
    genetic variation and biological function, which will enhance
    drug discovery and clinical research, allow diseases to be
    detected earlier and permit better choices of drugs for
    individual patients.


 


    On January 26, 2007, we completed the acquisition of
    Solexa, Inc. (Solexa) for 26.2 million shares of our common
    stock. As a result of that acquisition, we develop and
    commercialize sequencing technologies used to



    
    2



Table of Contents




    perform a range of analyses, including whole genome
    re-sequencing, gene expression analysis and small RNA analysis.
    We believe we are the only company with genome-scale technology
    for sequencing, genotyping and gene expression, the three
    cornerstones of modern genetic analysis.


 


    During the first quarter of 2008, we reorganized our operating
    structure into two newly created business segments, Life
    Sciences and Diagnostics. During 2008, the Diagnostics Business
    Unit had limited business activity and, accordingly, operating
    results were reported on an aggregate basis as one operating
    segment. In the future, at each reporting period end, we will
    reassess our reportable operating segments, particularly as we
    enter the market for molecular diagnostics.


 


    On August 1, 2008, we completed the acquisition of
    Avantome, Inc. (Avantome). As consideration for the acquisition,
    we paid $25.8 million in cash and may pay up to an
    additional $35.0 million in contingent cash consideration
    based on the achievement of certain milestones. Avantome is a
    development stage company working on developing low-cost, long
    read sequencing technology. We expect this technology, if and
    when available as a product, to have applicability to both the
    research and diagnostic markets.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    Our goal is to make our Genome Analyzer, BeadArray and
    BeadXpress platforms the industry standards for products and
    services addressing the genetic analysis markets. We plan to
    achieve this by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    focusing on emerging high-growth markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    seeking new and complementary technologies through strategic
    acquisitions and other investments;




 



     
        • 

    
    expanding our technologies into multiple product lines,
    applications and market segments; and




 



     
        • 

    
    strengthening our technological leadership.





 



    Our
    Markets


 


    Our current technologies serve three primary
    markets:  next-generation sequencing,
    mid-to-high-complexity
    microarrays for genotyping and gene expression, and the
    “applied markets,” the majority of which are comprised
    of agricultural research. Next-generation sequencing is the most
    rapidly growing of these three markets. It is fueled by private
    and public funding, new global initiatives to broadly
    characterize genetic variation, and the migration of legacy
    genetic applications to sequencing based technologies. We
    believe our DNA sequencing systems, coupled with complementary
    technologies from strategic investments, including the
    acquisition of Avantome and our collaborative alliance with
    Oxford Nanopore Technologies will enable us to address numerous
    market segments with innovative solutions.


 


    In 2009, we expect to enter the market for molecular
    diagnostics. The molecular diagnostic market is currently
    estimated at nearly $3 billion with the potential to grow
    to over $5 billion by 2012. This market assessment covers
    regulated assays and reagents, and does not factor in
    laboratory-developed tests, which account for a significant
    portion of the total market. The primary growth drivers in the
    molecular diagnostics market are the continued discovery of
    genetic markers with proven clinical utility, the increasing
    adoption of genetic based diagnostic tests, and the expansion of
    reimbursement programs to include a greater number of approved
    diagnostic tests. We believe our Veracode technology platform is
    ideally suited to provide a cost-effective, high-throughput,
    mid- to low-multiplex solution to the molecular diagnostic
    market. We are planning to submit the platform for review by the
    Food and Drug Administration in 2009.


 



    Industry
    Background


 



    Genetic
    Variation and Biological Function


 


    Every person inherits two copies of each gene, one from each
    parent. The two copies of each gene may be identical, or they
    may be different. These differences are referred to as genetic
    variation. Examples of the physical consequences of genetic
    variation include differences in eye and hair color. Genetic
    variation can also have important medical consequences. Genetic
    variation affects disease susceptibility, including
    predisposition



    
    3



Table of Contents




    to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and Alzheimer’s
    disease. In addition, genetic variation may cause people to
    respond differently to the same drug treatment. Some people may
    respond well, others may not respond at all, and still others
    may experience adverse side effects. A common form of genetic
    variation is a single-nucleotide polymorphism, or SNP. A SNP is
    a variation in a single position in a DNA sequence. It is
    estimated that the human genome contains over ten million SNPs.


 


    While in some cases a single SNP will be responsible for
    medically important effects, it is now believed that
    combinations of SNPs may contribute to the development of most
    common diseases. Since there are millions of SNPs, it is
    important to investigate many representative, well-chosen SNPs
    simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable
    information.


 


    Another contributor to disease and dysfunction is the over- or
    under-expression of genes within an organism’s cells. A
    very complex network of genes interacts to maintain health in
    complex organisms. The challenge for scientists is to delineate
    the associated genes’ expression patterns and their
    relationship to disease. Until recently, this problem was
    addressed by investigating effects on a
    gene-by-gene
    basis. This is time consuming and difficulties exist when
    several pathways cannot be observed or “controlled” at
    the same time. With the advent of microarray technology,
    thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time.


 


    There are multiple methods of studying genetic variation and
    biological function, including sequencing, SNP genotyping and
    gene expression profiling, each of which is uniquely addressed
    in our breadth of products and services. Our broad portfolio of
    current products and services supports a range of applications,
    from highest multiplexing (for whole-genome discovery and
    profiling) to mid-and low-multiplexing options (for
    high-throughput targeted screening).


 



    Sequencing


 


    DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of bases
    (A, C, G or T) in a DNA sample, which can be further
    divided into de novo sequencing, re-sequencing and tag
    sequencing. In de novo sequencing, the goal is to
    determine the sequence of a representative sample from a species
    never before sequenced. Understanding the similarities and
    differences in DNA sequence between many species can help our
    understanding of the function of the protein structures encoded
    in the DNA.


 


    In re-sequencing, the sequence of samples from a given species
    is determined and compared to a standard or reference sequence
    to identify changes that reflect genetic variation.
    Re-sequencing studies can be performed on a genome-wide basis,
    which is referred to as whole-genome re-sequencing, or on
    targeted areas of the genome (for example, regions identified by
    genome-wide association study), which is known as targeted
    re-sequencing. This is an extremely comprehensive form of
    genetic analysis, in which every base is characterized for
    possible mutations. We believe that these underlying discoveries
    will likely feed the development of new array products for
    broader testing and biomarker validation.


 


    In tag sequencing, short sequences, often representative of a
    larger molecule or genomic location, are detected and counted.
    In these applications, the number of times that each tag is seen
    provides quantification of an underlying biological process. As
    an example, in digital gene expression, one or more tag
    sequences may be analyzed for each expressed gene, and the
    number of copies of these tags which are detected in an
    experiment is a measure of how actively that gene is being
    expressed in the tissue sample being analyzed. Similarly, a tag
    sequencing approach known as ChIP sequencing is used to
    determine the locations and extent of protein and DNA
    interactions throughout the genome.


 



    SNP
    Genotyping


 


    SNP genotyping is the process of determining which base (A, C, G
    or T) is present at a particular site in the genome within
    any organism. The most common use of SNP genotyping is for
    genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to look for an
    association between DNA sequence variants and a specific
    phenotype of interest. This is commonly done by studying the DNA
    of individuals that are affected by a common disease or that
    exhibit a specific trait against the DNA of control individuals
    who do not have this disease or trait. The use of SNP genotyping
    to obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual
    SNP or a collection of



    
    4



Table of Contents




    SNPs requires the analysis of millions of SNP genotypes and the
    testing of large populations for each disease. For example, a
    single large study could involve genotyping more than 1,000,000
    SNPs per patient in more than 1,000 patients, thus
    requiring 1 billion assays. Using previously available
    technologies, this scale of SNP genotyping was both impractical
    and prohibitively expensive.


 


    Large-scale SNP genotyping can be used in a variety of ways,
    including studies designed to understand the genetic
    contributions to disease (disease association studies), genomics
    based drug development, clinical trial analysis (responders and
    non-responders, and adverse event profiles), disease
    predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. SNP genotyping
    can also be used outside of healthcare, for example in the
    development of plants and animals with commercially desirable
    characteristics. These markets will require billions of SNP
    genotyping assays annually.


 



    Gene
    Expression Profiling


 


    Gene expression profiling is the process of determining which
    genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is
    accomplished by measuring mRNA, the intermediary messenger
    between genes (DNA) and proteins. Variation in gene expression
    can cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease
    or predisposition to disease. By comparing gene expression
    patterns between cells from different environments, such as
    normal tissue compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or
    absence of a drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a
    role in these processes can be identified. Studies of this type,
    often used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and
    preferably tens of thousands, of mRNAs in large numbers of
    samples. Once a smaller set of genes of interest has been
    identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are
    expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example,
    within a clinical trial.


 


    As gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases,
    gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important
    diagnostic tool. Diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is
    anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the
    sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more
    cost-effective technologies.


 



    Our
    Technologies


 



    Sequencing
    Technology


 


    Our DNA sequencing technology, acquired as part of the Solexa
    merger in the first quarter of 2007, is based on the use of our
    sequencing-by-synthesis
    (SBS) biochemistry. In SBS, single stranded DNA is extended from
    a priming site, one base at a time, using reversible terminator
    nucleotides. These are DNA bases which can be added to a growing
    second strand, but which initially cannot be further extended.
    This means that at each cycle of the chemistry, only one base
    can be added. Each base which is added includes a fluorescent
    label which is specific to the particular base. Thus following
    incorporation, the fluorescence can be imaged, its color
    determined, and the base itself can be inferred. Once this is
    done, an additional step removes both the fluorescence and the
    blocking group that had prevented further extension of the
    second strand. This allows another base to be added, and the
    cycle can be repeated. Our technology is capable of generating
    several billion bases of DNA sequence from a single experiment
    with a single sample preparation. The reversible terminator
    bases that we use are novel synthetic molecules which we
    manufacture. They are not well incorporated by naturally
    occurring polymerases, so we have also developed proprietary
    polymerase enzymes for this purpose. Both the nucleotides and
    enzymes are the subject of significant intellectual property
    owned by us.


 


    In our DNA sequencing systems, we apply the SBS biochemistry on
    microscopic islands of DNA, referred to as DNA clusters. Each
    cluster starts as a single DNA molecule, typically a few hundred
    bases long, attached to the inside surface of a flow cell. We
    then use a proprietary amplification biochemistry to create
    copies of each starting molecule. As the copies are made, they
    are covalently linked to the surface, so they cannot diffuse
    away. After a number of cycles of amplification, each cluster
    might have 500 to 1,000 copies of the original starting
    molecule, but still be only about a micron (one-millionth of a
    meter) in diameter. By making so many copies, the fluorescent
    signal from each cluster is significantly increased. Because the
    clusters are so small, tens of millions of clusters can be
    independently formed inside a single flow cell. This



    
    5



Table of Contents




    large number of clusters can then be sequenced simultaneously by
    alternate cycles of SBS biochemistry and fluorescent imaging.


 



    BeadArray
    Technology


 


    Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a
    substrate in a simple proprietary manufacturing process to
    produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously,
    enabling large-scale analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function in a unique high-throughput, cost effective,
    and flexible manner. We achieve high-throughput with a high
    density of test sites per array and we are able to format arrays
    either in a pattern arranged to match the wells of standard
    microtiter plates or in various configurations in the format of
    standard microscope slides. We seek to maximize cost
    effectiveness by reducing consumption of expensive reagents and
    valuable samples, and through the low manufacturing costs
    associated with our technologies. Our ability to vary the size,
    shape and format of the well patterns and to create specific
    bead pools, or sensors, for different applications provides the
    flexibility to address multiple markets and market segments. We
    believe that these features have enabled our BeadArray
    technology to become a leading platform for the high-growth
    market of SNP genotyping and have allowed us to be a key player
    in the gene expression market.


 


    Our proprietary BeadArray technology consists of prepared beads
    that self-assemble into microwells etched into an array
    substrate. We have deployed our BeadArray technology in two
    different array formats, the Array Matrix and the BeadChip. Our
    first bead based product was the Array Matrix which incorporates
    fiber optic bundles. Each bundle is comprised of approximately
    50,000 individual fibers and 96 of these bundles are placed into
    an aluminum plate to form an Array Matrix. BeadChips are
    microscope slide-size silicon wafers with varying numbers of
    sample sites per slide. Both formats are chemically etched to
    create tens of thousands to tens of millions of wells for each
    sample site.


 


    In a separate process, we create sensors by affixing a specific
    type of molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in
    a batch. We make different batches of beads, with the beads in a
    given batch coated with one particular type of molecule. The
    particular molecules on a bead define that bead’s function
    as a sensor. For example, we create a batch of SNP sensors by
    attaching a particular DNA sequence, or a short segment of
    synthetically manufactured DNA called an oligonucleotide
    (oligo), to each bead in the batch. We combine batches of coated
    beads to form a pool specific to the type of array we intend to
    create. A bead pool one milliliter in volume contains sufficient
    beads to produce thousands of arrays.


 


    To form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact
    with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the
    wells, one bead per well. The beads in the wells comprise our
    individual arrays. Because the beads assemble randomly into the
    wells, we perform a final procedure called “decoding”
    in order to determine which bead type occupies which well in the
    array. We employ several proprietary methods for decoding, a
    process that requires only a few steps to identify all the beads
    in the array. One beneficial by-product of the decoding process
    is a functional validation of each bead in the array. This
    quality control test characterizes the performance of each bead
    and can identify and eliminate use of any empty wells. We ensure
    that each bead type on the array is sufficiently represented by
    including multiple copies of each bead type. Multiple bead type
    copies improve the reliability and accuracy of the resulting
    data by allowing statistical processing of the results of
    identical beads. We believe we are the only microarray company
    to provide this level of quality control in the industry.


 


    An experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as DNA,
    and introducing it to the array. The molecules in the sample
    bind to their matching molecules on the coated beads. The
    molecules in either the sample or on the bead are labeled with
    fluorescent dye either before or after the binding. The iScan or
    BeadArray Reader detects the fluorescent dye by shining a laser
    on the fiber optic bundle or on the BeadChip. This allows the
    detection of the molecules resulting in a quantitative analysis
    of the sample.


 



    VeraCode
    Technology


 


    Our proprietary VeraCode technology platform leverages the power
    of digital holographic codes to provide a robust detection
    method for multiplex assays requiring high precision, accuracy
    and speed.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Commercially launched in March of 2007 for the research market,
    VeraCode enables low-cost multiplexing from 1 to 384-plex in a
    single well. At the heart of the VeraCode technology are
    cylindrical glass beads measuring 240 microns in length by 28
    microns in diameter. Each VeraCode bead type is inscribed with a
    unique digital holographic code to designate and track the
    specific analyte or genotype of interest throughout the
    multiplex reaction. We believe the up to 24 bits of information
    inscribed in each code allows for an unprecedented level of
    error checking, improves the robustness of the optical readout
    process and provides a level of reliability that sets a new
    standard in multiplex testing. Unlike traditional microarrays,
    the VeraCode microbeads are used in solution, which takes
    advantage of solution-phase kinetics for more rapid
    hybridization times, dramatically reducing the time to achieve
    results. This technology enables us to serve a number of markets
    including research, agriculture, forensics, pharmaceuticals and
    molecular diagnostics.


 



    Our
    Products


 


    Using our proprietary technologies, our products give our
    customers the ability to analyze the genome at any level of
    complexity from whole genome sequencing to low multiplex assays.
    This enables us to serve a number of markets, including
    research, agriculture, forensics, pharmaceuticals and molecular
    diagnostics. The majority of our product sales consist of
    instruments and consumables based on these various technologies.
    For the years ended December 28, 2008, December 30,
    2007 and December 31, 2006, instrument sales comprised 32%,
    33% and 23%, respectively, of total revenues and consumable
    sales represented 58%, 53% and 54%, respectively, of total
    revenues.


 


    Our major products include the following:


 



    Instrumentation


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Product


 


 


    Product Description


 


 


    Applications


 


 


    Launch Date





    Genome Analyzer II



 


 


    Instrument for high-throughput (14 — 18Gb per run)
    sequencing using Illumina sequencing by synthesis technology.


 


 


    Whole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression
    discovery and profiling and epigenomics analysis.


 


 


    Q1 2008





    iScan System



 


 


    High-resolution imaging instrument to rapidly scan our BeadArray
    based assays.


 


 


    Array based whole-genome genotyping, gene expression and DNA
    methylation analysis.


 


 


    Q1 2008





    BeadXpress Reader



 


 


    Low- to mid-multiplex, high-throughput instrument for readout of
    assays (e.g., biomarker validation and development of molecular
    diagnostics) deployed on VeraCode bead technology.


 


 


    Low-multiplex genotyping, gene expression and protein analysis.


 


 


    Q1 2007




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 









    
    7



Table of Contents





    Consumables


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Product


 


 


    Product Description


 


 


    Applications


 


 


    Launch Date




    Standard Sequencing Kit


 


 


    Reagents used for sequencing by synthesis chemistry on the
    Genome Analyzer.


 


 


    Whole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression
    discovery and profiling and epigenomics analysis.


 


 


    Q1 2007




    Paired-End Genomic DNA
    Sample Prep Kit


 


 


    Streamlined library preparation kit to generate 200 —
    500 kb insert paired-end reads.


 


 


    Whole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression
    discovery and profiling and epigenomics analysis.


 


 


    Q2 2008




    InfiniumHD Whole-Genome BeadChips


 


 


    Multi-sample DNA Analysis microarrays that interrogate up to 1.2
    million markers per sample. Product line includes Human1M-Duo,
    Human610-Quad, Human660W-Quad and HumanCytoSNP-12.


 


 


    Array based whole-genome genotyping.


 


 


    Q1 — Q4 2008




    iSelect Custom Genotyping BeadChips


 


 


    Customer designable SNP genotyping arrays for 6,000 to 200,000
    markers for use with any species.


 


 


    Array based custom genotyping.


 


 


    Q2 2006




    Whole-Genome Gene Expression BeadChips


 


 


    Multi-sample expression profiling arrays with up-to-date content
    for human, mouse and rat.


 


 


    Gene expression profiling and expression Quantitative Trait Loci
    (QTL) analysis.


 


 


    FY05 — FY08




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



    Our
    Services


 



    Sequencing


 


    We have been offering sequencing services on our Genome
    Analyzers since 2007. Our services range from small sets of
    samples requiring as little as one run to finish, to large-scale
    projects, like whole-genome sequencing, necessitating multiple
    instruments running in parallel for extended periods of time.
    The breadth of applications offered includes novel custom
    products as well as all released products. These applications
    include but are not limited to re-sequencing, de novo
    sequencing, small RNA discovery and profiling, gene expression
    using tag based or using random primed RNA sampling technology,
    ChIP SEQ and methylome interrogation.


 



    Array


 


    We have been offering FastTrack Genotyping Services since 2002.
    Our FastTrack Genotyping Services offers all of our genotyping
    products, including standard and custom GoldenGate, standard
    Infinium and Infinium HD, as well as iSelect Infinium. Our
    projects range in size from a few hundred samples to over 10,000
    samples. Our current capacity peak is 450 million genotypes
    per day. Our customer base includes academic institutions, and
    biotech and pharmaceutical companies.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We have an extensive patent portfolio, including, as of
    February 1, 2009, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to,
    135 issued U.S. patents and 168 pending U.S. patent
    applications, including four allowed applications that have not
    yet issued as patents, some of which derive from a common parent
    application. Our issued patents, which are directed at various
    aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing
    technology, instruments and chemical detection technologies,
    expire between 2010 and 2026. We are seeking



    
    8



Table of Contents




    to extend the patents directed at the full range of our
    technologies. We have received or filed counterparts for many of
    these patents and applications in one or more foreign countries.


 


    We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright and
    trademark protection, as well as continuing technological
    innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain
    our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our
    ability to obtain patent protection for our products and
    processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our
    patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without
    infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and to
    acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products.


 


    We are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license
    agreements and other arrangements with third parties, which
    grant us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing
    technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent
    kits and scanning equipment. We have exclusive licenses from
    Tufts University to patents that are directed at our use of
    BeadArray technology. These patents were filed by Dr. David
    Walt, a member of our board of directors, the Chairman of our
    Scientific Advisory Board and one of our founders. Our exclusive
    licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents,
    which will occur between 2010 and 2020. We also have additional
    nonexclusive licenses from various third parties for other
    components of our products. In most cases, the agreements remain
    in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be
    terminated at our request without further obligation and require
    that we pay customary royalties while the agreement is in effect.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We have made substantial investments in research and development
    since our inception. We have assembled a team of skilled
    engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology,
    chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems,
    software, manufacturing and other related areas required to
    complete the development of our products. Our research and
    development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required
    to optimize our Sequencing, BeadArray, VeraCode and Oligator
    technologies and to support commercialization of the products
    and services derived from these technologies. As of
    December 28, 2008, we had a total of 406 employees
    engaged in research and development activities.


 


    Our research and development expenses for 2008, 2007, and 2006
    (inclusive of charges relating to stock-based compensation of
    $14.1 million, $10.0 million and $3.9 million,
    respectively) were $100.0 million, $73.9 million and
    $33.4 million, respectively. We expect research and
    development expense to increase during 2009 as we continue to
    expand our research and product development efforts.


 



    Marketing
    and Distribution


 


    Our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the
    life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving
    sequencing, SNP genotyping and gene expression profiling. These
    experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research,
    including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug
    discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics and
    agricultural research. Our potential customers include
    pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics and
    consumer products companies, as well as academic or private
    research centers. The genetic analysis market is relatively new
    and emerging and its size and speed of development will be
    ultimately driven by, among other items:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the ability of the research community to extract medically
    valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge
    to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput
    research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation
    required to study genetic variation and biological
    function; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of government and private industry funding to
    perform the research required to extract medically relevant
    information from genomic analysis.





 


    We market and distribute our products directly to customers in
    North America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. In each of these areas,
    we have dedicated sales, service and application support
    personnel responsible for expanding and managing their
    respective customer bases. In smaller markets within Europe and
    Asia-Pacific,



    
    9



Table of Contents




    we sell our products and provide services to customers through
    distributors that specialize in life science products. We expect
    to significantly increase our sales and distribution resources
    during 2009 and beyond as we launch a number of new products and
    expand the number of customers that can use our products.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We manufacture our sequencing and array platforms, reagent kits,
    scanning equipment and oligos. Our manufacturing capacity for
    consumables has grown to support our increased customer demand
    during 2008. In the third quarter of 2008, we began shipping
    BeadChips from our new Singapore facility. We are also focused
    on continuing to enhance the quality and manufacturing yield of
    our Array Matrices, BeadChips and FlowCells. To continue to
    increase throughput and improve the quality and manufacturing
    yield as we increase the complexity of our products, we are
    exploring ways to continue increasing the level of automation in
    the manufacturing process. We adhere to access and safety
    standards required by federal, state and local health
    ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling and disposal
    of hazardous substances.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw
    materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and
    biochemical materials and other supplies. While we have multiple
    commercial sources for many of our components and supplies,
    there are some raw materials we obtain from single source
    suppliers. If we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of
    those or other product components, our business could be
    temporarily interrupted. To mitigate this risk, we can redesign
    our products for alternative components or use alternative
    reagents. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our
    inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase incremental
    inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain.


 



    Competition


 


    Although we expect that our products and services will provide
    significant advantages over products and services currently
    available from other sources, we expect to encounter intense
    competition from other companies that offer products and
    services for the sequencing, SNP genotyping and gene expression
    markets. These include companies such as Affymetrix, Agilent,
    Beckman Coulter, Complete Genomics, Fluidigm, GE Corp., Life
    Technologies, Luminex, Pacific Biosciences, Roche Diagnostics
    and Sequenom. Some of these companies have or will have
    substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other
    resources and larger, more established marketing, sales,
    distribution and service organizations than we do. In addition,
    they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets
    we address and in some cases a larger installed base of systems.
    Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect new
    competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to
    increase. In order to effectively compete with these companies,
    we will need to demonstrate that our products have superior
    throughput, cost and accuracy advantages over competing
    products. Rapid technological development may result in our
    products or technologies becoming obsolete. Products offered by
    us could be made obsolete either by less expensive or more
    effective products based on similar or other technologies.
    Although we believe that our technology and products will offer
    advantages that will enable us to compete effectively with these
    companies, we cannot assure you that we will be successful.


 



    Segment
    and Geographic Information


 


    During the first quarter of 2008, we reorganized our operating
    structure into a newly created Life Sciences Business Unit,
    which includes all products and services related to the research
    market, namely the Sequencing, BeadArray and BeadXpress product
    lines. We also created a Diagnostics Business Unit to focus on
    the emerging opportunity in molecular diagnostics. During 2008,
    we had limited activity related to the Diagnostics Business Unit
    and operating results were reported on an aggregate basis to our
    chief operating decision maker, the chief executive officer.
    Accordingly, we operated in one reportable segment during 2008.


 


    We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside
    the United States, including customers in other areas of North
    America, Europe and Asia-Pacific. Shipments to customers outside
    the United States totaled $293.2 million, or 51% of our
    total revenue during 2008, compared to $159.1 million, or
    43%, and



    
    10



Table of Contents




    $81.5 million, or 44%, in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    Sales to territories outside of the United States were generally
    denominated in U.S. dollars. In 2008, we reorganized our
    international structure to establish more efficient channels
    between product development, product manufacturing and sales.
    The reorganization increased our foreign subsidiaries’
    anticipated dependence on the U.S. entity for management
    decisions, financial support, production assets and inventory
    thereby making the foreign subsidiaries more of a direct and
    integral component of the U.S. entity’s operations. As
    a result, we reassessed the primary economic environment of our
    foreign subsidiaries and determined the subsidiaries are more
    U.S. dollar based, resulting in a U.S. dollar
    functional currency determination. We expect that sales to
    international customers will continue to be an important and
    growing source of revenue. See Note 14 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further information
    concerning our foreign and domestic operations.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown
    significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products
    is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and
    highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as academic
    customers spend unused budget allocations before the end of the
    government’s fiscal year.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are committed to the protection of our employees and the
    environment. Our operations require the use of hazardous
    materials which subject us to a variety of federal, state and
    local environmental and safety laws and regulations. We believe
    we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and
    regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and
    fines should contamination of the environment or individual
    exposures to hazardous substances occur. In addition, we cannot
    predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the
    development of new laws and regulations, will affect our
    business operations or the cost of compliance.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 28, 2008, we had a total of
    1,536 employees. None of our employees are represented by a
    labor union. We consider our employee relations to be positive.
    Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to
    attract and retain employees. In addition, we employ a number of
    temporary and contract employees. We face competition in this
    regard from other companies, research and academic institutions,
    government entities and other organizations.


 



    Executive
    Officers


 


    Our executive officers and their ages as of February 1,
    2009, are as follows:


 


    Jay Flatley, age 56, is President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Illumina. Prior to his appointment in 1999,
    Mr. Flatley was the President and Chief Executive Officer
    of Molecular Dynamics, later acquired by Amersham Pharmacia
    Biotech in 1998 and now a part of GE Healthcare.
    Mr. Flatley, who was a founder and member of the board of
    directors for Molecular Dynamics, lead the company to its
    initial public offering (IPO) in 1993, in addition to helping
    the company develop and launch over 15 major instrumentation
    systems, including the world’s first capillary based DNA
    sequencer. Prior to joining Molecular Dynamics, Mr. Flatley
    was Vice President of Engineering and Strategic Planning for
    Plexus Computers, a manufacturer of high-performance Unix
    super-microcomputers. Before his career at Plexus,
    Mr. Flatley was Executive Vice President for Manning
    Technologies and held various manufacturing positions while
    working for the Autolab division of Spectra Physics.


 


    Christian Henry, age 40, is Senior Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Henry joined
    Illumina in June 2005 and is responsible for worldwide financial
    operations, controllership functions and facilities management.
    In addition, throughout 2008, Mr. Henry was Acting General
    Manager of Illumina’s DNA Sequencing business.
    Mr. Henry served previously as the Chief Financial Officer
    for Tickets.com, a publicly traded, online ticket provider that
    was acquired by Major League Baseball Advanced Media, LP. Prior
    to that,



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Mr. Henry was Vice President, Finance and Corporate
    Controller of Affymetrix, Inc., a publicly traded life sciences
    company, where he oversaw accounting, planning, SEC and
    management reporting, treasury and risk management. He
    previously held a similar position at Nektar Therapeutics
    (formerly Inhale Therapeutic Systems, Inc.).


 


    Christian Cabou, age 60, is Senior Vice
    President, General Counsel and Secretary of Illumina.
    Mr. Cabou joined Illumina in May 2006 and has worldwide
    responsibility for all legal and intellectual property matters.
    Mr. Cabou is also Illumina’s Code of Ethics Compliance
    Officer. Before joining Illumina, Mr. Cabou spent five
    years as General Counsel for GE Global Research and, before
    that, was Senior Counsel of Global Intellectual Property for GE
    Medical Systems. Prior to his position at GE, Mr. Cabou
    spent seven years with the law firm Foley & Lardner
    where he was a partner. He had twenty years of experience in
    engineering design and management prior to his career in law and
    intellectual property.


 


    Greg Heath, age 51, is Senior Vice
    President & General Manager, Diagnostics Business Unit
    of Illumina. Dr. Heath joined Illumina in March 2008 and is
    responsible for managing Illumina’s emerging diagnostics
    business, specifically overseeing the development of diagnostic
    content for the BeadXpress system, and ultimately for
    Illumina’s sequencing platform. Dr. Heath joined
    Illumina from Roche Molecular Systems where he held a number of
    senior executive positions, including head of clinical genomics,
    senior vice president of global product marketing, senior vice
    president of global marketing and business development, and most
    recently, senior vice president of global business. From
    2000 — 2003, Dr. Heath was head of business
    development and licensing for the diagnostics division of F.
    Hoffman La Roche in Basel. Prior to this, Dr. Heath
    held numerous roles in marketing and business development with
    Roche Diagnostics’ U.S. affiliate.


 


    Joel McComb, age 44, is Senior Vice
    President & General Manager, Life Sciences Business
    Unit of Illumina. Mr. McComb joined Illumina in March 2008
    and is responsible for managing all products and services
    related to the research market, namely the Sequencing, BeadArray
    and VeraCode product lines. Mr. McComb joined Illumina from
    GE Healthcare where he held a number of executive positions,
    including president of the interventional medicine business and
    president of life sciences discovery systems. From
    2001 — 2004, Mr. McComb was president, chief
    executive officer and board member of Innovadyne Technologies.
    Prior to Innovadyne, Mr. McComb held various positions at
    Beckman Coulter, including roles as general manager of the
    primary care diagnostic division and director of corporate
    business development.


 


    Tristan Orpin, age 42, is Senior Vice President,
    Commercial Operations of Illumina. Mr. Orpin joined
    Illumina in December 2002 in the role of Vice President of
    Worldwide Sales, and in January of 2007 was promoted to the
    position of Senior Vice President of Commercial Operations.
    Before joining Illumina, Mr. Orpin was Director of Sales
    and Marketing for Sequenom from September 1999 to August 2001.
    Later, Mr. Orpin was elected Vice President of Sales and
    Marketing and held this position from August 2001 to November
    2002. Prior to 2001, Mr. Orpin served in several senior
    sales and marketing positions at Bio-Rad Laboratories.


 


    Mostafa Ronaghi, Ph.D., age 40, is Senior Vice
    President and Chief Technology Officer of Illumina.
    Dr. Ronaghi joined Illumina in August 2008 and is
    responsible for leading internal research programs and
    evaluating new technologies for the Company. In 2007,
    Dr. Ronaghi co-founded Avantome, a privately held
    sequencing company. Before this, he co-founded NextBio, a search
    engine for life science data. In 2001, Dr. Ronaghi
    co-founded ParAllele Bioscience, which was eventually acquired
    by Affymetrix, Inc., and was involved in the development and
    commercialization of highly multiplexed technology for genetic
    testing. In 1997, he co-founded Pyrosequencing AB, which was
    renamed Biotage in 2003. In June 2000, the company completed a
    successful initial public offering on the Stockholm Stock
    Exchange. Dr. Ronaghi was a principal investigator at
    Stanford University from 2002 — 2008 where he focused
    on the development of novel tools for molecular diagnostic
    applications.



    
    12



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    Our business is subject to various risks, including those
    described below. In addition to the other information included
    in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following issues could adversely affect our operating
    results or our stock price.


 



    We
    expect intense competition in our target markets, which could
    render our products obsolete, result in significant price
    reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we
    sell. This would limit our ability to compete and maintain
    profitability. If we cannot continuously develop and
    commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as
    intended.


 


    We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture
    and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function and other applications using technologies,
    capillary electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry,
    microfluidics, nanotechnology, next-generation DNA sequencing
    and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays.
    We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the
    future as existing companies develop new or improved products
    and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. The
    markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing
    technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer
    needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and
    strong price competition. For example, prices per data point for
    genotyping have fallen significantly over the last two years and
    we anticipate that prices will continue to fall. One or more of
    our competitors may render our technology obsolete or
    uneconomical. Some of our competitors have greater financial and
    personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established
    customer base and more experience in research and development
    than we do. Furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical
    companies, which are our potential customers and strategic
    partners, could develop competing products. For example, during
    the third quarter of fiscal 2007, Life Technologies (previously
    referred to as Applied Biosystems Group, a business segment of
    Applera Corporation) launched the
    SOLiDtm

    System, its next generation sequencing technology.
    If we are unable to develop enhancements to our technology and
    rapidly deploy new product offerings, our business, financial
    condition and results of operations will suffer.


 



    Negative
    conditions in global credit markets may result in delayed
    payments from our customers and may negatively impact our
    smaller suppliers.


 


    The recent economic conditions and market turbulence may impact
    the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers.
    Certain of our customers may face challenges gaining timely
    access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment
    of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to
    occur, our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales
    outstanding could increase. Additionally, these economic
    conditions may cause our smaller suppliers to be unable to
    supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized
    components, which would impair our ability to manufacture on
    schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. In addition, due
    to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times,
    limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or
    other factors.


 


    In addition, our business depends on the overall demand for
    methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function. We rely in large part on the research and development
    spending of our customers, which is often discretionary, and the
    recent economic downturn has caused many companies to reduce
    their research and development budgets. If the current worldwide
    economic downturn continues, our customers may delay or reduce
    their purchases of our products and services. A reduction in
    demand will reduce our revenues and harm our profitability.


 



    Due to
    our increasing foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of
    operations.


 


    We are focused on expanding our international operations in key
    markets. We have sales offices located internationally
    throughout Europe and the Asia Pacific region, as well as
    manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom and Singapore.
    During 2008, the majority of our sales to international
    customers and purchases of raw materials from international
    suppliers were denominated in the U.S. dollar. Changes in
    the value of the



    
    13



Table of Contents




    relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items
    required in our operations. Changes in currency exchange rates
    may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell
    products in the same market.


 


    Our revenues from international customers may be negatively
    impacted as increases in the U.S. dollar relative to our
    international customers local currency could make our products
    more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. Our costs of
    materials from international suppliers may increase if in order
    to continue doing business with us they may raise their prices
    as the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to their
    local currency.


 


    Foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could
    result in actions by the United States and other countries to
    offset the effects of such fluctuations. The recent global
    financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in
    foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may
    continue and thus adversely impact our business or financial
    conditions.


 



    If we
    are unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture
    components of our products, we may not be able to launch or
    support our products in a timely manner, or at
    all.


 


    The nature of our products requires customized components that
    currently are available from a limited number of sources. For
    example, we currently use multiple components in our products
    that are single-sourced. If we are unable to secure a sufficient
    supply of those or other product components, we will be unable
    to meet demand for our products. We may need to enter into
    contractual relationships with manufacturers for
    commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop
    these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we
    will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient
    quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. Accordingly, we
    may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume
    manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs.


 



    If we
    lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain
    additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our
    goals.


 


    We are highly dependent on our management and scientific
    personnel, including Jay Flatley, our president and chief
    executive officer. The loss of their services could adversely
    impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We will
    need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in
    molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing,
    sales, marketing and technical support. We compete for qualified
    management and scientific personnel with other life science
    companies, universities and research institutions, particularly
    those focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals,
    particularly in the San Diego and San Francisco area,
    is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. Failure to
    attract and retain management and scientific personnel would
    prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our
    products or technologies.


 


    Our planned activities will require additional expertise in
    specific industries and areas applicable to the products
    developed through our technologies, including the life sciences
    and healthcare industries. Thus, we will need to add new
    personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of
    existing management. The failure to do so could impair the
    growth of our business.


 



    We may
    encounter difficulties in managing our growth. These
    difficulties could impair our profitability.


 


    We have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid
    and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans,
    which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If
    we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our
    profitability could suffer. Our ability to manage our operations
    and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds
    to enhance our operational, financial and management controls,
    reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain
    sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to
    scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process
    and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we
    encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we
    will not be able to make available the products required to
    successfully commercialize our technology. Failure to attract
    and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further
    strain our human resources and could impede our growth.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    A
    significant portion of our sales is to international
    customers.


 


    Shipments to customers outside the United States comprised 51%,
    43% and 44% of our revenue for the years ended December 28,
    2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006,
    respectively. We intend to continue to expand our international
    presence by selling to customers located outside of the
    U.S. and we expect the total amount of
    non-U.S. sales
    to continue to grow. Export sales entail a variety of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts
    receivable outside of the United States;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    tariffs and other trade barriers;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of
    foreign countries into which we import our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other
    trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery
    delays; and




 



     
        • 

    
    significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety
    of foreign laws.





 


    In addition, we are also subject to general geopolitical risks,
    such as political, social and economic instability and changes
    in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and operating results.


 



    We may
    encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions that could
    adversely affect our business, specifically the effective launch
    and customer acceptance of new technology
    platforms.


 


    We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of or
    significant investments in businesses with complementary
    products, services or technologies. Acquisitions involve
    numerous risks, including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies,
    products and personnel of acquired companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies
    and cost-savings;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    revenue and expense levels of acquired entities differing from
    those anticipated at the time of the acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    negative near-term impacts on financial results after an
    acquisition;




 



     
        • 

    
    the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic
    partners of acquired companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired
    companies or other third parties related to the transaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of
    additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial
    portions of our cash;




 



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management’s attention from normal daily
    operations of the business;




 



     
        • 

    
    inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and
    policies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological
    advancements, or
    worse-than-expected
    performance of acquired companies;





 


    Acquisitions and other transactions are inherently risky and our
    previous or future transactions may not be successful. The
    inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these
    transactions could materially and adversely affect our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Any
    inability to protect effectively our proprietary technologies
    could harm our competitive position.


 


    Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents
    and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in
    the United States and other countries. If we do not protect our
    intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use
    our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage.
    The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary
    rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and
    many companies have encountered significant challenges in
    protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These challenges can
    be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the
    establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights
    abroad.


 


    The patent positions of companies developing tools for the life
    sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent
    position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and
    factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary
    rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent
    that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and
    enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade
    secrets. We intend to apply for patents covering our
    technologies and products as we deem appropriate. However, our
    patent applications may be challenged and may not result in
    issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after
    they are issued. Questions as to inventorship may also arise.
    Any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable
    could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the
    related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship
    rights to our patents and applications could require us to
    obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which
    may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.


 


    In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we
    obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from
    practicing our technologies or from developing competing
    products. There also is risk that others may independently
    develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our
    patented technologies. Also, our patents may fail to provide us
    with any competitive advantage. We may need to initiate lawsuits
    to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third
    party claims, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may
    cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and
    reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. Furthermore,
    these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and
    technical personnel.


 


    We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential
    and proprietary information and have taken security measures to
    protect this information. These measures, however, may not
    provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other
    confidential information. Among other things, we seek to protect
    our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into
    confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and
    consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or
    consultants may still disclose our confidential information, and
    we may not otherwise be able to protect effectively our trade
    secrets. Accordingly, others may gain access to our confidential
    information, or may independently develop substantially
    equivalent information or techniques.


 



    Litigation
    or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual
    property infringement could require us to spend significant time
    and money and could prevent us from selling our products or
    services or impact our stock price.


 


    Our commercial success depends, in part, on our non-infringement
    of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and on our
    ability to protect our own intellectual property. Third parties
    have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing
    their proprietary technology without authorization. As we enter
    new markets, we expect that competitors will likely claim that
    our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part
    of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those
    markets. In addition, third parties may have obtained and may in
    the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of
    our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur
    substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and
    technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these
    claims. Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in
    defending ourselves against these claims could have a material
    adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate
    to the actual import of the ruling itself. Furthermore, parties
    making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or
    other relief, which effectively could block our ability to
    develop further, commercialize and sell products, and could
    result in the



    
    16



Table of Contents




    award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a
    successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required
    to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third
    parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. In
    addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a
    reasonable cost, if at all. We could therefore incur substantial
    costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from
    third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins.
    In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions
    while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products.
    Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these
    licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from
    commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of
    our products could materially affect our ability to grow and
    maintain profitability.


 



    Changes
    in our effective income tax rate could impact our
    profitability.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments based on
    interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required
    in determining the provision for income taxes. Our effective
    income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors
    including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in
    tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in
    the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in
    existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of
    non-deductible expenses including share-based compensation,
    changes in our future levels of research and development
    spending, mergers and acquisitions, and the result of
    examinations by various tax authorities.


 



    If we
    are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop
    and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may
    not be able to launch or support our products in a timely
    manner, or at all.


 


    We continue to ramp up our capacity to meet the anticipated
    demand for our products. Although we have significantly
    increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have
    plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to
    meet our business plan for 2009, there are uncertainties
    inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may
    not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. For
    example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as
    we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and
    launch new products. As a result, we may experience difficulties
    in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which
    case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product
    introductions, and demand for our products could decline.
    Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in
    manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced
    production yields. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing
    products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or
    previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that
    could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability
    to launch or sell these products, or to produce them
    economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance
    levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by
    customers.


 


    Additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of
    locations. Our manufacturing facilities are located in
    San Diego and Hayward, California; Singapore; and Little
    Chesterford, United Kingdom. These areas are subject to natural
    disasters such as earthquakes or floods. If a natural disaster
    were to significantly damage one of our facilities or if other
    events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to
    manufacture our products, provide our services or develop new
    products.


 


    Also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are
    controlled by our custom-designed Laboratory Information
    Management System (LIMS). Additionally, the decoding process in
    our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage
    infrastructure. If either our LIMS system, or our networks or
    storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of
    time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our
    products on a timely basis and would prevent us from achieving
    our expected shipments in any given period.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    We
    expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. This
    fluctuation could cause our stock price to
    decline.


 


    Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of
    sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact
    of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research
    projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending
    levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable
    factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the
    difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for
    our products and services, we may experience
    quarter-to-quarter
    fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a
    sequential decline in quarterly revenue. A large portion of our
    expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities,
    equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect operating
    expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute
    dollars. Accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated,
    we may not be able to maintain annual profitability. Any
    significant delays in the commercial launch of our products,
    unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or
    impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely
    affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline
    in quarterly revenue. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in
    our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons
    of our operating results are not a good indication of our future
    performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet
    the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our
    stock price could decline.


 



    Our
    success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of
    markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function.


 


    We design our products primarily for applications in the life
    sciences and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our
    technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data
    and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are
    focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function, namely sequencing, SNP genotyping and gene
    expression profiling. These markets are new and emerging, and
    they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their
    full potential. Other methods of analysis of genetic variation
    and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we
    are developing. Also, researchers may not seek or be able to
    convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information
    through the analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function. In addition, factors affecting research and
    development spending generally, such as changes in the
    regulatory environment affecting life sciences and
    pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs
    that provide funding to companies and research institutions,
    could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available
    or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner,
    demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we
    expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability.


 



    Loss
    of the tax deduction on our outstanding convertible
    notes.


 


    We could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest
    expense associated with our $400.0 million aggregate
    principal amount of convertible notes due in 2014 if the
    foregoing notes are not subject to the special Treasury
    Regulations governing integration of certain debt instruments,
    the notes are converted, or we invest in non-taxable investments.


 



    We may
    not be able to sustain operating profitability.


 


    Prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our
    inception, and in 2007 we reported a net loss of
    $278.4 million, reflecting significant charges associated
    with our acquisition of Solexa in January 2007 and the
    settlement of our litigation with Affymetrix. As of
    December 28, 2008, our accumulated deficit was
    $332.5 million. Our ability to sustain profitability will
    depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue
    and on the level of our expenses. Non-cash stock-based
    compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future
    acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our
    future profitability. We expect to continue incurring
    significant expenses related to research and development, sales
    and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the
    continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. In
    addition, we expect that our research and development and
    selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in
    the future as a result of the development and launch of new
    products. Although we have regained profitability, we may not be
    able to sustain profitability on a quarterly basis.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Negative
    conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity
    of a portion of our investment portfolio.


 


    Our investment securities consist of marketable debt securities,
    including treasury bills and commercial paper with strong credit
    ratings, corporate bonds and short maturity mutual funds
    providing similar financial returns. Additionally, as of
    December 28, 2008, we had $55.9 million of auction
    rate securities issued primarily by municipalities and
    universities. These securities are debt instruments with a
    long-term maturity and with an interest rate that is reset in
    short intervals through auctions. Our entire auction rate
    portfolio is held in a brokerage account with UBS Financial
    Services, Inc., a subsidiary of UBS AG (UBS) and is currently
    rated AAA or AA by a rating agency. Beginning in February 2008,
    these auction rate securities became illiquid because their
    scheduled auctions failed to settle. An auction failure occurs
    when the parties wishing to sell securities at auction cannot.
    As of December 28, 2008, the securities continued to fail
    auction and remained illiquid.


 


    Various regulatory agencies initiated investigations into the
    sales and marketing practices of several banks and
    broker-dealers, including UBS, which sold auction rate
    securities, alleging violations of federal and state laws. Along
    with several other broker-dealers, UBS subsequently reached a
    settlement with the federal and state regulators that required
    them to repurchase auction rate securities from certain
    investors at par at some future date. In November 2008, we
    signed a settlement agreement to sell our auction rate
    securities at par value to UBS during the period of
    June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012.


 


    The settlement agreement with UBS and the associated put option
    mitigates the risk of loss on our auction rate security
    portfolio. However, given the negative conditions in the global
    credit markets there is still risk that UBS may not be able to
    fulfill its obligation.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B