Item 1A “Risk Factors” below, or in information disclosed in public conference calls, the date and time of which are released beforehand.  Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this annual report.  We undertake no obligation, and do not intend, to update or revise forward-looking statements publicly, to review or confirm analysts’ expectations, or to provide interim reports or updates on the progress of any current financial quarter, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this annual report.  Given these uncertainties, we caution investors not to rely unduly on our forward-looking statements.   2Available InformationOur annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website, www.illumina.com.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report.  Such reports are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with, or furnishing to, the SEC.  The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that electronically file with the SEC.  Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K will be made available, free of charge, upon written request.  _______________________________________Illumina®, BaseSpace®, BeadArray, BlueGnome®, cBot, CSPro®, DASL®, DesignStudio, Epicentre®, ForenSeq, Genetic Energy®, GenomeStudio®, GoldenGate®, HiScan®, HiSeq®, HiSeq X, Infinium®, iScan®, iSelect®, MiSeq®, MiSeqDx®, MiSeq FGx, NeoPrep, NextBio®, Nextera®, NextSeq®, SeqMonitor, TruGenome, TruSeq®, TruSight®, Understand Your Genome®, UYG®, VeraCode®, verifi®, VeriSeq, the pumpkin orange color, and the Genetic Energy streaming bases design are certain of our trademarks.  This report also contains brand names, trademarks, or service marks of companies other than Illumina, and these brand names, trademarks, and service marks are the property of their respective holders.  _______________________________________Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this annual report on Form 10-K to “Illumina,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Illumina, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   3PART IITEM 1.    Business.OverviewWe are the global leader in sequencing-and array-based solutions for genetic analysis.  Our solutions serve customers in a wide range of markets, enabling the broad adoption of genomics solutions in research and clinical settings.  We were incorporated in California in April 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000.  Our principal executive offices are located at 5200 Illumina Way, San Diego, California 92122.  Our telephone number is (858) 202-4500.  Our customers include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, hospitals, and reference laboratories as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, commercial molecular diagnostic, and consumer genomics companies.  Our portfolio of integrated systems, consumables, and analysis tools is designed to accelerate and simplify genetic analysis.  This portfolio addresses a range of genomic complexity, price points, and throughput, enabling customers to select the best solution for their research or clinical challenge.  Our leading-edge sequencing instruments can efficiently perform a broad range of nucleic-acid (DNA, RNA) analyses across a wide range of sample sizes.  To provide our customers with more comprehensive sample-to-answer solutions, we acquired several companies: NextBio, a leader in clinical and genomic informatics, in November 2013, Advanced Liquid Logic Inc., a leader in digital microfluidics and liquid handling solutions, in July 2013, and Epicentre Technologies Corporation, a leading provider of nucleic-acid sample preparation reagents and specialty enzymes for sequencing and array applications, in January 2011.  Over the last few years, we have made key acquisitions to enable our goal of becoming a leader in the clinical market.  These include Myraqa, Inc. in July 2014, Verinata Health, Inc. in February 2013, and BlueGnome Ltd. in September 2012.  Our acquisition of Myraqa bolstered our regulatory and quality capabilities and enhanced our leadership team in molecular and companion diagnostics.  The acquisition of Verinata strengthened our reproductive health portfolio by adding the Verinata verifi prenatal test, a comprehensive noninvasive prenatal test (NIPT) for high-risk pregnancies.  Our acquisition of BlueGnome, a leading provider of genetic solutions for screening chromosomal abnormalities and genetic variations associated with developmental delay and infertility, expanded our ability to offer integrated solutions in reproductive health and cancer.  Genetics PrimerThe instruction set for all living cells is encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA.  The complete set of DNA for any organism is referred to as its genome.  DNA contains small regions called genes, which comprise a string of nucleotide bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine, respectively.  These nucleotide bases occur in a precise order known as the DNA sequence.  When a gene is “expressed,” a partial copy of its DNA sequence called messenger RNA (mRNA) is used as a template to direct the synthesis of a particular protein.  Proteins, in turn, direct all cellular function.  The illustration below is a simplified gene expression schematic.   4Table of ContentsVariations among organisms are due, in large part, to differences in their DNA sequences.  Changes can result from insertions, deletions, inversions, translocations, or duplications of nucleotide bases.  These changes may result in certain genes becoming over-expressed (excessive protein production), under-expressed (reduced protein production), or silenced altogether, sometimes triggering changes in cellular function.  These changes can be the result of heredity, but most often they occur at random.  The most common form of variation in humans is called a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), which is a base change in a single position in a DNA sequence.  Another type of variation, copy number variations (CNVs), occur when there are fewer or more copies of certain genes, segments of a gene, or stretches of DNA.  In humans, genetic variation accounts for many of the physical differences we see (e.g., height, hair, eye color, etc.).  Genetic variations also can have medical consequences affecting disease susceptibility, including predisposition to complex genetic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer’s disease.  They can affect individual response to certain drug treatments, causing patients to experience adverse side effects, or to respond well or not at all. Scientists are studying these variations and their consequences in humans, as well as in a broad range of animals, plants, and microorganisms.  Such research takes place in government, university, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and agrigenomics laboratories around the world, where scientists expand our knowledge of the biological functions essential for life.  Beginning at the genetic level, Illumina tools are used to elucidate the correlation between gene sequence and biological processes.  Life-science research includes the study of the cells, tissues, organs, systems, and other components of living organisms.  This research supports the development of new treatments to improve human health.  Examples include more tailored clinical treatments, often referred to as precision medicine, as well as advances in agriculture and animal husbandry to meet growing needs for food and energy.  Researchers who investigate human, viral, and bacterial genetic variation to understand the mechanisms of disease are enabling the development of more effective diagnostics and therapeutics.  They also provide greater insight into genetic variation in plants (e.g., food and biofuel crops) and animals (e.g., livestock and domestic), enabling improvements in crop yields and animal breeding programs.By empowering genetic analysis and facilitating a deeper understanding of genetic variation and function, our tools advance disease research, drug development, and the creation of molecular diagnostic tests.  We believe that this will trigger a fundamental shift in the practice of medicine and health care.  The increased emphasis on preventive and predictive molecular medicine will usher in the era of precision health care.  Our Principal MarketsOur business units are aligned to target the markets and customers outlined below.  Life SciencesHistorically, our core business has been in the life sciences research market, which includes laboratories associated with universities, medical research centers, and government institutions, along with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies.  Researchers at these institutions use our products and services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities for basic analysis and research, including de novo sequencing, genetic variation analysis, gene expression analysis, epigenetics, genome wide association studies, and targeted screening.  Increasingly, these techniques are migrating to next-generation sequencing (NGS) due to the improved performance, reduced complexity, and declining costs of NGS technologies.  Both private and public funding drive this research, along with global initiatives to characterize genetic variation and the migration of legacy genetic applications to sequencing-based technologies.  We also provide products and services for other life sciences applied markets such as agrigenomics.  Government and corporate researchers use our sequencing and array-based tools to accelerate and enhance agricultural research.  Identifying desirable traits in plants and animals leads to healthier and more productive crops and livestock.  Reproductive and Genetic HealthIllumina technologies and products provide reproductive-health solutions, including preimplantation genetic screening (PGS), preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD), noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT), and neonatal and genetic health testing.  Our PGS solutions are used with in-vitro fertilization (IVF) to determine, before implantation, whether an embryo has an abnormal number of chromosomes, which is a major cause of IVF failure and miscarriages.  Our PGD solutions identify, before implantation, which embryos are free from gene variants associated with genetic diseases.  Our NIPT solutions provide noninvasive tests for early identification of fetal chromosomal abnormalities by analyzing cell-free DNA in maternal blood.  5Table of ContentsOncologyCancer is a disease of the genome, and the goal of cancer genomics is to identify genomic changes that transform a normal cell into a cancerous one.  Understanding these genomic changes allow for a more accurate diagnosis, a better understanding of the prognosis, and the ability to target therapies to individuals.  Researchers and clinicians in the research, translational, and clinical oncology markets use Illumina sequencing and array-based solutions to identify the molecular changes in a tumor during all stages of tumor progression.  Our solutions help transform discoveries into new treatments or therapies and create tests to predict patient response.To advance genomic-based precision health care, we are working with leading pharmaceutical companies to develop a universal NGS-based oncology test system for clinical trials of targeted cancer therapies.  The goal is to develop and commercialize a multi-gene panel for “companion therapeutic” selection.  We are also working with key thought leaders to set standards for NGS-based assays in routine clinical oncology practice and to define regulatory frameworks for this new testing paradigm.Enterprise InformaticsEnterprise informatics solutions increase the utility of genomic data by allowing customers to aggregate, analyze, archive, and share genomic data.  Integrating our instruments with data-analysis software solutions allows customers to go from their biological sample, through the raw genomic data, to meaningful results.  Our BaseSpace platform, which can be hosted onsite or in the cloud, integrates directly with our sequencing instruments.  It facilitates data sharing, provides data storage solutions, and streamlines sequencing-data analysis through a growing number of data-analysis applications from Illumina and the bioinformatics community.  In 2013, we acquired NextBio, which provides a platform for aggregating and analyzing large quantities of genomic and phenotypic data.  Translational research uses this approach to optimize drug therapies and identify trends in overall patient outcomes.  We believe that large-scale genomic databases containing genomic and phenotypic information will enhance the value of human genome sequencing and accelerate the pace of discovery.  New and Emerging OpportunitiesOur markets change rapidly in response to genomic innovations.  New applications and opportunities develop and evolve quickly.  We assess these against our corporate strategies and consider whether there is a compelling unmet need together with a strong opportunity to transform the market.  Some of the markets that provide immediate and near-term opportunities to expand the use of next-generation sequencing include:  •Transplant diagnostics, where sequencing is used to evaluate donor and patient compatibility;•Forensic genomics, where sequencing is used to investigate criminal cases; and•Consumer genomics, where genotyping is used primarily to reveal ancestry and genealogical linkage information.Our Principal Products and TechnologiesOur unique technology platforms support the scale of experimentation necessary for population-scale studies, genome-wide discovery, target selection, and validation studies (see Figure 1 below).  Customers use our products to analyze the genome at all levels of complexity, from whole-genome sequencing to targeted panels.  A large and dynamic Illumina user community has published more than 10,000 customer-authored scientific papers using our technologies.  Through rapid innovation, we are changing the economics of genetic research, enabling projects that were previously considered impossible, and supporting clinical advances towards precision medicine.Most of our product sales consist of instruments and consumables (which include reagents, flow cells, and microarrays) based on our proprietary technologies.  For the fiscal years ended December 28, 2014, December 29, 2013, and December 30, 2012, instrument sales comprised 30%, 26%, and 27%, respectively, of total revenues, and consumable sales represented 56%, 62%, and 64%, respectively, of total revenues.     6Table of ContentsFigure 1: Illumina Platform Overview:  Sequencing DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample.  Our portfolio of sequencing platforms represents a family of systems that we believe set the standard for productivity, cost-effectiveness, and accuracy among NGS technologies.  Customers use our platforms to perform whole-genome, de novo, and exome sequencing, and targeted resequencing of specific gene regions and genes.  Whole-genome sequencing determines the complete DNA sequence of an organism.  In de novo sequencing, the goal is to sequence and analyze a sample without using information from prior sequencing of that species.  In targeted resequencing, a portion of the sequence of an organism is compared to a standard or reference sequence from previously sequenced samples to identify genetic variation.  Understanding the similarities and differences in DNA sequence between and within species helps us understand the function of the structures encoded in the DNA.  Our DNA sequencing technology is based on our proprietary reversible terminator-based sequencing chemistry, referred to as sequencing by synthesis (SBS) biochemistry.  SBS tracks the addition of labeled nucleotides as the DNA chain is copied in a massively parallel fashion.  Our SBS sequencing technology provides researchers with a broad range of applications and the ability to sequence even large mammalian genomes in days rather than weeks or years.  Our sequencing platforms can generate between 500 megabases (Mb) and 1.8 terabases (Tb) (equivalent to 16 human genomes) of genomic data, depending on the instrument and application.  There are different price points per gigabase (Gb) for each instrument, and for different applications, which range from small-genome, amplicon, and targeted gene-panel sequencing to population-scale whole human genome sequencing.  Since we launched our first sequencing system in 2007, our systems have reduced the cost of sequencing by more than a factor of 10,000.  In addition, the sequencing time per Gb has dropped by a factor of nearly 2,000.  ArraysArrays are used for a broad range of DNA and RNA analysis applications, including SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression analysis, and methylation analysis, and allows for the detection of up to 5,000,000 known genetic markers on a single array.   Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously.   This facilitates large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function in a uniquely high-throughput, cost-effective, and flexible manner.  Using our BeadArray technology, we achieve high-throughput analysis via a high density of test sites per array and the ability to format arrays in various configurations.  We maximize cost effectiveness by reducing expensive consumables, valuable sample input requirements, and manufacturing costs. Varying the size, shape, and format of the well patterns and creating specific beadpools for different  7Table of Contentsapplications lets us address multiple markets and market segments.  Our HiScan and iScan array scanner systems, and our NextSeq 550 system, which we announced in January 2015, image the arrays.ConsumablesWe have developed various library preparation and sequencing kits to simplify workflows and accelerate analysis.  Our sequencing applications include whole-genome sequencing kits, which sequence entire genomes of any size and complexity, and targeted resequencing kits, which can sequence exomes, specific genes, or other genomic regions of interest.  Our sequencing kits maximize the ability of our customers to characterize the target genome accurately.  Through our acquisition of Epicentre Technologies Corporation in 2011, we acquired the proprietary Nextera technology for next-generation sequencing library preparation.  This technology has enabled us to reduce sample input requirements, simplify genetic analysis workflows, and significantly reduce the time from sample preparation to answer.  Customers use Illumina array-based genotyping consumables for a wide range of analyses, including diverse species, disease-related mutations, and genetic characteristics associated with cancer.  Customers can select from a range of human, animal, and agriculturally relevant genome panels or create their own custom arrays to investigate up to 5,000,000 genetic markers targeting any species.  Our ServicesIn addition to selling products, we provide genotyping, NIPT, and whole-genome sequencing services.  Human whole-genome sequencing services are provided through our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory.  We began offering genotyping services to academic institutions, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical customers in 2002, and added sequencing services in 2007.  Using our FastTrack services, customers can perform whole-genome sequencing projects (including phasing and long-read sequencing services) and microarray projects (including large-scale genotyping studies and whole-genome association studies).  We also provide NIPT services through our partner laboratories that direct samples to us on a test send-out basis.Intellectual PropertyWe have an extensive intellectual property portfolio.  As of February 1, 2015, we own or have exclusive licenses to 473 issued U.S. patents and 421 pending U.S. patent applications, including 19 allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents.  Our issued patents cover various aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, digital microfluidics, and chemical-detection technologies, and have terms that expire between 2015 and 2035.  We continue to file new patent applications to protect the full range of our technologies.  We have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these patents and applications in foreign countries.  We protect trade secrets, know-how, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position.  Our success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for our products and processes, preserving trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks, operating without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and acquiring licenses for technology or products.  We are party to various exclusive and nonexclusive license agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant us rights to use key aspects of our sequencing and array technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits, and scanning equipment.  Our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2015 and 2030.  We have additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third parties for other components of our products.  In most cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties.  Research and DevelopmentIllumina has historically made substantial investments in research and development.  Our research and development efforts prioritize continuous innovation coupled with product evolution.  Research and development expenses for fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012 were $388.1 million, $276.7 million, and $231.0 million, respectively.  We expect research and development expense to increase during 2015 to support business growth and continuing expansion in research and product-development efforts.   8Table of ContentsMarketing and DistributionWe market and distribute our products directly to customers in North America, Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific region.  In each of these areas, dedicated sales, service, and application-support personnel are expanding and supporting their respective customer bases.  In addition, we sell through life-science distributors in certain markets within Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America, the Middle East, and South Africa.  We expect to continue increasing our sales and distribution resources during 2015 and beyond as we launch new products and expand our potential customer base.  ManufacturingIllumina manufactures sequencing and array platforms, reagent kits, and scanning equipment.  In 2014, we continued to increase our manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand.  To address increasing product complexity and volume, we are automating manufacturing processes to accelerate throughput and improve quality and yield.  Illumina is committed to providing medical devices and related services that consistently meet customer and applicable regulatory requirements.  We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances.  Our key manufacturing and distribution facilities operate under a quality management system certified to ISO 13485.  Raw MaterialsOur manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and biochemical materials, and other supplies.  Multiple commercial sources provide many of our components and supplies, but there are some raw materials and components that we obtain from single-source suppliers.  To manage potential risks arising from single source suppliers, we believe that we could redesign our products using alternative components or for use with alternative reagents, if necessary.  In addition, while we attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain.  If the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products.  CompetitionAlthough we believe that our products and services provide significant advantages over products and services currently available from other sources, we expect continued intense competition.  Our competitors offer products and services for sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression, and molecular diagnostics markets.  They include companies such as Affymetrix, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., BGI, Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc., QIAGEN N.V., Roche Holding AG., and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., among others.  Some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources than we do, along with larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service organizations.  In addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we address, and in some cases a larger installed base of systems.  We expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase.  To compete effectively, we must scale our organization and infrastructure appropriately and demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost, and accuracy.  Segment and Geographic InformationIn accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for segment reporting, we have determined that we have one reportable segment for purposes of recording and reporting our financial results.  We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside the United States, including customers in other areas of North America, Latin America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region.  Shipments to customers outside the United States totaled $910.7 million, or 49% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2014, compared to $706.5 million, or 50%, and $580.1 million, or 51%, in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively.  The U.S. dollar has been determined to be the functional currency of the Company’s international operations due to the primary activities of our foreign subsidiaries.  We expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue.  See note “13. Segment Information, Geographic Data, and Significant Customers” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information concerning our foreign and domestic operations.   9Table of ContentsBacklogOur backlog was approximately $540 million and $330 million as of December 28, 2014, and December 29, 2013, respectively.  Approximately $130 million of our backlog as of December 28, 2014, was associated with the Genomics England sequencing services project, the delivery of which is expected to be completed by the end of 2017.  Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance-sheet date.  However, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products.  The timing of shipments depends on several factors, including agreed upon shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and whether the product is catalog or custom.  We expect most of the backlog as of December 28, 2014, to be shipped within the fiscal year ending January 3, 2016, with the exception of the Genomics England backlog.  Although we generally recognize revenue upon the transfer of title to a customer, some customer agreements or applicable accounting treatments might require us to defer the recognition of revenue beyond title transfer. Environmental MattersWe are committed to the protection of our employees and the environment.  Our operations require the use of hazardous materials that subject us to various federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations.  We believe that we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations.  However, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur.  In addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance.  Government RegulationAs we expand product lines to address the diagnosis of disease, regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries will become an increasingly significant factor in development, testing, production, and marketing.  Products that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries.  In the United States, certain of our products may require FDA clearance following a pre-market notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA before marketing.  The shorter 510(k) clearance process, which we used for the FDA-cleared assays that are run on our FDA-regulated MiSeqDx instrument, generally takes from three to six months after submission, but it can take significantly longer.  The longer PMA process is much more costly and uncertain.  It generally takes from 9 to 18 months after a complete filing, but it can take significantly longer and typically requires conducting clinical studies, which are not always needed for a 510(k) clearance.  All of the products that are currently regulated by the FDA as medical devices are also subject to the FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR).  Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals, including the FDA quality system inspections that are required for PMA approval, can be expensive and may involve considerable delay.  We cannot be certain which of our planned molecular diagnostic products will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process and, in fact, some of our products may need to go through the PMA process.  The regulatory approval process for such products may be significantly delayed, may be significantly more expensive than anticipated, and may conclude without such products being approved by the FDA.  Without timely regulatory approval, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products.  Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products.  This may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory approval of our products.  In addition, the FDA may introduce new requirements that may change the regulatory requirements for either or both Illumina or Illumina customers.  If our products labeled as “Research Use Only,” or RUO, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain.  This is true even if such use by our customers occurs without our consent.  If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.  Illumina products sold as medical devices in Europe will be regulated under the In Vitro Diagnostics Directive (98/79/EC).  This regulation includes requirements for both presentation and review of performance data and quality-system requirements.Certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments (CLIA) of 1988.  These products are commonly called “laboratory developed tests,” or  10Table of ContentsLDTs.  For a number of years, the FDA has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion to not regulate LDTs as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory.  However, as discussed in more detail under “Risk Factors,” the FDA is reexamining this regulatory approach and changes to the agency’s handling of LDTs could impact our business in ways that cannot be predicted at this time.  Certification of CLIA laboratories includes standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, and quality control procedures. CLIA also mandates that, for high complexity labs such as ours, to operate as a lab, we must have an accreditation by an organization recognized by CLIA such as the College of Pathologists (CAP), which we have obtained and must maintain.  If we were to lose our CAP accreditation, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.  In addition, state laboratory licensing and inspection requirements may also apply to our products, which, in some cases, are more stringent than CLIA requirements.    EmployeesAs of December 28, 2014, we had more than 3,700 employees.  We consider our employee relations to be positive.  Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees.  In addition, we employ a number of temporary and contract employees.  We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations.  ITEM 1A.Risk Factors.Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below.  In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price.  If we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected.We face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested.  If our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer.  If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date.  The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.In addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs with respect to newly launched products (or products in development), which could adversely affect sales of our existing products.  For instance, in January 2015 we announced significant expansions to our sequencing instrument platforms, the HiSeq X Five system and the HiSeq 3000/4000 systems.  When we introduce new or enhanced products, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions, including the inability to accurately forecast demand (including with respect to our existing products), manage excess and obsolete inventories, address new or higher product cost structures, and manage different sales and support requirements due to the type or complexity of the new or enhanced products.  Announcements of currently planned or other new products may cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our products until new products become available.  Our failure to effectively manage product transitions or introductions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  We face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell.We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide-range of competing technologies.  We anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies.  One or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical.  Some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do.  Furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products.  We believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors.  To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer.   11Table of ContentsThe market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise.  Established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products.  In addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests.  Our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function.We design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries.  The usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease.  We are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling.  These markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential.  Other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing.  Also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information. In addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business.  If useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect.  Our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products.Our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions.  Accordingly, our continued growth depends on developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis.  If we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors.  We believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made.  To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain.  An inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business.  In the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products.  There can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies.  Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include:  •availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services; •the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services;  •the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services;  •scientists’ and customers’ opinions of the utility of new products or services;  •citation of new products or services in published research;  •regulatory trends and approvals; and  •general trends in life sciences research and applied markets.  We may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace.   12Table of ContentsIf defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, our products may be subject to recalls, customers may not purchase our products, our reputation may suffer, and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted.Our products incorporate complex, precision-manufactured mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and fluidics, as well as computer software, any of which may contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced.  In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products.  In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment.  Identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur.  Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex genomic analysis, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects.  If we do not meet applicable regulatory or quality standards, our products may be subject to recall, and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to notify applicable regulatory authorities about a recall.  If our products are subject to recall or shipment holds, our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.Litigation, other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services.Our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties.  Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization.  As we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition.  In addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents.  We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims.  Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual impact of the ruling itself.  Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us.  In the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products or services.  In addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all.  We could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings per share.  In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products.  Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability.  We depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or components and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all.The complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured components and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some components and materials, from only a single source.  If deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these components or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products.  We may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms.  In addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier.  The time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources, or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results.  Accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all.  In addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements.  Current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply  13Table of Contentsof components and materials used in production or increase our costs.  Any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Unforeseen problems with the implementation and maintenance of our information systems could have an adverse effect on our operations.As a part of our ongoing effort to upgrade our current information systems, we are implementing new enterprise resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of our business operations.  As we implement and add functionality, problems could arise that we have not foreseen, including interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality.  Such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders, and otherwise run our business in a timely manner.  In addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins.  As a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.  Reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue.The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide as governments in the United States and Europe, in particular, focus on reducing fiscal deficits while at the same time confronting uncertain economic growth.  Funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries.  Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable.  Other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority.  These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the U.S. National Institute of Health, or NIH.  Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced NIH and other research and development allocations.  Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies.As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations:  •difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel;  •lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings;  •difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations;  •underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid;•negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges;  •the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies;  •claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction;  •the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash;  •diversion of management’s attention and company resources from existing operations of the business;   14Table of Contents•inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies;  •the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and  •assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify.  In addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies.  There can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable.  Our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all.  If we are unable to increase our manufacturing or service capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing or service capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products or services in a timely manner, or at all.We continue to rapidly increase our manufacturing and service capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products.  Although we have significantly increased our manufacturing and service capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing and service capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner.  For example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products.  Also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products.  As a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline.  Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products.  Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers.  An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials due to a catastrophic disaster or infrastructure could adversely affect our business.We currently manufacture in a limited number of locations.  Our manufacturing facilities are located in San Diego and the San Francisco Bay Area in California; Madison, Wisconsin; and Singapore.  These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods.  If a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products.  In addition, if the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products.Many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (LIMS).  Additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure.  If either our LIMS system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period.We also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers; sell our products and services; fulfill orders; bill, collect, and make payments; ship products; provide services and support to customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise conduct business.  Our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems.  .  Certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality.  Despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial results. 15Table of ContentsIf we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals.We are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including Jay Flatley, our Chief Executive Officer.  The loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives.  In addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support.  We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities, and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics.  Competition for these individuals, particularly in the San Diego and San Francisco areas, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high.  Failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies.  Additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave.  Further, we use share-based compensation, including restricted stock units and performance stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with those of the Company by building long-term stockholder value.  If our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee’s incentive to stay.  Any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position.The proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, forensics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions.  Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and other countries.  The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the United States.  These challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the United States.  We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets.  Any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.  Furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue.  In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage.  We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace.  Furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel.  There is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies.  In that regard, certain patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months.  We also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information.  These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information. Security breaches, including with respect to cyber-security, and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer.In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information, and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks.  The secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions.  As a leader in the field of genetic analysis, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers; sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products, and services; misappropriate our or our customers' and partners' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information; or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services.  Any such breach could  16Table of Contentscompromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation.  Our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome.Our products are not subject to FDA clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease.  However, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as our FDA-regulated MiSeqDx, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the FDA, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed.  Such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results.  In addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.  Molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable international agencies and may require either clearance from the FDA following the 510(k) pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the FDA, in each case prior to marketing.  Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay.  If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all.  In addition, if our products labeled as “Research Use Only,” or RUO, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent.  If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.  If the FDA requires in the future that any of our LDT products be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.Certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments (CLIA) of 1988.  These products are commonly called “laboratory developed tests,” or LDTs.  For a number of years, the FDA has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion to not regulate LDTs as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory.  However, the FDA has been reconsidering its enforcement discretion policy and has commented that regulation of LDTs may be warranted because of the growth in the volume and complexity of testing services utilizing LDTs.  In October 2014, the FDA published two draft guidance documents suggesting an approach for registration and listing of laboratories and assays along with a framework for regulation of LDTs by the FDA based on risk to patients rather than whether the LDTs were made by a conventional manufacturer or a single laboratory.  The draft framework guidance includes pre-market review for higher-risk LDTs, including many used to guide treatment decisions, as well as companion diagnostics that have entered the market as LDTs.  We cannot predict the nature or extent of the FDA's final guidance or regulation of LDTs, in general, or with respect to our LDTs, in particular.  If the FDA requires in the future that LDT products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.  If product or service liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities.Our products and services are used for sensitive applications, and we face an inherent risk of exposure to product or service liability claims if our products or services are alleged to have caused harm, resulted in false negatives or false positives, or do not perform in accordance with specifications.  We cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product or service liability lawsuit brought against us.  Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product or service liability claims may result in:  •decreased demand for our products;   17Table of Contents•injury to our reputation;  •increased product liability insurance costs;  •costs of related litigation; and  •substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs.  Although we carry product and service liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product or service liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  As we develop, market, or sell diagnostic tests, we may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in the healthcare market.Physicians and patients may not order diagnostic tests that we develop, market, or sell, such as our verifi prenatal test, unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and governmental payors outside of the United States, pay a substantial portion of the test price.  Third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information.  In addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices.  Reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are:  •not experimental  or investigational,  •medically necessary,  •appropriate for the specific patient,  •cost-effective,  •supported by peer-reviewed publications, and  •included in clinical practice guidelines.  Since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products.  As a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained.  This process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations.  As a result, third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of diagnostic products that we develop, market, or sell.  This could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations.  Even if our tests are being reimbursed, third party payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with our customers at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients, or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues.  In addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization, and delivery of healthcare services.  These measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry.  Reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future.  Reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our results of operations.  Doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business.Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources.  If we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.  We have sales offices located internationally throughout Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, and Brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in Singapore.  Shipments to customers outside the United States comprised 49%, 50%, and 51% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. 18Table of ContentsDuring 2014, a significant portion of our sales were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in U.S. dollars.  Changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations.  Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market.  Our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the U.S. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete.  Our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to their local currency.  Foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the United States and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations.  Recent global financial conditions have led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  In addition to the foregoing risks, international operations entail the following risks:  •longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;  •longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders;  •challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations;  •tariffs and other trade barriers;  •unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products;  •difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and  •significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws.  We are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions.We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes.  Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the Company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties.  If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  An inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing from $73.5 million for the year ended January 1, 2006 to $1.86 billion for the year ended December 28, 2014, and with the number of employees increasing from 375 to more than 3,700 during the same period.  We expect to continue to experience substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans.  The continued global expansion of our business and addition of new personnel may place a strain on our management and operational systems.  Our ability to effectively manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees on a global basis.  If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology.  Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our management to continue to implement and improve our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.   19Table of ContentsOur operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability.Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers’ funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns.  Given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue.  While we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis.  This is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final weeks of the quarter.  In light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter.  A large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel.  In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products.  Accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend in part on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability.  Any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue.  In addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability.  Due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance.  If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline.  From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue.  The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales.  As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.  Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments.  Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.  Ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services.Our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, other food sources, and other living organisms.  The information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure.  Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure.  Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible.  These and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.   20Table of ContentsOur strategic investments may result in losses.We periodically make strategic investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business.  The market values of these strategic investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control.  Other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses related to our investment.  This could result in future charges to our earnings.  It is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments.  Conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses.As of December 28, 2014, we had $320.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2016, $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2019, and $517.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2021 outstanding.  The notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock.  If the trading price of our common stock remains significantly above the conversion price of $83.55 with respect to convertible notes due 2016, we believe that some noteholders will elect to convert the applicable notes.  Upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value.  The fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate.  The net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 4.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2016, 2.9% with respect to convertible notes due 2019, and 3.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2021.  If our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted.  Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock.Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us.  Our Certificate of Incorporation has provisions that give our Board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval.  The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.  The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock.  In addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control.  In addition, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), including Section 203 of the DGCL, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Illumina.  Section 203 of the DGCL provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company.  The above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock.  ITEM 1B