Item 1A “Risk Factors” below, or in information
    disclosed in public conference calls, the date and time of which
    are released beforehand.





 


    Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this
    annual report. We undertake no obligation, and do not intend, to
    publicly update or revise forward-looking statements, to review
    or confirm analysts’ expectations, or to provide interim
    reports or updates on the progress of any current financial
    quarter, whether as a result of new information, future events,
    or otherwise. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking
    statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf
    are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary
    statements contained in this annual report. Given these
    uncertainties, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our
    forward-looking statements.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    on our website, www.illumina.com. The information on our
    website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Such
    reports are made available as soon as





    
    2



Table of Contents





    reasonably practicable after filing with, or furnishing to, the
    SEC. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
    other information regarding issuers that electronically file
    with the SEC. Copies of our annual report on
    Form 10-K
    will be made available, free of charge, upon written request.


 


    Illumina®,

    Array of
    Arraystm,

    BeadArraytm,

    BeadXpress®,

    CSPro®,

    DASL®,

    Genetic
    Energytm,

    GoldenGate®,

    GoldenGate
    Indexingtm,

    GenomeStudio®,

    illuminaDxtm,

    HiSeqtm,

    Infinium®,

    IntelliHyb®,

    iSelect®,

    Making Sense Out of
    Life®,

    Oligator®,

    Sentrix®,

    Solexa®,

    and
    VeraCode®

    are our trademarks. This report also contains brand names,
    trademarks, or service marks of companies other than Illumina,
    and these brand names, trademarks, and service marks are the
    property of their respective holders.


 


    Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this annual
    report on
    Form 10-K
    to “Illumina,” the “Company,”
    “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to
    Illumina, Inc. and its subsidiaries.




    
    3



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    Business





 



    Overview


 


    We are a leading developer, manufacturer, and marketer of
    integrated systems for the analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function. We were incorporated in California in April
    1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000. Our principal
    executive offices are located at 9885 Towne Centre Drive,
    San Diego, California 92121. Our telephone number is
    (858) 202-4500.


 


    Using our proprietary technologies, we provide a comprehensive
    line of products and services that currently serve the
    sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression markets, and we
    expect to enter the market for molecular diagnostics. Our
    customers include leading genomic research centers,
    pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, clinical
    research organizations, and biotechnology companies.


 


    We develop and commercialize sequencing technologies used to
    perform a range of analyses, including de novo sequencing, whole
    genome re-sequencing, gene expression analysis, and small RNA
    analysis. Our product and service offerings also include
    leading-edge solutions for single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)
    genotyping, copy number variation (CNV), DNA methylation
    studies, gene expression profiling, and low-multiplex analysis
    of DNA, RNA, and protein. We believe we are the only company
    with genome-scale technology for sequencing, genotyping, and
    gene expression — the three cornerstones of modern
    genetic analysis.


 


    Our tools provide researchers around the world with the
    performance, throughput, cost effectiveness, and flexibility
    necessary to determine and analyze the billions of bits of
    genetic information needed to extract valuable medical
    information from advances in genomics and proteomics. We believe
    this information will enable researchers to correlate genetic
    variation and biological function, which will enhance drug
    discovery and clinical research, allow diseases to be detected
    earlier, and permit better choices of drugs for individual
    patients.


 


    In 2007 we acquired Solexa, Inc. As a result of that
    transaction, we acquired the sequencing technology utilized in
    our HiSeq 2000 and Genome Analyzer instrument platforms. These
    products perform DNA sequencing based on a proprietary
    reversible terminator
    sequencing-by-synthesis
    (SBS) chemistry.


 


    During the first quarter of 2008, we reorganized our operating
    structure into two newly-created business segments, the Life
    Sciences Business Unit and the Diagnostics Business Unit. During
    2009, the Diagnostics Business Unit had limited business
    activity and, accordingly, operating results are reported on an
    aggregate basis as one operating segment. In the future, at each
    reporting period end, we will reassess our reportable operating
    segments, particularly as we enter the market for molecular
    diagnostics.


 



    Industry
    Background


 



    DNA,
    RNA, and Protein


 


    The genetic content that controls an organism’s living
    cells is encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA. The human
    body, for instance, is composed of billions of cells, each
    containing DNA, which encodes the basic instructions for
    cellular function. The complete set of an organism’s DNA is
    called its genome. The human genome is organized into 23 pairs
    of chromosomes that are further divided into over 30,000 smaller
    regions called genes. Each gene is comprised of a string of
    nucleotide bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine,
    cytosine, guanine, and thymine, respectively. Human DNA has
    approximately 3 billion nucleotide bases and their precise
    order is known as the DNA sequence. When a gene is
    “expressed,” a partial copy of its DNA
    sequence — called messenger RNA or mRNA — is
    used as a template to direct the synthesis of a protein.
    Proteins, in turn, direct all cellular function.




    
    4



Table of Contents






    Genetic
    Variation and Biological Function


 


    Every person inherits two copies of each gene — one
    from each parent. The two copies of each gene may be identical,
    or they may be different. These differences are referred to as
    genetic variation. Examples of the physical consequences of
    genetic variation include differences in eye and hair color.
    Genetic variation can also have important medical consequences.
    Genetic variation affects disease susceptibility, including
    predisposition to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and
    Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, genetic variation may
    cause people to respond differently to the same drug treatment.
    Some people may respond well, others may not respond at all, and
    still others may experience adverse side effects. A common form
    of genetic variation is a SNP. A SNP is a variation in a single
    position of a nucleotide base in a DNA sequence. It is estimated
    that the human genome contains over 30 million SNPs.


 


    While in some cases a single SNP will be responsible for
    medically important effects, it is now believed that
    combinations of SNPs may contribute to the development of most
    common diseases. Since there are millions of SNPs, it is
    important to investigate many representative, well-chosen SNPs
    simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable
    information.


 


    Another contributor to disease is the over- or under-expression
    of genes within an organism’s cells. A very complex network
    of genes interacts to maintain health in complex organisms. The
    challenge for scientists is to delineate the associated
    genes’ expression patterns and their relationship to
    disease. Historically, this problem was addressed by
    investigating effects on a
    gene-by-gene
    basis. This is time consuming, and difficulties exist when
    several pathways cannot be observed or “controlled” at
    the same time. With the advent of microarray technology,
    thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time.


 


    There are multiple methods of studying genetic variation and
    biological function, including sequencing, SNP genotyping, and
    gene expression profiling, each of which is uniquely addressed
    in our breadth of products and services. Our broad portfolio of
    current products and services supports a range of applications,
    from highest multiplexing (for whole-genome discovery and
    profiling) to mid-and low-multiplexing options (for
    high-throughput targeted screening). Furthermore, our products
    and services support both the upstream discovery process and the
    downstream test development process in order to understand
    genetic variation at the DNA, RNA, and protein levels.


 



    Sequencing


 


    DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of
    nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample, which can
    be further divided into de novo sequencing, re-sequencing, and
    tag sequencing. In de novo sequencing, the goal is to determine
    the sequence of a representative sample from a species never
    before sequenced. Understanding the similarities and differences
    in DNA sequence between many species can help our understanding
    of the function of the protein structures encoded in the DNA.


 


    In re-sequencing, the sequence of nucleotide bases is compared
    to a standard or reference sequence from a given species to
    identify changes that reflect genetic variation. Re-sequencing
    studies can be performed on a genome-wide basis, which is
    referred to as whole-genome re-sequencing, or on targeted areas
    of the genome (for example, regions identified by genome-wide
    association studies), which is known as targeted re-sequencing.
    This is an extremely comprehensive form of genetic analysis, in
    which every base is characterized for possible mutations. We
    believe that these underlying discoveries will likely feed the
    development of new array products for broader testing and
    biomarker validation.


 


    In tag sequencing, short sequences, often representative of a
    larger molecule or genomic location, are detected and counted.
    In these applications, the number of times that each tag is seen
    provides quantification of an underlying biological process. As
    an example, in digital gene expression, one or more tag
    sequences may be analyzed for each expressed gene, and the
    number of copies of these tags that are detected in an
    experiment is a measure of how actively that gene is being
    expressed in the tissue sample being analyzed. Similarly, a tag
    sequencing approach known as ChIP sequencing is used to
    determine the locations and extent of protein and DNA
    interactions throughout the genome.




    
    5



Table of Contents






    SNP
    Genotyping


 


    SNP genotyping is the process of determining which nucleotide
    base (A, C, G, or T) is present at a particular site in the
    genome within any organism. The most common use of SNP
    genotyping is for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to look
    for an association between DNA sequence variants and a specific
    phenotype of interest. This is commonly done by studying the DNA
    of individuals that are affected by a common disease or that
    exhibit a specific trait against the DNA of control individuals
    who do not have this disease or trait. The use of SNP genotyping
    to obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual
    SNP or a collection of SNPs requires the analysis of millions of
    SNP genotypes and the testing of large populations for each
    disease. For example, a single large study could involve
    genotyping more than 1,000,000 SNPs per sample in more than
    1,000 samples, thus requiring one billion assays. Using
    previously available technologies, this scale of SNP genotyping
    was both impractical and prohibitively expensive.


 


    Large-scale SNP genotyping can be used in a variety of ways,
    including studies designed to understand the genetic
    contributions to disease (disease association studies), genomics
    based drug development, clinical trial analysis (responders and
    non-responders, and adverse event profiles), disease
    predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. SNP genotyping
    can also be used outside of healthcare, for example in the
    development of plants and animals with commercially desirable
    characteristics. These markets will require billions of SNP
    genotyping assays annually.


 



    Gene
    Expression Profiling


 


    Gene expression profiling is the process of determining which
    genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is
    accomplished by measuring mRNA, the intermediary messenger
    between genes and proteins. Variation in gene expression can
    cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease or
    predisposition to disease. By comparing gene expression patterns
    between cells from different environments, such as normal tissue
    compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or absence of a
    drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a role in
    these processes can be identified. Studies of this type, often
    used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and
    preferably tens of thousands, of mRNAs in large numbers of
    samples. Once a smaller set of genes of interest has been
    identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are
    expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example,
    within a clinical trial.


 


    As gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases,
    gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important
    diagnostic tool. Diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is
    anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the
    sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more
    cost-effective technologies.


 



    Molecular
    Diagnostics


 


    Molecular diagnostics is the process of examining nucleic acids,
    including DNA and RNA, and protein biomarkers to detect or
    identify infectious diseases, genetic diseases and disorders,
    human cancers, and to help understand
    subject-to-subject,
    gene-based variation in the efficacy or safety of drug
    substances (pharmacogenics). As knowledge of the genome and its
    function continues to expand, new medical and diagnostic
    applications are being developed. Molecular diagnostic tests can
    be used as diagnostic tools as well as in genetic disease
    susceptibility testing. Molecular diagnostic tests can also be
    used to identify a disease, monitor its progression and response
    to treatment, or predict individual predisposition to a disease
    and individual response to treatment. By identifying small,
    individual genetic differences — or
    variants — that lie at the root of differing drug
    responses, molecular diagnostic tests can be used to select
    appropriate medication and dosage.


 



    Our
    Principal Markets


 


    From our inception, we have believed that the analysis of
    genetic variation and function will play an increasingly
    important role in molecular biology and that by empowering
    genetic analysis, our tools will further disease research, drug
    development, and the development of molecular tests. Our
    customers include leading genomic research centers, academic
    institutions, clinical research organizations, and
    pharmaceutical





    
    6



Table of Contents





    and biotechnology companies. In addition, fundamental
    developments in recent years have created significant new
    opportunities for us in the emerging market of molecular
    diagnostics.


 



    Life
    Sciences Research Market


 


    The life sciences research market consists of laboratories
    generally associated with universities, medical research
    centers, government institutions such as the United States
    National Institutes of Health, and other research institutions
    as well as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies.
    Researchers at these institutions are using our products and
    services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities, such as:
    next-generation sequencing,
    mid-to-high-complexity
    genotyping and gene expression (for whole-genome discovery and
    profiling), and low complexity genotyping and gene expression
    (for high-throughput targeted screening). Next-generation
    sequencing is the most rapidly growing of these three areas. It
    is fueled by private and public funding, new global initiatives
    to broadly characterize genetic variation, and the migration of
    legacy genetic applications to sequencing based technologies.


 



    Applied
    Markets


 


    We provide products and services to enable or improve activities
    in particular markets, which we refer to as applied markets. A
    current focus of our products for these markets is in the area
    of agricultural research, including microarrays that contain
    SNPs for custom and focused genotyping of seeds and crops (such
    as maize) and livestock (such as cattle, horses, pigs, and
    sheep). The applied markets may also include opportunities for
    our products and services in the fields of forensic analysis,
    veterinary diagnostics, cytogenics, retail pet genomics, and
    consumer genotyping and sequencing. In July 2009, we launched a
    service program to provide high-quality personal genome
    sequencing for consumers. In connection with our personal
    sequencing service, we collaborate with a number of partners,
    including 23andMe, Inc.; deCODE genetics ehf; Knome, Inc.;
    National Center for Genome Resources; Navigenics, Inc.; and
    Pathway Genomics, to encourage secondary data analysis of a
    personal genome, such as calculation of disease risk, ancestry,
    and information on traits of interest. Although we do not
    perform personal genotyping directly as a service, several
    companies use our technology and products to provide personal
    genotyping services.


 



    Molecular
    Diagnostics Market


 


    The primary growth drivers in the molecular diagnostics market
    are the continued discovery of genetic markers with proven
    clinical utility, the increasing adoption of genetic based
    diagnostic tests, and the expansion of reimbursement programs to
    include a greater number of approved diagnostic tests. We
    believe that molecular diagnostic tests will create a
    fundamental shift in both the practice of medicine and the
    economics of the pharmaceutical industry by creating an
    increased emphasis on preventative and predictive molecular
    medicine. Physicians will be able to use these tests for the
    early detection of disease and to treat patients on a
    personalized basis, allowing them to select the most effective
    therapy with the fewest side effects. We believe our BeadXpress
    instrument platform, using our VeraCode technology, is ideally
    suited to provide a cost-effective, high-throughput, mid- to
    low-multiplex solution to the molecular diagnostic market.
    During the third quarter of 2009, we submitted our BeadXpress
    instrument platform for review by the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA). Assuming FDA approval of this instrument
    platform, we plan to develop clinical diagnostic testing panels
    for use on the BeadXpress instrument platform, including
    possible panels for multi-drug resistant organisms, herpes, and
    respiratory viruses, and we expect to continue research into the
    potential development of cancer diagnostic panels, initially
    focusing on ovarian cancer and gastric cancer. In addition,
    during the fourth quarter of 2009 we made a pre-IDE
    (investigational device exemption) submission with the FDA for a
    cytogenetics test intended to be used as an aid in the postnatal
    diagnosis of chromosomal abnormalities known to be associated
    with developmental delay and mental retardation. The pre-IDE
    package included our iScan instrument platform together with
    associated microarrays, reagents, and software. Following
    completion of the IDE process, we intend to seek FDA clearance
    for the iScan instrument platform and related reagents.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    Our
    Principal Technologies


 



    Sequencing
    Technology


 


    Our DNA sequencing technology is based on the use of our
    proprietary SBS biochemistry. In SBS, single stranded DNA is
    extended from a priming site, one base at a time, using
    reversible terminator nucleotides. These are DNA bases that can
    be added to a growing second strand, but which initially cannot
    be further extended. This means that at each cycle of the
    chemistry, only one base can be added. Each base that is added
    includes a fluorescent label that is specific to the particular
    base (A, C, G, or T). Thus, following incorporation, the
    fluorescence can be imaged, its color determined, and the base
    itself can be inferred. Once this is done, an additional step
    removes both the fluorescence and the blocking group that had
    prevented further extension of the second strand. This allows
    another base to be added, and the cycle can then be repeated.
    Our technology is capable of generating over 100 billion
    bases of DNA sequence from a single experiment with a single
    sample preparation. The reversible terminator bases that we use
    are novel synthetic molecules that we manufacture. They are not
    well incorporated by naturally occurring polymerases, so we have
    also developed proprietary polymerase enzymes for this purpose.
    Both the nucleotides and enzymes are the subject of significant
    intellectual property owned by us.


 


    In our DNA sequencing systems, we apply the SBS biochemistry on
    microscopic islands of DNA, referred to as DNA clusters. Each
    cluster starts as a single DNA molecule fragment, typically a
    few hundred bases long, attached to the inside surface of a flow
    cell. We then use a proprietary amplification biochemistry to
    create copies of each starting molecule. As the copies are made,
    they are covalently linked to the surface, so they cannot
    diffuse away. After a number of cycles of amplification, each
    cluster might have approximately 1,000 copies of the original
    starting molecule, but still be only about a micron
    (one-millionth of a meter) in diameter. By making so many
    copies, the fluorescent signal from each cluster is
    significantly increased. Because the clusters are so small,
    hundreds of millions of clusters can be independently formed
    inside a single flow cell. This large number of clusters can
    then be sequenced simultaneously by alternate cycles of SBS
    biochemistry and fluorescent imaging. Sequence reads are aligned
    against a reference genome and genetic differences are called
    using specially developed data analysis software.


 



    BeadArray
    Technology


 


    Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a
    substrate in a simple, proprietary manufacturing process to
    produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously,
    enabling large-scale analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function in a unique high-throughput, cost effective,
    and flexible manner. We achieve high-throughput with a high
    density of test sites per array, and we are able to format
    arrays in various configurations in the format of standard
    microscope slides. We seek to maximize cost effectiveness by
    reducing consumption of expensive reagents and valuable samples
    and through the low manufacturing costs associated with our
    technologies. Our ability to vary the size, shape, and format of
    the well patterns and to create specific bead pools, or sensors,
    for different applications provides the flexibility to address
    multiple markets and market segments. We believe that these
    features have enabled our BeadArray technology to become a
    leading platform for the high-growth market of SNP genotyping
    and have allowed us to be a key player in the gene expression
    market.


 


    Our proprietary BeadArray technology consists of 2-micron silica
    beads that self-assemble into microwells etched into an array
    substrate. We have deployed our BeadArray technology in two
    different array formats, the Array Matrix and the BeadChip. Our
    first bead based product was the Array Matrix, which
    incorporates fiber optic bundles comprised of approximately
    50,000 individual fibers, with 96 of these bundles placed into
    an aluminum plate to form an Array Matrix. In late 2009, we
    announced that during 2010 we would no longer sell Array Matrix
    products and would instead deploy our BeadArray technology only
    on BeadChips. BeadChips are microscope slide-size silicon wafers
    with varying numbers of sample sites per slide. BeadChips are
    chemically etched to create tens of millions of wells for each
    sample site.


 


    In a separate process, we create sensors by affixing hundreds of
    thousands of copies of a specific type of oligonucleotide
    molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in a
    batch. We make different batches of





    
    8



Table of Contents





    beads, with the beads in a given batch coated with one
    particular type of molecule. The particular molecules on a bead
    define that bead’s function as a sensor.


 


    To form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact
    with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the
    wells, one bead per well. The beads in the wells comprise our
    individual arrays. Because the beads assemble randomly into the
    wells, we perform a final procedure called “decoding”
    in order to determine which bead type occupies which well in the
    array. We employ several proprietary methods for decoding, which
    is a process that requires only a few steps to identify all the
    beads in the array. One beneficial by-product of the decoding
    process is a functional validation of each bead in the array.
    This quality control test characterizes the performance of each
    bead and can identify and eliminate use of any empty wells. We
    ensure that each bead type on the array is sufficiently
    represented by including multiple copies of each bead type.
    Multiple bead type copies improve the reliability and accuracy
    of the resulting data by allowing statistical processing of the
    results of identical beads.


 


    An experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as DNA,
    and introducing it to the array. The molecules in the sample
    bind to their matching molecules on the coated beads. The
    molecules in either the sample or on the bead are labeled with
    fluorescent dye either before or after the binding, which can be
    detected by shining a laser on the BeadChip. This allows the
    detection of the molecules resulting in a quantitative analysis
    of the sample.


 



    VeraCode
    Technology


 


    Our proprietary VeraCode technology platform leverages the power
    of digital holographic codes to provide a robust detection
    method for multiplex assays requiring high precision, accuracy,
    and speed. VeraCode enables low-cost multiplexing from 1 to
    384-plex in a single well. At the heart of the VeraCode
    technology are cylindrical glass beads measuring 240 microns in
    length by 28 microns in diameter. Each VeraCode bead type is
    inscribed with a unique digital holographic code to designate
    and track the specific analyte or genotype of interest
    throughout the multiplex reaction. When excited by a laser, each
    VeraCode bead emits a unique code image, allowing for quick and
    specific detection by Illumina’s BeadXpress Reader System.
    Depending on desired multiplex levels, assays are created by
    pooling microbeads with code diversities from one to several
    hundred. Unlike traditional microarrays, the VeraCode microbeads
    are used in solution, which takes advantage of solution-phase
    kinetics for more rapid hybridization times, dramatically
    reducing the time to achieve results. This technology enables us
    to serve a number of markets including research, agriculture,
    forensics, pharmaceuticals, and molecular diagnostics.


 



    Our
    Products


 


    Using our proprietary technologies, our products give our
    customers the ability to analyze the genome at any level of
    complexity from whole genome sequencing to low multiplex assays.
    This enables us to serve a number of markets, including
    research, agriculture, forensics, pharmaceuticals, and molecular
    diagnostics. The majority of our product sales consist of
    instruments and consumables based on these various technologies.
    For the fiscal years ended January 3, 2010,
    December 28, 2008, and December 30, 2007, instrument
    sales comprised 34%, 32%, and 33%, respectively, of total
    revenues, and consumable sales represented 59%, 58%, and 53%,
    respectively, of total revenues.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    Our major products, which we expect to be available for shipment
    during the first quarter of 2010, include the following:


 



    Instrumentation
    Platforms


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Product


 


 


    Product Description


 


 


    Applications


 


 


    Launch Date






    HiSeq 2000



 


 


    Instrument for high-throughput (up to 200 Gb per run and up to
    25 GB per day) sequencing using our SBS sequencing technology


 


 


    DNA sequencing, gene regulation analysis, sequencing-based
    transcriptome analysis, SNP discovery and structural variation
    analysis, cytogenetic analysis, DNA-protein interaction analysis
    (ChIP-seq), sequencing-based methylation analysis, and small RNA
    discovery and analysis


 


 


    Q1 2010





    Genome Analyzer IIx



 


 


    Instrument for medium to high-throughput (up to 95 Gb per run)
    sequencing using our SBS sequencing technology


 


 


    DNA sequencing, gene regulation analysis, sequencing-based
    transcriptome analysis, SNP discovery and structural variation
    analysis, cytogenetic analysis, DNA-protein interaction analysis
    (ChIP-seq), sequencing-based methylation analysis, and small RNA
    discovery and analysis


 


 


    Q2 2009





    Genome Analyzer IIe



 


 


    Instrument for low to medium throughput (up to 40 Gb per run)
    sequencing using our SBS sequencing technology


 


 


    DNA sequencing, gene regulation analysis, sequencing-based
    transcriptome analysis, SNP discovery and structural variation
    analysis, cytogenetic analysis, DNA-protein interaction analysis
    (ChIP-seq), sequencing-based methylation analysis, and small RNA
    discovery and analysis


 


 


    Q1 2010





    iScan System



 


 


    High-resolution imaging instrument to rapidly scan our BeadArray
    based assays


 


 


    SNP genotyping and CNV analysis, custom genotyping, cytogenetic
    analysis, focused genotyping, linkage analysis, whole-genome
    genotyping and copy number analysis, gene regulation and
    epigenetic analysis, array-based methylation analysis, gene
    expression analysis, array-based transcriptome analysis, FFPE
    sample analysis, and whole-genome gene expression analysis


 


 


    Q1 2008





    BeadXpress Reader



 


 


    Low- to mid-multiplex, high-throughput instrument for readout of
    assays (e.g., biomarker validation and development of molecular
    diagnostics) deployed on VeraCode bead technology


 


 


    Custom low- to mid-plex genotyping, custom low- to mid-plex
    methylation analysis, SNP screening, and protein screening


 


 


    Q1 2007




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 










    
    10



Table of Contents






    Consumables


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Product


 


 


    Product Description


 


 


    Applications


 


 


    Launch Date





    InfiniumHD Whole-Genome BeadChips


 


 


    Multi-sample DNA Analysis microarrays that interrogate up to 1.2
    million markers per sample, depending on the BeadChip. Product
    line includes the following BeadChips with human and
    agriculturally relevant genome panels: HumanOmniExpress,
    HumanOmni1-Quad, Human1M-Duo, and BovineHD


 


 


    Array based whole-genome genotyping


 


 


    Q1 2008 through Q1 2010




    iSelect Custom Genotyping BeadChips


 


 


    Customer designable SNP genotyping arrays for 3,000 to 200,000
    markers for use with any species


 


 


    Array based custom genotyping


 


 


    Q2 2006 through Q1 2010




    GoldenGate Assay Method


 


 


    High throughput assay and genotyping system


 


 


    High throughput, array based genotyping


 


 


    Q3 2009




    GoldenGate Universal-32 Sample BeadChip


 


 


    32 sample GoldenGate genotyping arrays


 


 


    Array based genotyping


 


 


    Q4 2008




    Paired-End Genomic DNA Sample Prep Kit


 


 


    Streamlined library preparation kit to generate 200 —
    500 kb insert paired-end reads


 


 


    Whole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression
    discovery and profiling, and epigenomics analysis


 


 


    Q2 2008





    VeraCode GoldenGate



 


 


    Flexible low plex GoldenGate genotyping arrays compatible with
    the BeadXpress System


 


 


    High throughput, array based genotyping


 


 


    FY 2007





    Standard Sequencing Kit



 


 


    Reagents used for SBS chemistry on our sequencing platforms


 


 


    Whole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression
    discovery and profiling, and epigenomics analysis


 


 


    Q1 2007





    Infinium Assay Kit



 


 


    Reagents used to perform Infinium assays on the iScan platform


 


 


    Array-based genotyping


 


 


    Q1 2008 through Q1 2010




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 



    Our
    Services


 



    Sequencing


 


    We have been offering sequencing services since 2007. Our
    services range from small sets of samples requiring as little as
    one run to finish, to large-scale projects, like whole-genome
    sequencing, necessitating multiple instruments running in
    parallel for extended periods of time. The breadth of
    applications offered





    
    11



Table of Contents





    includes novel custom products as well as all released products.
    These applications include but are not limited to human whole
    exome and custom targeted re-sequencing, de novo sequencing,
    small RNA discovery and profiling, gene expression using random
    primed RNA sampling technology, ChIP SEQ, and methylome
    interrogation.


 



    Genotyping


 


    We have been offering genotyping services since 2002. Our
    genotyping services offer all of our genotyping products,
    including standard and custom GoldenGate, standard Infinium and
    Infinium HD, as well as iSelect Infinium. Our projects range in
    size from a few hundred samples to over 10,000 samples. Our
    customer base includes academic institutions, and biotech and
    pharmaceutical companies.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    We have an extensive intellectual property portfolio, including,
    as of February 1, 2010, ownership of, or exclusive licenses
    to, 159 issued U.S. patents and 171 pending
    U.S. patent applications, including eight allowed
    applications that have not yet issued as patents. Our issued
    patents include those directed to various aspects of our arrays,
    assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, and
    chemical detection technologies, and have terms that expire
    between 2010 and 2027. We continue to file new patent
    applications to protect the full range of our technologies. We
    have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these
    patents and applications in foreign countries.


 


    We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright, and
    trademark protection, as well as continuing technological
    innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain
    our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our
    ability to obtain patent protection for our products and
    processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our
    patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without
    infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and to
    acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products.


 


    We are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license
    agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant
    us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing
    technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent
    kits, and scanning equipment. We have exclusive licenses from
    Tufts University to patents that are directed to our BeadArray
    technology. These patents were filed by Dr. David Walt, who
    is a member of our board of directors, the Chairman of our
    Scientific Advisory Board, and one of our founders. Our
    exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying
    patents, which will occur between 2010 and 2020. We have
    additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third
    parties for other components of our products. In most cases, the
    agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying
    patents, may be terminated at our request without further
    obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties while
    the agreement is in effect.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We have made substantial investments in research and development
    since our inception. We have assembled a team of skilled
    engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology,
    chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems,
    software, manufacturing, and other related areas required to
    complete the development of our products. Our research and
    development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required
    to optimize our sequencing, BeadArray, VeraCode, and oligo
    synthesis technologies and to support commercialization of the
    products and services derived from these technologies.


 


    Our research and development expenses for 2009, 2008, and 2007
    were $140.6 million, $100.0 million, and
    $73.9 million, respectively. We expect research and
    development expense to increase during 2010 as we continue to
    expand our research and product development efforts.


 



    Marketing
    and Distribution


 


    Our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the
    life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving
    sequencing, SNP genotyping, and gene expression profiling. These
    experiments may be





    
    12



Table of Contents





    involved in many areas of biologic research, including basic
    human disease research, pharmaceutical drug discovery and
    development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics, and agricultural
    research. Our potential customers include pharmaceutical,
    biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics, and consumer products
    companies, as well as academic or private research centers. The
    genetic analysis market is relatively new and emerging and its
    size and speed of development will ultimately be driven by,
    among other items:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the ability of the research community to extract medically
    valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge
    to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput
    research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation
    required to study genetic variation and biological
    function; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of government and private industry funding to
    perform the research required to extract medically relevant
    information from genomic analysis.





 


    We market and distribute our products directly to customers in
    North America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. In each of
    these areas, we have dedicated sales, service, and application
    support personnel responsible for expanding and managing their
    respective customer bases. In addition, in certain markets
    within Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, the Middle East, and
    South Africa we sell our products and provide services to
    customers through distributors that specialize in life science
    products. We expect to continue to increase our sales and
    distribution resources during 2010 and beyond as we launch a
    number of new products and expand the number of customers that
    can use our products.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We manufacture sequencing and array instrument platforms,
    reagent kits, scanning equipment, and oligos. Our manufacturing
    capacity for consumables and instruments has grown during 2009
    to support our increased customer demand. We are also focused on
    continuing to enhance the quality and manufacturing yield of our
    BeadChips and flow cells. To continue to increase throughput and
    improve the quality and manufacturing yield as we increase the
    complexity of our products, we are exploring ways to continue
    increasing the level of automation in the manufacturing process.
    We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal,
    state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the
    use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw
    materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and
    biochemical materials, and other supplies. We have multiple
    commercial sources for many of our components and supplies;
    however, there are some raw materials we obtain from single
    source suppliers. To mitigate potential risks arising from
    single source suppliers, we believe that we can redesign our
    products for alternative components or use alternative reagents.
    In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at
    minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as
    circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain.


 



    Competition


 


    Although we expect that our products and services will provide
    significant advantages over products and services currently
    available from other sources, we expect to encounter intense
    competition from other companies that offer products and
    services for the sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression,
    and molecular diagnostics markets. These include companies such
    as Affymetrix, Inc.; Agilent Technologies, Inc.; Beckman
    Coulter, Inc.; Complete Genomics, Inc.; General Electric
    Company; Helicos BioSciences Corporation; Life Technologies
    Corporation; Luminex Corporation; Pacific Biosciences, Inc.;
    Roche Diagnostics Corp.; Sequenom, Inc.; and Qiagen N.V. Some of
    these companies have or will have substantially greater
    financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger,
    more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service
    organizations than we do. In addition, they may have greater
    name recognition than we do in the markets we address and in
    some cases a larger installed base of systems. Each of these
    markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to
    emerge and the intensity of competition to increase. In





    
    13



Table of Contents





    order to effectively compete with these companies, we will need
    to demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost,
    and accuracy advantages over competing products.


 



    Segment
    and Geographic Information


 


    During the first quarter of 2008, we reorganized our operating
    structure into two newly created business segments, Life
    Sciences and Diagnostics. Our Life Sciences Business Unit
    includes all products and services that are primarily related to
    the research market, namely the product lines based on our
    sequencing, BeadArray, and VeraCode technologies, and our
    Diagnostics Business Unit focuses on the emerging opportunity in
    molecular diagnostics. During 2009, we had limited activity
    related to the Diagnostics Business Unit and operating results
    were reported on an aggregate basis to our chief operating
    decision maker, the chief executive officer. Accordingly, we
    operated in one reportable segment during 2009.


 


    We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside
    the United States, including customers in other areas of North
    America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. Shipments to
    customers outside the United States totaled $319.1 million,
    or 48% of our total revenue, during 2009, compared to
    $293.2 million, or 51%, and $159.1 million, or 43%, in
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Sales to customers outside of the
    United States were generally denominated in U.S. dollars.
    In 2008, we reorganized our international structure to establish
    more efficient channels among product development, product
    manufacturing, and sales. The reorganization increased our
    foreign subsidiaries’ anticipated dependence on the
    U.S. entity for management decisions, financial support,
    production assets, and inventory thereby making the foreign
    subsidiaries more of a direct and integral component of the
    U.S. entity’s operations. As a result, we reassessed
    the primary economic environment of our foreign subsidiaries and
    determined the subsidiaries are more U.S. dollar based,
    resulting in a U.S. dollar functional currency
    determination. We expect that sales to international customers
    will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue.
    See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further information concerning our foreign and
    domestic operations.


 



    Backlog


 


    Our backlog was $227.6 million and $113.0 million at
    January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008, respectively.
    Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as
    of the balance sheet date; however, we may allow customers to
    make product substitutions as we launch new products. The timing
    of shipments depends on several factors including, agreed upon
    shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and
    whether the product is catalog or custom. We reasonably expect
    an estimated 90% of the backlog as of January 3, 2010 to be
    shipped within the fiscal year ending January 2, 2011.
    Although we generally recognize revenue at the time of shipment
    and transfer of title to a customer, we may be required to defer
    the recognition of revenue even after shipment depending on the
    specific arrangement with a customer and the applicable
    accounting treatment. A material portion of our backlog at
    January 3, 2010 is associated with a large order we
    received from one customer for which we anticipate using
    operating lease accounting that will require us to recognize
    revenue over a period of three years with the majority of that
    revenue recognized in 2011 and 2012.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown
    significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products
    is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and
    highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as a result,
    in part, of U.S. academic customers spending unused budget
    allocations before the end of the U.S. government’s
    fiscal year.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    We are committed to the protection of our employees and the
    environment. Our operations require the use of hazardous
    materials that subject us to a variety of federal, state, and
    local environmental and safety laws and regulations. We believe
    we are in material compliance, in all material respects, with
    current applicable laws and regulations; however, we could be
    held liable for damages and fines should contamination





    
    14



Table of Contents





    of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous
    substances occur. In addition, we cannot predict how changes in
    these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and
    regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of
    compliance.


 



    Government
    Regulation


 


    Our products are not currently subject to FDA clearance or
    approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis
    of disease. However, as we expand our product line to encompass
    products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of
    disease, such as molecular diagnostic products, regulation by
    governmental authorities in the United States and other
    countries will be a significant factor in the development,
    testing, production, and marketing of such products. Products
    that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending
    on their intended use, will be regulated as medical devices by
    the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries and may
    require either receiving clearance following a pre-market
    notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or
    premarket approval (PMA), from the FDA prior to marketing.
    Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive
    and may involve considerable delay.


 


    The shorter 510(k) clearance process, which generally takes from
    three to six months after submission, but can take significantly
    longer, may be utilized if it is demonstrated that the new
    product is “substantially equivalent” to a similar
    product that has already been cleared by the FDA. The longer PMA
    process is much more costly, uncertain, and generally takes from
    nine months to two years after filing. Because we cannot assure
    you that any molecular diagnostic products that we develop will
    be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, or will
    ultimately be approved at all, the regulatory approval process
    for such products may be significantly delayed and may be
    significantly more expensive than anticipated. If we fail to
    obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining,
    regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we
    develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully
    commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all.


 


    Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the
    imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any
    time during the development or marketing of our products, which
    may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or
    comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.


 


    In addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process
    required to manufacture, market, and sell our existing and
    future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled
    as, “Research Use Only,” or RUO, is uncertain if such
    products are used or could be used, even without our consent,
    for the diagnosis of disease. If the FDA or other regulatory
    authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to
    regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial
    condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.


 



    Employees


 


    As of January 3, 2010, we had a total of
    1,781 employees. None of our employees are represented by a
    labor union. We consider our employee relations to be positive.
    Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to
    attract and retain employees. In addition, we employ a number of
    temporary and contract employees. We face competition in this
    regard from other companies, research and academic institutions,
    government entities, and other organizations.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    Our business is subject to various risks, including those
    described below. In addition to the other information included
    in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following issues could adversely affect our operating
    results or our stock price.


 



    We
    face intense competition, which could render our products
    obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or
    substantially limit the volume of products that we
    sell.


 


    We compete with life sciences companies that design,
    manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic
    variation and biological function and other applications using a
    wide-range of competing technologies. We anticipate that we will
    continue to face increased competition as existing companies
    develop new or





    
    15



Table of Contents





    improved products and as new companies enter the market with new
    technologies. One or more of our competitors may render our
    technology obsolete or uneconomical. Some of our competitors
    have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product
    lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in
    research and development than we do. Furthermore, life sciences
    and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers
    and strategic partners, could also develop competing products.
    We believe that customers in our markets display a significant
    amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular
    product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to
    potential customers who have purchased products from
    competitors. To the extent we are unable to be the first to
    develop or supply new products, our competitive position may
    suffer.


 


    The market for molecular diagnostics products is currently
    limited and highly competitive, with several large companies
    already having significant market share, intellectual property
    portfolios, and regulatory expertise. Established diagnostic
    companies also have an installed base of instruments in several
    markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which
    could deter acceptance of our products. In addition, some of
    these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies
    that provide them access to genetic information that may be
    incorporated into their diagnostic tests.


 



    Our
    success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of
    markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function.


 


    We design our products primarily for applications in the life
    sciences, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries. The
    usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the
    availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying
    or treating disease. We are focusing on markets for analysis of
    genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing,
    genotyping, and gene expression profiling. These markets are new
    and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we
    anticipate, or reach their full potential. Other methods of
    analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge
    and displace the methods we are developing. Also, researchers
    may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into
    medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic
    variation and biological function. For instance, demand for our
    microarray products may be adversely affected if researchers
    fail to find meaningful correlations between genetic variation,
    such as SNPs, and disease susceptibility through genome wide
    association studies. In addition, factors affecting research and
    development spending generally, such as changes in the
    regulatory environment affecting life sciences and
    pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs
    that provide funding to companies and research institutions,
    could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available
    or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner,
    demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we
    expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability.


 



    If the
    quality of our products does not meet our customers’
    expectations, then our sales and operating earnings, and
    ultimately our reputation, could be negatively
    impacted.


 


    In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately
    address quality issues associated with our products and
    services, including defects in our engineering, design, and
    manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party
    components included in our products. Because our instruments and
    reagents are highly complex, the occurrence of defects may
    increase as we continue to introduce new products and services.
    Although we have established internal procedures to minimize
    risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be
    no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate
    occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. In
    addition, identifying the root cause of quality issues,
    particularly those affecting reagents, may be difficult, which
    increases the time needed to address quality issues as they
    arise and increases the risk that similar problems could recur.
    Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and we may
    incur significant costs or lost revenue in connection with, for
    example, shipment holds, product recalls, and warranty or other
    service obligations. In addition, quality issues can impair our
    relationships with new or existing customers and adversely
    affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high
    quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our
    business as well as our financial results.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    If we
    do not successfully manage the development and launch of new
    products or services, including product transitions, our
    financial results could be adversely affected.


 


    We face risks associated with launching new products and
    pre-announcing products and services when the products or
    services have not been fully developed or tested. If our
    products and services are not able to deliver the performance or
    results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a
    timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer. If we
    encounter development challenges or discover errors in our
    products late in our development cycle it may cause us to delay
    our product launch date. In addition, we may experience
    difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions,
    purchasing decisions, or transition requirements or programs
    (such as trade-in programs) with respect to newly launched
    products (or products in development) relative to our existing
    products, which could adversely affect sales of our existing
    products. The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful
    product development or launch activities or lack of market
    acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our
    business, financial condition, or results of operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop
    and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may
    not be able to launch or support our products in a timely
    manner, or at all.


 


    We continue to increase our capacity to meet the anticipated
    demand for our products. Although we have significantly
    increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have
    plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to
    meet our business plan for 2010, there are uncertainties
    inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may
    not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely
    manner. For example, manufacturing and product quality issues
    may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing
    facilities and launch new products. Also, we may not manufacture
    the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we
    introduce new products. As a result, we may experience
    difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal
    demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to
    delay new product introductions, and demand for our products
    could decline. Additionally, in the past, we have experienced
    variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control
    issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of
    certain products. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing
    products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or
    previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that
    could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability
    to launch or sell these products (or to produce them
    economically), prevent us from achieving expected performance
    levels, or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by
    customers.


 


    Additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of
    locations. Our manufacturing facilities are located in
    San Diego and Hayward, California; Singapore; and Little
    Chesterford, United Kingdom. These areas are subject to natural
    disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods. If a
    natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities
    significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to
    fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our
    services or develop new products.


 


    Also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are
    controlled by our custom-designed Laboratory Information
    Management System (LIMS). Additionally, the decoding process in
    our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage
    infrastructure. If either our LIMS system or our networks or
    storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of
    time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our
    products on a timely basis and could prevent us from achieving
    our expected shipments in any given period.


 



    Our
    acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our
    business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of
    acquisitions of businesses or technologies.


 


    As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products,
    services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to
    make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses.
    Acquisitions involve





    
    17



Table of Contents





    numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial
    challenges, including the following, any of which could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results
    of operations:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies,
    products, and personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies
    and cost-savings;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or
    business relative to our expectations and the price we paid;




 



     
        • 

    
    negative near-term impacts on financial results after an
    acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges;




 



     
        • 

    
    the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic
    partners of acquired companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired
    companies or other third parties related to the transaction;




 



     
        • 

    
    the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of
    additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial
    portions of our cash;




 



     
        • 

    
    diversion of management’s attention and company resources
    from existing operations of the business;




 



     
        • 

    
    inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological
    advancements, or
    worse-than-expected
    performance of acquired companies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    assumption of, or exposure to, unknown contingent liabilities or
    liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately
    quantify.





 


    In addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses
    requires significant efforts and expense across all operational
    areas, including sales and marketing, research and development,
    manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies. We
    cannot assure you that any of the acquisitions we make will be
    successful or will be, or will remain, profitable. Our failure
    to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from
    achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a
    reasonable time frame, or at all.


 



    The
    timing and extent of funding provided by the American Recovery
    and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the Recovery Act) could adversely
    affect our business, financial condition, or results of
    operations.


 


    The Recovery Act was enacted in February 2009 to provide
    stimulus to the U.S. economy in the wake of the economic
    downturn. As part of the Recovery Act legislation, over
    $10 billion in funding was provided to the National
    Institute of Health through September 2010 to support the
    advancement of scientific research. A portion of the stimulus
    funding may support the analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function and have a significant positive impact on
    our business. In the short-term, however, our customers may
    delay or reduce their purchases of our products as they wait to
    learn whether, and to what extent, they will receive stimulus
    funding. If our customers are unable to obtain stimulus money
    they may reduce their research and development budgets resulting
    in a decrease in demand for our products. In addition, it is
    unclear what will happen to demand for our products after the
    stimulus funds from the Recovery Act have been allocated and
    spent. A decline in demand will reduce our revenues, which would
    adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results
    of operations.


 



    Unfavorable
    global economic conditions could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, or results of operations.


 


    Our results of operations could be adversely affected by general
    conditions in the global economy and in the global financial
    markets. The recent global financial crisis caused extreme
    volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. A
    severe or prolonged economic downturn, such as the recent global
    financial





    
    18



Table of Contents





    crisis, could result in a variety of risks to our business,
    including, in particular, reductions or delays in planned
    improvements to healthcare systems, research and development
    funding, and purchases of our products and services, or
    cost-containment efforts by governments and private
    organizations that could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, the
    liquidity of our investment portfolio could be impaired such as
    when more than $50 million of auction rate securities that
    we held for investment became illiquid in February 2008 because
    their scheduled auctions failed. Furthermore, as is the case for
    almost any other business, we face the following risks from a
    severe or prolonged economic downturn:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    severely limited access to financing over an extended period of
    time, which may limit our ability to fund our growth strategy,
    could result in a need to delay capital expenditures,
    acquisitions, or research and development projects;




 



     
        • 

    
    losses from our investment portfolio or to a counterparty’s
    inability to fulfill its payment obligations;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to refinance existing debt at competitive rates,
    reasonable terms, or sufficient amounts; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increased volatility or adverse movements in foreign currency
    exchange rates.





 


    In addition, certain of our customers may face challenges
    gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result
    in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us.
    If that were to occur, our allowance for doubtful accounts and
    our days sales outstanding could increase. Additionally, these
    economic conditions may cause our smaller suppliers to be unable
    to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized
    components, which would impair our ability to manufacture on
    schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. Suppliers may
    also extend lead times, limit supplies, or increase prices due
    to capacity constraints or other factors.


 



    Our
    continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and
    commercializing new products.


 


    Our target markets are characterized by rapid technological
    change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs,
    existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and
    frequent new product introductions. Accordingly, our continued
    growth depends on continuously developing and commercializing
    new products and services, including improving our existing
    products and services, in order to address evolving market
    requirements on a timely basis. If we fail to innovate or
    adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services
    will become dated and we could lose our competitive position in
    the markets that we serve as customers purchase new products
    offered by our competitors. We believe that successfully
    introducing new products and technologies in our target markets
    on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage
    because customers make an investment of time in selecting and
    learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch
    once that selection is made.


 


    To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative
    products, or such products are not accepted in the market or
    suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market
    share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible
    to regain. An inability, for technological or other reasons, to
    successfully develop and introduce new products could reduce our
    growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business.
    In the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience
    in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new
    products. We cannot assure you that we will keep pace with the
    rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products
    will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace,
    achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with
    competing technologies. Some of the factors affecting market
    acceptance of new products and services include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    availability, quality, and price relative to competing products
    and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    the functionality of new and existing products and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    the timing of introduction of the new product or service
    relative to competing products and services;




 



     
        • 

    
    scientists’ and customers’ opinions of the utility of
    the new product or service;




 



     
        • 

    
    citation of the new product or service in published research;







    
    19



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    regulatory trends and approvals; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general trends in life sciences research and applied markets.





 



    We
    depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for components
    and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these
    manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the
    quality of the components or materials supplied do not meet our
    requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship
    our products in a timely manner, or at all.


 


    The nature of our products requires customized components and
    materials that currently are available from a limited number of
    sources, and, in the case of some components and materials, from
    only a single source. If deliveries from these vendors are
    delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise
    unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to
    obtain these components or materials timely or in sufficient
    quantities or qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for
    our products. We may need to enter into contractual
    relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production
    of some of our products, or develop these capabilities
    internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do
    this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on
    commercially reasonable terms. Accordingly, we may not be able
    to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at
    commercially reasonable costs. In addition, the manufacture or
    shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the
    quality of the components or materials supplied by our vendors
    does not meet our requirements. Any delay or interruption to our
    manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result
    in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, or results of operations.


 



    An
    inability to manage our growth or the expansion of our
    operations could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, or results of operations.


 


    Our business has grown rapidly, with total revenues increasing
    from $73.5 million for the year ended January 1, 2006
    to $666.3 million for the year ended January 3, 2010
    and with the number of employees increasing from 375 to 1,781
    during the same period. We expect to continue to experience
    rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating
    plans. The rapid expansion of our business and addition of new
    personnel may place a strain on our management and operational
    systems. Our ability to effectively manage our operations and
    growth requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our
    operational, financial, and management controls, reporting
    systems, and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient
    numbers of talented employees on a global basis. If we are
    unable to scale up and implement improvements to our
    manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or
    timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing
    systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available
    the products required to successfully commercialize our
    technology. Our future operating results will depend on the
    ability of our management to continue to implement and improve
    our research, product development, manufacturing, sales and
    marketing, and customer support programs, enhance our
    operational and financial control systems, expand, train, and
    manage our employee base, integrate acquired businesses, and
    effectively address new issues related to our growth as they
    arise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage
    our recent or any future expansion or acquisition successfully,
    and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, or results of operations.


 



    If we
    lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain
    additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our
    goals.


 


    We are highly dependent on our management and scientific
    personnel, including Jay Flatley, our president and chief
    executive officer. The loss of their services could adversely
    impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. In
    addition, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel
    with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological
    information processing, sales, marketing, and technical support.
    We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel
    with other life science companies, universities, and research
    institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics.
    Competition for these individuals, particularly in the
    San Diego and San Francisco area, is intense, and the
    turnover rate can be high. Failure to attract and retain
    management and scientific personnel would prevent us from
    pursuing collaborations or developing our





    
    20



Table of Contents





    products or technologies. Additionally, integration of acquired
    companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key
    employees of the acquired business to leave. Further, we use
    stock options and restricted stock to provide incentives for our
    key personnel to remain with us and to align their interests
    with those of the Company by building long-term stockholder
    value. If our stock price decreases, the value of these equity
    awards decreases and therefore reduces a key employee’s
    incentive to stay.


 



    Doing
    business internationally creates operational and financial risks
    for our business.


 


    Conducting and launching operations on an international scale
    requires close coordination of activities across multiple
    jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management
    resources. If we fail to coordinate and manage these activities
    effectively, including the risks noted below, our business,
    financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely
    affected. We are focused on expanding our international
    operations in key markets. We have sales offices located
    internationally throughout Europe and the Asia-Pacific region,
    as well as manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom and
    Singapore. During 2009, the majority of our sales to
    international customers and purchases of raw materials from
    international suppliers were denominated in U.S. dollars.
    Shipments to customers outside the United States comprised 48%,
    51%, and 43% of our total revenue for the years ended
    January 3, 2010, December 28, 2008, and
    December 30, 2007, respectively. We intend to continue to
    expand our international presence by selling to customers
    located outside of the United States and we expect the total
    amount of
    non-U.S. sales
    to continue to grow.


 


    International sales entail a variety of risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts
    receivable outside of the United States;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange fluctuations;




 



     
        • 

    
    challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    tariffs and other trade barriers;




 



     
        • 

    
    unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of
    foreign countries into which we sell our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other
    trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery
    delays; and




 



     
        • 

    
    significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety
    of foreign laws.





 


    Changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the
    cost of certain items required in our operations. Changes in
    currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at
    which we are able sell products in the same market. Our revenues
    from international customers may be negatively impacted as
    increases in the U.S. dollar relative to our international
    customers local currency could make our products more expensive,
    impacting our ability to compete. Our costs of materials from
    international suppliers may increase if in order to continue
    doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of
    the U.S. dollar decreases relative to their local currency.
    Foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could
    result in actions by the United States and other countries to
    offset the effects of such fluctuations. The recent global
    financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in
    foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may
    continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, or results of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions
    and the possible loss of the tax deduction on our outstanding
    convertible notes.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments based on
    interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required
    in determining the provision for income taxes. Our effective
    income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors,
    including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in
    tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in
    the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in
    existing tax laws or tax rates,





    
    21



Table of Contents





    changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including
    share-based compensation), changes in our future levels of
    research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or
    the result of examinations by various tax authorities.


 


    In addition, we could lose some or all of the tax deduction for
    interest expense associated with our $400 million aggregate
    principal amount of convertible notes due in 2014 if these notes
    are not subject to the special Treasury Regulations governing
    contingent payment debt instruments, the notes are converted, or
    we invest in non-taxable investments.


 



    Any
    inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies
    could harm our competitive position.


 


    Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop
    proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and
    maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the
    United States and other countries. If we do not protect our
    intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use
    our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage.
    The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary
    rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and
    many companies have encountered significant challenges in
    establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of
    the United States. These challenges can be caused by the absence
    of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of
    intellectual property rights outside of the United States.


 


    The patent positions of companies developing tools for the life
    sciences, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including
    our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex
    legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our
    proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only
    to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by
    valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as
    trade secrets. In addition, patent applications in the United
    States may be maintained in secrecy until patents issue, and
    publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent
    literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several
    months. We intend to apply for patents covering our technologies
    and products as we deem appropriate. However, our patent
    applications may be challenged and may not result in issued
    patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they
    are issued. Questions as to inventorship or ownership may also
    arise. Any finding that our patents or applications are
    unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from
    practicing the related technology, and a finding that others
    have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and
    applications could require us to obtain certain rights to
    practice related technologies, which may not be available on
    favorable terms, if at all. Furthermore, as issued patents
    expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop
    competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue.


 


    In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we
    obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from
    practicing our technologies or from developing competing
    products. There is also the risk that others may independently
    develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our
    patented technologies. Also, our patents may fail to provide us
    with any competitive advantage. We may need to initiate lawsuits
    to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third
    party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may
    cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and
    reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. Furthermore,
    these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and
    technical personnel.


 


    We also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how
    protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and
    we have taken security measures to protect this information.
    These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for
    our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information.
    Among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and
    confidential information by entering into confidentiality
    agreements with employees, collaborators, and consultants. There
    can be no assurance that any confidentiality agreements that we
    have with our employees, collaborators, and consultants will
    provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and
    confidential information or will provide adequate remedies in
    the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information.
    Accordingly, there also can be no assurance that our trade
    secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently
    developed by competitors.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    Litigation,
    other proceedings, or third party claims of intellectual
    property infringement could require us to spend significant time
    and money and could prevent us from selling our products or
    services.


 


    Our success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the
    patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties
    have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing
    their proprietary technology without authorization. As we enter
    new markets, we expect that competitors will likely claim that
    our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part
    of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those
    markets. In addition, third parties may have obtained and may in
    the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of
    our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur
    substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and
    technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these
    claims. Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in
    defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse
    impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the
    actual import of the ruling itself. Furthermore, parties making
    claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other
    relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop
    further, commercialize, or sell products, and could result in
    the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a
    successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to
    pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties,
    or be prohibited from selling certain products. In addition, we
    may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if
    at all. We could therefore incur substantial costs related to
    royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which
    could negatively affect our gross margins. In addition, we could
    encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to
    develop alternative methods or products. Defense of any lawsuit
    or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms
    could prevent us from commercializing products, and the
    prohibition of sale of any of our products could adversely
    affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability.


 



    Our
    products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject
    to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and
    maintenance process for such products may be expensive,
    time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in
    outcome.


 


    Our products are not currently subject to FDA clearance or
    approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis
    of disease. However, as we expand our product line to encompass
    products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of
    disease, certain of our products are likely to become subject to
    regulation by the FDA, or comparable agencies of other
    countries, including requirements for regulatory approval of
    such products before they can be marketed. Such regulatory
    approval processes or clearances may be expensive,
    time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or
    comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition, or operating
    results. In addition, changes to the current regulatory
    framework, including the imposition of additional or new
    regulations, could arise at any time during the development or
    marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our
    ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory
    approval of our products, if required.


 


    Molecular diagnostic products, in particular, depending on their
    intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and
    comparable agencies of other countries and may require either
    receiving clearance from the FDA following a pre-market
    notification process or premarket approval from the FDA, in each
    case prior to marketing. Obtaining the requisite regulatory
    approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay.
    If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in
    obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic
    products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or
    successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or
    at all.


 


    In addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process
    required to manufacture, market, and sell our existing and
    future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled
    as, “Research Use Only,” or RUO, is uncertain if such
    products are used or could be used, even without our consent,
    for the diagnosis of disease. If the FDA or other regulatory
    authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to
    regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial
    condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.




    
    23



Table of Contents






    Our
    operating results may vary significantly from period to period,
    and we may not be able to sustain operating
    profitability.


 


    Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of
    sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new
    product launches and related promotions, the impact of seasonal
    spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our
    customers perform, the timing of our customers’ funding,
    changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences
    industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect
    customer ordering patterns. Given the difficulty in predicting
    the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services,
    we may experience
    quarter-to-quarter
    fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a
    sequential decline in quarterly revenue. While we anticipate
    future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of
    revenue recognition on a quarterly basis. This is because a
    substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically
    recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the
    pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not
    linear, with a concentration of orders in the final week of the
    quarter. In light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition
    procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping
    operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during
    the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter.


 


    A large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including
    expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel. In addition,
    we expect operating expenses to continue to increase
    significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our
    research and development and selling and marketing expenses will
    increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the
    development and launch of new products. Accordingly, our ability
    to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of
    growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses,
    and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able
    to maintain annual or quarterly profitability. Any significant
    delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable
    sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the
    other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future
    revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly
    revenue. In addition, non-cash stock-based compensation expense
    and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also
    likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability.
    Due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our
    revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we
    believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are
    not a good indication of our future performance. If our
    operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of
    stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could
    decline.


 


    From time to time, we receive large orders that have a
    significant effect on our operating results in the period in
    which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such
    orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue
    recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes
    in net sales. As a result, our operating results could vary
    materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such
    orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.


 



    Changes
    in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates,
    and judgments by management related to complex accounting
    matters could significantly affect our financial results or
    financial condition.


 


    Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting
    pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations
    with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our
    business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair
    value determinations, inventories, business combinations and
    intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex
    and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and
    judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or
    changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could
    significantly change our reported or expected financial
    performance or financial condition. In addition, the timing of
    large orders can have a significant effect on our business and
    operating results from quarter to quarter.


 



    Ethical,
    legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic
    information could reduce demand for our products or
    services.


 


    Genetic testing has raised ethical, legal, and social issues
    regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting
    information. Governmental authorities could, for social or other
    purposes, call for limits on or





    
    24



Table of Contents





    regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for
    genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for
    those that have no known cure. Similarly, such concerns may lead
    individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permissible.
    These and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about
    genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology
    for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our
    technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, or results of operations.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B