Item 1A of this
    Form 10-K.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We are committed to investing in world-class technology
    development, particularly in the area of the design and
    manufacture of integrated circuits. Research and development
    (R&D) expenditures in 2007 were $5.8 billion
    ($5.9 billion in fiscal year 2006 and $5.1 billion in
    fiscal year 2005).


 


    Our R&D activities are directed toward developing the
    technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next
    generation of products and platforms, which will in turn enable
    new form factors and new usage models for businesses and
    consumers. Our R&D activities range from design and
    development of products to developing and refining manufacturing
    processes, as well as researching future technologies and
    products.


 


    We are focusing our R&D efforts on advanced computing,
    communications, and wireless technologies as well as energy
    efficiency by developing new microarchitectures, advancing our
    silicon manufacturing process technology, delivering the next
    generation of microprocessors and chipsets, improving our
    platform initiatives, and developing software solutions and
    tools to support our technologies. Our R&D efforts enable
    new levels of performance and address areas such as scalability
    for multi-core architectures, system manageability and security,
    energy efficiency, digital content protection, ease of use, and
    new communications capabilities. In the area of wireless
    communications, our initiatives focus on delivering the
    technologies that will enable improved wireless capabilities,
    including expanding and proliferating WiMAX technologies and
    products.


 


    As part of our R&D efforts, we plan to introduce a new
    microarchitecture for our mobile, desktop, and Intel Xeon
    processors approximately every two years and ramp the next
    generation of silicon process technology in the intervening
    years. We refer to this as our “tick-tock” technology
    development cadence. Our leadership in silicon technology has
    enabled us to make “Moore’s Law” a reality.
    Moore’s Law predicted that transistor density on integrated
    circuits would double about every two years. Our leadership in
    silicon technology has also helped to expand on the advances
    anticipated by Moore’s Law by bringing new capabilities
    into silicon and producing new products and platforms optimized
    for a wider variety of applications. In 2007, we started
    manufacturing microprocessors on our new 45nm
    Hi-k metal
    gate silicon technology, and we expect to introduce a new
    microarchitecture on 45nm process technology in 2008. We are
    currently developing 32nm process technology, our
    next-generation process technology, and expect to begin
    manufacturing products using that technology in 2009.


 


    Our R&D model is based on a global organization that
    emphasizes a collaborative approach in identifying and
    developing new technologies, leading standards initiatives, and
    influencing regulatory policy to accelerate the adoption of new
    technologies. Our R&D initiatives are performed by various
    business groups within the company, and we centrally manage key
    cross-business group product initiatives to align and prioritize
    our R&D activities across these groups. In addition, we may
    augment our R&D initiatives by investing in companies or
    entering into agreements with companies that have similar
    R&D focus areas. For example, we have an agreement with
    Micron for joint development of NAND flash memory technologies.


 


    We also work with a worldwide network of academic, government,
    and industry researchers, scientists, and engineers in the
    computing and communications fields. Our network of technology
    professionals allows us, as well as others in our industry, to
    benefit from development initiatives in a variety of areas,
    eventually leading to innovative technologies for users. We
    believe that we are well positioned in the technology industry
    to help drive innovation, foster collaboration, and promote
    industry standards that will yield innovative and improved
    technologies for users.


 



    Employees


 


    In September 2006, we announced a restructuring plan that has
    resulted in headcount reductions, primarily through workforce
    reductions, attrition, and targeted business divestitures. See
    “Results of Operations” within “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation” in Part II, Item 7 of this
    Form 10-K
    for further details regarding our restructuring actions. As of
    December 29, 2007, we had approximately 86,300 employees
    worldwide, with more than 50% of these employees located in the
    U.S. Worldwide, we had approximately 94,100 employees as of
    December 30, 2006 and 99,900 as of December 31, 2005.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Sales and
    Marketing


 



    Customers


 


    We sell our products primarily to original equipment
    manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs).
    ODMs provide design and/or manufacturing services to branded and
    unbranded private-label resellers. In addition, we sell our
    products to other manufacturers, including makers of a wide
    range of industrial and communications equipment. Our customers
    also include PC and network communications products users who
    buy PC components and our other products through distributor,
    reseller, retail, and OEM channels throughout the world. In
    certain instances, we have entered into supply agreements to
    continue to manufacture and sell products of divested business
    lines to acquiring companies during certain transition periods.


 


    Our worldwide reseller sales channel consists of thousands of
    indirect customers who are systems builders that purchase Intel
    microprocessors and other products from our distributors. We
    have a “boxed processor program” that allows
    distributors to sell Intel microprocessors in small quantities
    to these systems-builder customers; boxed processors are also
    available in direct retail outlets.


 


    In 2007, Dell Inc. accounted for 18% of our net revenue (19% in
    2006), and Hewlett-Packard Company accounted for 17% of our net
    revenue (16% in 2006). No other customer accounted for more than
    10% of our net revenue. For information about revenue and
    operating profit by operating segment, and revenue from
    unaffiliated customers by geographic region/country, see
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation” in Part II,
    Item 7 and “Note 22: Operating Segment and
    Geographic Information” in Part II, Item 8 of
    this
    Form 10-K.


 



    Sales
    Arrangements


 


    Our products are sold or licensed through sales offices
    throughout the world. Sales of our products are typically made
    via purchase orders that contain standard terms and conditions
    covering matters such as pricing, payment terms, and warranties,
    as well as indemnities for issues specific to our products, such
    as patent and copyright indemnities. From time to time, we may
    enter into additional agreements with customers covering, for
    example, changes from our standard terms and conditions, new
    product development and marketing, private-label branding, and
    other matters. Most of our sales are made using electronic and
    web-based processes that allow the customer to review inventory
    availability and track the progress of specific goods ordered.
    Pricing on particular products may vary based on volumes ordered
    and other factors. We also offer discounts, rebates, and other
    incentives to customers to increase acceptance of our products
    and technology.


 


    Our products are typically shipped under terms that transfer
    title to the customer, even in arrangements for which the
    recognition of revenue on the sale is deferred. Our standard
    terms and conditions of sale typically provide that payment is
    due at a later date, generally 30 days after shipment,
    delivery, or the customer’s use of the product. Our credit
    department sets accounts receivable and shipping limits for
    individual customers to control credit risk to Intel arising
    from outstanding account balances. We assess credit risk through
    quantitative and qualitative analysis, and from this analysis,
    we establish credit limits and determine whether we will seek to
    use one or more credit support devices, such as obtaining some
    form of third-party guaranty or standby letter of credit, or
    obtaining credit insurance for all or a portion of the account
    balance if necessary. Credit losses may still be incurred due to
    bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of the customer to pay. See
    “Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts” in Part IV of this
    Form 10-K
    for information about our allowance for doubtful receivables.


 



    Distribution


 


    Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products,
    including those that compete with our products, and fill orders
    for many customers. Most of our sales to distributors are made
    under agreements allowing for price protection on unsold
    merchandise and a right of return on stipulated quantities of
    unsold merchandise. We also utilize third-party sales
    representatives who generally do not offer directly competitive
    products but may carry complementary items manufactured by
    others. Sales representatives do not maintain a product
    inventory; instead, their customers place orders directly with
    us or through distributors.


 



    Backlog


 


    We do not believe that backlog as of any particular date is
    meaningful, as our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard
    purchase orders for delivery of products. Only a small portion
    of our orders is non-cancelable, and the dollar amount
    associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Seasonal
    Trends


 


    Our microprocessor sales generally have followed a seasonal
    trend; however, there can be no assurance that this trend will
    continue. Historically, our sales of microprocessors have been
    higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of
    the year. Consumer purchases of PCs have been higher in the
    second half of the year, primarily due to back-to-school and
    holiday demand. In addition, purchases from businesses have
    tended to be higher in the second half of the year.


 



    Marketing


 


    Our corporate marketing focus is on advanced multi-core
    microprocessors. Multi-core microprocessors are at the center of
    our most advanced processor technologies, which include Intel
    Centrino processor technologies, Intel Core 2 processors with
    vPro technology, and Intel Core 2 processors with Viiv
    technology. The Intel Core 2 Quad, Intel Core 2 Extreme, Intel
    Core 2 Duo, Itanium, Intel Xeon, Pentium, and Celeron trademarks
    make up our processor brands. We promote brand awareness and
    generate demand through our own direct marketing as well as
    co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities include
    television, print and web-based advertising, as well as press
    relations, consumer and trade events, and industry and consumer
    communications. We market to consumer and business audiences and
    focus on building awareness and generating demand for increased
    performance, power efficiency, and new capabilities.


 


    Purchases by customers often allow them to participate in
    cooperative advertising and marketing programs such as the Intel
    Inside®
    program. This program broadens the reach of our brands beyond
    the scope of our own direct advertising. Through the Intel
    Inside program, certain customers are licensed to place Intel
    logos on computers containing our microprocessors and processor
    technologies, and to use our brands in marketing activities. The
    program includes a market development component that accrues
    funds based on purchases and partially reimburses the OEMs for
    marketing activities for products featuring Intel brands,
    subject to the OEMs meeting defined criteria. These marketing
    activities primarily include television, web-based marketing,
    and print, and in the beginning of 2008, we increased our focus
    on web-based marketing. We have also entered into joint
    marketing arrangements with certain customers.


 



    Competition


 


    Our products compete primarily based on performance, features,
    price, quality, brand recognition, and availability. Our ability
    to compete depends on our ability to provide innovative products
    and worldwide support for our customers at competitive prices,
    including providing improved energy-efficient performance,
    enhanced security, manageability, and integrated solutions. In
    addition to our various computing, networking, and
    communications products, we offer platforms that incorporate
    various components designed and configured to work together to
    provide an optimized user computing solution compared to
    ingredients that are used separately.


 


    The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid advances in
    technology and new product introductions. As unit volumes of a
    particular product grow, production experience is accumulated
    and costs typically decrease, further competition develops, and
    as a result, prices decline. The life cycle of our products is
    very short, sometimes less than a year. Our ability to compete
    depends on our ability to improve our products and processes
    faster than our competitors, anticipate changing customer
    requirements, and develop and launch new products and platforms,
    while reducing our average
    per-unit
    costs. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A
    of this
    Form 10-K.


 


    Many companies compete with us in the various computing,
    networking, and communications market segments, and are engaged
    in the same basic business activities, including R&D.
    Worldwide, these competitors range in size from large
    established multinational companies with multiple product lines
    to smaller companies and new entrants to the marketplace that
    compete in specialized market segments. Some of our competitors
    may have development agreements with other companies, and in
    some cases our competitors may also be our customers and/or
    suppliers. Product offerings may cross over into multiple
    product categories, offering us new opportunities but also
    resulting in more competition. It may be difficult for us to
    compete in market segments where our competitors have
    established products and brand recognition.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    We believe that our network of manufacturing facilities and
    assembly and test facilities gives us a competitive advantage.
    This network enables us to have more direct control over our
    processes, quality control, product cost, volume, timing of
    production, and other factors. These facilities require
    significant up-front capital spending, and many of our
    competitors do not own such facilities because they may not be
    able to afford to do so or because their business models involve
    the use of third-party facilities for manufacturing and assembly
    and test. These “fabless semiconductor companies”
    include Broadcom Corporation, NVIDIA Corporation, QUALCOMM
    Incorporated, and VIA Technologies, Inc. (VIA). Some of our
    competitors own portions of such facilities through investment
    or joint-venture arrangements with other companies. A group of
    foundries and assembly and test subcontractors offer their
    services to companies that do not own facilities or to companies
    needing additional capacity. These foundries and subcontractors
    may also offer intellectual property, design services, and other
    goods and services to our competitors. Competitors who outsource
    their manufacturing and assembly and test operations can
    significantly reduce their capital expenditures.


 


    We plan to continue to cultivate new businesses and work with
    the computing and communications industries through standards
    bodies, trade associations, OEMs, ODMs, and independent software
    and operating system vendors to help align the industry to offer
    products that take advantage of the latest market trends and
    usage models. We frequently participate in industry initiatives
    designed to discuss and agree upon technical specifications and
    other aspects of technologies that could be adopted as standards
    by standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also
    participate in the same initiatives and specification
    development. Our participation does not ensure that any
    standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will
    be consistent with our product planning.


 



    Microprocessors


 


    We continue to be largely dependent on the success of our
    microprocessor business. Our ability to compete depends on our
    ability to deliver new microprocessor products with improved
    overall performance and/or improved energy-efficient performance
    at competitive prices. Some of our microprocessor competitors,
    such as Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), market
    software-compatible products that compete with our processors.
    We also face competition from companies offering rival
    architecture designs, such as Cell Broadband Engine Architecture
    developed jointly by International Business Machines Corporation
    (IBM), Sony Corporation, and Toshiba Corporation; Power
    Architecture* offered by IBM; ARM architecture (Advanced RISC
    Machine) developed by ARM Limited; and Scalable Processor
    Architecture (SPARC*) offered by Sun Microsystems, Inc.


 


    The following is a list of our main microprocessor competitors
    by market segment:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Desktop: AMD and VIA







     
        • 

    
    Mobile: AMD and VIA







     
        • 

    
    Enterprise: AMD, IBM, and Sun Microsystems







     
        • 

    
    Embedded: AMD, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., and VIA





 



    Chipsets


 


    Our chipsets compete in the various market segments against
    different types of chipsets that support either our
    microprocessor products or rival microprocessor products.
    Competing chipsets are produced by companies such as AMD
    (including chipsets marketed under the ATI Technologies, Inc.
    brand), NVIDIA, Silicon Integrated Systems Corporation (SIS),
    and VIA.


 


    We also compete with companies offering graphics components and
    other special-purpose products used in the desktop, mobile, and
    enterprise market segments. One aspect of our business model is
    to incorporate improved performance and advanced properties into
    our microprocessors and chipsets, the demand for which may
    increasingly be affected by competition from companies, such as
    NVIDIA, whose business models are based on incorporating
    improved performance into dedicated chipsets and other
    components, such as graphics controllers.


 



    Flash
    Memory


 


    Our NAND flash memory products currently compete with NOR and
    NAND products primarily manufactured by Hynix Semiconductor
    Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SanDisk Corporation,
    Spansion Inc., STMicroelectronics, and Toshiba.


 



    Connectivity


 


    We offer products designed for wired and wireless connectivity;
    for the communications infrastructure, including network
    processors; and for networked storage. Our WiFi and WiMAX
    products currently compete with WiFi products manufactured by
    Atheros Communications, Inc. and Broadcom, and products
    manufactured by QUALCOMM.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Acquisitions
    and Strategic Investments


 


    During 2007, we completed one acquisition qualifying as a
    business combination. See “Note 12: Acquisitions”
    in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K.
    Also, we made two significant strategic investments that we
    discuss in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K.
    See “Note 19: Ventures” for information on our
    investment in IM Flash Singapore, LLP (IMFS), a venture formed
    with Micron to manufacture NAND flash memory products, and
    “Note 7: Investments” for information on our
    investment in VMware, Inc.


 


    During the first quarter of 2008, we expect to complete the
    divestiture of our NOR flash memory assets to Numonyx, and we
    expect to receive an ownership interest in the new company. See
    “Note 13: Divestitures” in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K.


 



    Intellectual
    Property and Licensing


 


    Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products
    and services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets,
    trademarks, and maskwork rights. We maintain a program to
    protect our investment in technology by attempting to ensure
    respect for our intellectual property rights. The extent of the
    legal protection given to different types of intellectual
    property rights varies under different countries’ legal
    systems. We intend to license our intellectual property rights
    where we can obtain adequate consideration. See
    “Competition” in Part I, Item 1 of this
    Form 10-K;
    “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of
    this
    Form 10-K;
    and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of
    this
    Form 10-K.


 


    We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and
    other countries. While our patents are an important element of
    our success, our business as a whole is not significantly
    dependent on any one patent. We and other companies in the
    computing, telecommunications, and related high-technology
    fields typically apply for and receive, in the aggregate, tens
    of thousands of overlapping patents annually in the U.S. and
    other countries.


 


    We believe that the duration of the applicable patents that we
    are granted is adequate relative to the expected lives of our
    products. Because of the fast pace of innovation and product
    development, our products are often obsolete before the patents
    related to them expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the
    patents related to them are even granted. As we expand our
    product offerings into new industries, we also seek to extend
    our patent development efforts to patent such product offerings.
    Established competitors in existing and new industries, as well
    as companies that purchase and enforce patents and other
    intellectual property, may already have patents covering similar
    products. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain
    patents covering our own products, or that we will be able to
    obtain licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all.


 


    The majority of the software that we distribute, including
    software embedded in our component- and system-level products,
    is entitled to copyright protection.


 


    To distinguish Intel products from our competitors’
    products, we have obtained certain trademarks and trade names
    for our products, and we maintain cooperative advertising
    programs with certain customers to promote our brands and to
    identify products containing genuine Intel components.


 


    We also protect certain details about our processes, products,
    and strategies as trade secrets, keeping confidential the
    information that we believe provides us with a competitive
    advantage. We have ongoing programs designed to maintain the
    confidentiality of such information.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Compliance
    with Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations


 


    We are committed to achieving high standards of environmental
    quality and product safety, and we strive to provide a safe and
    healthy workplace for our employees, contractors, and the
    communities in which we do business. We have environmental,
    health, and safety (EHS) policies and expectations that apply to
    our global operations. Each of our worldwide production
    facilities is in compliance with the International Organization
    for Standardization (ISO) 14001 environmental management system
    standard. Our internal EHS auditing program addresses not only
    compliance but also business risk and management systems. We
    focus on minimizing and properly managing the hazardous
    materials used in our facilities and products. We monitor
    regulatory and resource trends and set company-wide short- and
    long-term performance targets for key resources and emissions.
    These targets address several parameters, including energy and
    water use, climate change, waste recycling, and emissions. For
    example, we continue to take action to achieve our global
    greenhouse gas reduction goal by investing in energy
    conservation projects in our factories and working with
    suppliers of manufacturing tools to improve energy efficiency.
    We also focus on developing innovative solutions to improve the
    energy efficiency of our products and those of our customers. We
    take a holistic approach to power management, addressing the
    challenge at all levels, including the silicon, package,
    circuit,
    micro/macro
    architecture, platform, and software levels.


 


    The production of our products requires the use of hazardous
    materials that are subject to a broad array of EHS laws and
    regulations. We actively monitor the materials used in the
    production of our products. We have specific restrictions on the
    content of certain hazardous materials in our products, as well
    as those of our suppliers and outsourced manufacturers and
    subcontractors. We continue to make efforts to reduce hazardous
    materials in our products to position us to meet various
    environmental restrictions on product content throughout the
    world. For example, processors manufactured using our new 45nm
    Hi-k metal gate silicon technology are manufactured using a
    lead-free process. As we continue to advance process technology,
    the materials, technologies, and products themselves become
    increasingly complex. Our evaluations of materials for use in
    R&D and production take into account EHS considerations.
    Compliance with these complex laws and regulations, as well as
    internal voluntary programs, is integrated into our “Design
    for EHS” programs.


 


    We are committed to protecting the environment and human rights
    throughout our supply chain. We expect suppliers and
    subcontractors to understand and fully comply with all EHS and
    related laws and regulations and labor laws, including, at a
    minimum, those covering non-discrimination in the terms and
    conditions of employment, child labor, minimum wages, employee
    benefits, and work hours. In addition, we expect suppliers to
    abide by our policies, such as our Code of Conduct and the
    Electronic Industry Code of Conduct.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following sets forth certain information with regard to our
    executive officers as of February 19, 2008 (ages are as of
    December 29, 2007):


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Craig R. Barrett, age 68



 


    Arvind Sodhani, age 53





    • 2005 – present,



 


    Chairman of the Board


 


    • 2007 – present,


 


    Executive VP of Intel, President of Intel





    • 1998 – 2005,



 


    Chief Executive Officer


 


 


 


    Capital





    • Member of Intel Board of Directors since 1992



 


    • 2005 – 2007,


 


    Senior VP of Intel, President of Intel





    • Joined Intel 1974



 


 


 


    Capital




 


 


 


 


    • 1998 – 2005,


 


    VP, Treasurer





    Paul S. Otellini, age 57



 


    • Joined Intel 1981





    • 2005 – present,



 


    President, Chief Executive Officer


 


 


 


 





    • 2002 – 2005,



 


    President, Chief Operating Officer


 


    Robert J. Baker, age 52





    • Member of Intel Board of Directors since 2002



 


    • 2001 – present,


 


    Senior VP, GM of Technology and





    • Member of Google, Inc. Board of Directors



 


 


 


    Manufacturing Group





    • Joined Intel 1974



 


    • Joined Intel 1979




 


 


 





    Andy D. Bryant, age 57



 


    Patrick P. Gelsinger, age 46





    • 2007 – present,



 


    Executive VP, Finance and Enterprise


 


    • 2005 – present,


 


    Senior VP, GM of Digital Enterprise Group




 


 


    Services, Chief Administrative Officer


 


    • 2001 – 2005,


 


    Chief Technology Officer





    • 2001 – 2007,



 


    Executive VP, Chief Financial and


 


    • Joined Intel 1979




 


 


    Enterprise Services Officer


 


 


 


 





    • Member of Columbia Sportswear Company and McKesson



 


    William M. Holt, age 55




 


 


    Board of Directors


 


    • 2006 – present,


 


    Senior VP, GM of Technology and





    • Joined Intel 1981



 


 


 


    Manufacturing Group




 


 


 


 


    • 2005 – 2006,


 


    VP, Co-GM of Technology and





    Stacy J. Smith, age 45



 


 


 


    Manufacturing Group





    • 2007 – present,



 


    VP, Chief Financial Officer


 


    • 1999 – 2005,


 


    VP, Director of Logic Technology





    • 2006 – 2007,



 


    VP, Assistant Chief Financial Officer


 


 


 


    Development





    • 2004 – 2006,



 


    VP of Finance and Enterprise Services,


 


    • Joined Intel 1974




 


 


    Chief Information Officer


 


 


 


 





    • 2002 – 2004,



 


    VP of Sales and Marketing Group, General


 


    D. Bruce Sewell, age 49




 


 


    Manager (GM) of EMEA


 


    • 2005 – present,


 


    Senior VP, General Counsel





    • Joined Intel 1988



 


    • 2005


 


    VP, General Counsel




 


 


 


 


    • 2001 – 2004,


 


    VP of Legal and Government Affairs,





    Sean M. Maloney, age 51



 


 


 


    Deputy General Counsel





    • 2006 – present,



 


    Executive VP, GM of Sales and Marketing


 


    • Joined Intel 1995




 


 


    Group, Chief Sales and Marketing Officer


 


 


 


 





    • 2005 – 2006,



 


    Executive VP, GM of Mobility Group


 


    Thomas M. Kilroy, age 50





    • 2001 – 2005,



 


    Executive VP, GM of Intel


 


    • 2005 – present,


 


    VP, GM of Digital Enterprise Group




 


 


    Communications Group


 


    • 2003 – 2005,


 


    VP of Sales and Marketing Group,





    • Member of AutoDesk, Inc. Board of Directors



 


 


 


    Co-President of Intel Americas





    • Joined Intel 1982



 


    • 2003


 


    VP of Sales and Marketing Group, GM of




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Communication Sales Organization





    David Perlmutter, age 54



 


    • Joined Intel 1990





    • 2007 – present,



 


    Executive VP, GM of Mobility Group


 


 


 


 





    • 2005 – 2007,



 


    Senior VP, GM of Mobility Group


 


 


 


 





    • 2005



 


    VP, GM of Mobility Group


 


 


 


 





    • 2000 – 2005,



 


    VP, GM of Mobile Platforms Group


 


 


 


 





    • Joined Intel 1980



 


 


 


 









    
    14



Table of Contents



 



    ITEM 1A.  RISK
    FACTORS


 



    Fluctuations
    in demand for our products may harm our financial results and
    are difficult to forecast.





    If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and gross
    margin could be harmed. Important factors that could cause
    demand for our products to fluctuate include:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    changes in business and economic conditions, including a
    downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or the overall
    economy;







     
        • 

    
    changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market
    conditions, including changes in the credit market;







     
        • 

    
    competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from
    companies that have competing products, chip architectures,
    manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs;







     
        • 

    
    changes in customer product needs;







     
        • 

    
    changes in the level of customers’ components inventory;







     
        • 

    
    strategic actions taken by our competitors; and







     
        • 

    
    market acceptance of our products.





 


    If product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and
    test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to
    record an impairment on our long-lived assets including
    facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which
    would increase our expenses. In addition, factory-planning
    decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets,
    including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate
    depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we
    may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test
    capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in
    demand for our products, and changes in our customers’
    product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our
    competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain
    cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our
    gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments
    of our assets. In addition, if product demand decreases or we
    fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to
    write off inventory or record underutilization charges, which
    would have a negative impact on our gross margin.


 



    The
    semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a
    high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable
    and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business,
    results of operations, and financial condition.





    The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized
    by high costs, such as those related to facility construction
    and equipment, R&D, and employment and training of a highly
    skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term. At the same time, demand for our products is
    highly variable and there have been downturns, often in
    connection with maturing product cycles as well as downturns in
    general economic market conditions. These downturns have been
    characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing
    overcapacity, high inventory levels, and lower average selling
    prices. The combination of these factors may cause our revenue,
    gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly
    in both the short and long term.


 



    We
    operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to
    respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate
    new features into our products could harm our ability to
    compete.





    We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond
    quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our
    competitive position, and our products or technologies may
    become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we
    must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products
    and production processes, and improve our existing products and
    processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may
    not be able to develop and market these new products
    successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be
    well received by customers, and products developed and new
    technologies offered by others may affect demand for our
    products. These types of events could have a variety of negative
    effects on our competitive position and our financial results,
    such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our
    gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize
    impairments of our assets.


 



    Fluctuations
    in the mix of products sold may harm our financial
    results.





    Because of the wide price differences among mobile, desktop, and
    server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance
    capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling
    price of our products and have a substantial impact on our
    revenue and gross margin. Our financial results also depend in
    part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as
    chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. In
    addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher
    associated costs because of initial overall development and
    production ramp. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our
    products may also affect the extent to which we are able to
    recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a
    particular product, and as a result can harm our financial
    results.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Our
    global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results
    of operations and financial condition.





    We have sales offices, R&D, manufacturing, and assembly and
    test facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are
    subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our
    global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our
    ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or
    sell products in particular countries, which could, in turn,
    harm our results of operations and financial condition,
    including:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military
    unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity;







     
        • 

    
    health concerns;







     
        • 

    
    natural disasters;







     
        • 

    
    inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as
    large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities
    or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions;







     
        • 

    
    differing employment practices and labor issues;







     
        • 

    
    local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal
    standards and practices;







     
        • 

    
    regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between
    jurisdictions; and







     
        • 

    
    restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support
    local industries, nationalization of our operations, and
    restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings.





 


    In addition, although most of our products are priced and paid
    for in U.S. dollars, a significant amount of certain types of
    expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing
    expenses, are paid in local currencies. Our hedging programs
    reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency
    exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange
    rates could harm our business operating results and financial
    condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations
    and to U.S. and
    non-U.S.
    monetary policies may harm our operating results and financial
    condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue.
    Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our
    operating results and financial condition by increasing our
    overall tax rate.


 


    We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various
    types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our
    insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous
    jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain
    vary from time to time and from location to location, depending
    on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk
    retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and
    exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a
    self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be
    substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our
    results of operations.


 



    Failure
    to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or
    oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of
    operations.





    Production of integrated circuits is a complex process.
    Disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our
    processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and
    implementation of new processes; defects in materials;
    disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and
    disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities
    due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe
    working conditions—all of which could affect the timing of
    production ramps and yields. We may not be successful or
    efficient in developing or implementing new production
    processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in
    our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting
    in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could
    affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific
    product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of
    certain products could make it more difficult to implement our
    platform strategy. We may also experience increases in yields. A
    substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory
    levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges
    as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. The occurrence
    of any of these events could harm our business and results of
    operations.


 



    We may
    have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need
    for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or
    operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our
    ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our
    costs.





    We have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that
    we use in the production of our products and other aspects of
    our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several
    sources of supply for all of those materials. However, we may
    rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon
    suppliers in a single country, for these materials. The
    inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of
    production materials or other supplies could disrupt our
    production processes or could make it more difficult for us to
    implement our business strategy. In addition, production could
    be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in
    production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases. The
    unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or
    resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce
    production of products or may require us to incur additional
    costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials
    or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm
    our business and results of operations.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    Costs
    related to product defects and errata may harm our results of
    operations and business.





    Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata
    (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example,
    unanticipated problems in our manufacturing processes include,
    the costs of:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    writing off the value of inventory of defective products;







     
        • 

    
    disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed;







     
        • 

    
    recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers;







     
        • 

    
    providing product replacements for, or modifications to,
    defective products; and/or







     
        • 

    
    defending against litigation related to defective products.





 


    These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our
    expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation
    with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as
    a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for
    our products could be reduced. These factors could harm our
    financial results and the prospects for our business.


 



    We may
    be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual
    property rights, which could harm our business.





    From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our
    customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other
    intellectual property rights to technologies that are important
    to our business. We may be subject to intellectual property
    infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who
    have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of
    asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that
    our products or processes infringe the intellectual property
    rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such
    claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding
    to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the
    efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel
    away from our business. As a result of such intellectual
    property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise
    decide it is appropriate to:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pay third-party infringement claims;







     
        • 

    
    discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products
    subject to infringement claims;







     
        • 

    
    discontinue using the technology or processes subject to
    infringement claims;







     
        • 

    
    develop other technology not subject to infringement claims,
    which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible;
    and/or







     
        • 

    
    license technology from the third party claiming infringement,
    which license may not be available on commercially reasonable
    terms.





 


    The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in
    unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of
    our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and
    increase expenses. In addition, if we alter or discontinue our
    production of affected items, our revenue could be negatively
    impacted.


 



    We may
    be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our
    business.





    In addition to the litigation risks mentioned above, we may be
    subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving
    stockholder, consumer, antitrust, and other issues. As described
    in “Note 21: Contingencies” in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K,
    we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters.
    Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable
    rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include
    monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is
    sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or
    selling one or more products. Were an unfavorable ruling to
    occur, our business and results of operations could be
    materially harmed.


 



    We may
    not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property
    rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our
    business.





    Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software
    licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to
    general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the
    enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various
    countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often
    subject to claims that the intellectual property right is
    invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the
    party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our
    assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the
    other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property
    rights of its own against us, which may harm our business. If we
    are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against
    these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a
    particular product or family of products due to an injunction,
    or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our
    results of operations. In addition, governments may adopt
    regulations or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory
    licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may
    require that products meet specified standards that serve to
    favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual
    property rights under these circumstances may harm our
    competitive position and our business.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    Our
    licenses with other companies and our participation in industry
    initiatives may allow other companies, including our
    competitors, to use our patent rights.





    Companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the
    ability to license patents from each other in order to compete.
    Many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses
    with us, and under current case law, some of these licenses may
    permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others.
    If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors
    might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing
    competing products. In addition, our participation in industry
    initiatives may require us to license our patents to other
    companies that adopt certain industry standards or
    specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt
    standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result, our
    patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives
    might not be available for us to enforce against others who
    might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our
    costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may
    increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be
    impaired.


 



    Changes
    in our decisions with regard to our announced restructuring and
    efficiency efforts, and other factors, could affect our results
    of operations and financial condition.





    Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
    from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring
    include:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject
    to local labor law requirements, including consultation with
    appropriate works councils;







     
        • 

    
    changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement
    costs;







     
        • 

    
    future dispositions;







     
        • 

    
    new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap,
    development, and manufacturing;







     
        • 

    
    changes in employment levels and turnover rates;







     
        • 

    
    changes in product demand and the business environment; and







     
        • 

    
    changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets.





 



    In
    order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key
    employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of
    operations.





    In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate
    executives and other key employees, including those in
    managerial, technical, sales, marketing, and support positions.
    Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists,
    engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are
    critical to our business, and competition for experienced
    employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. To help
    attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use
    share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and
    non-vested share units (restricted stock units). If the value of
    such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the
    performance of the price of our common stock or if our
    share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a
    valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate
    employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of
    operations.


 



    Our
    results of operations could vary as a result of the methods,
    estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting
    policies.





    The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying
    our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results
    of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in
    Part II, Item 7 of this
    Form 10-K).
    Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature,
    subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions,
    and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our
    methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods,
    estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results
    of operations.


 



    Our
    failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of
    operations.





    The manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products
    require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a
    broad array of environmental, health, and safety laws and
    regulations. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable
    laws or regulations could result in:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities;







     
        • 

    
    suspension of production;







     
        • 

    
    alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes;
    and







     
        • 

    
    curtailment of our operations or sales.





 


    In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation,
    emission, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of
    hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or
    future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and
    regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement
    or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur
    other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many
    new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations
    may be subject to regulation under existing or future
    environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of
    one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and
    test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could
    harm our business and results of operations by increasing our
    expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly
    and test processes.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may harm our results of
    operations.





    A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates,
    including:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;







     
        • 

    
    the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities;







     
        • 

    
    changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;







     
        • 

    
    adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;







     
        • 

    
    increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including
    write-offs of acquired in-process R&D and impairments of
    goodwill in connection with acquisitions;







     
        • 

    
    changes in available tax credits;







     
        • 

    
    changes in share-based compensation;







     
        • 

    
    changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and
    changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and







     
        • 

    
    the repatriation of
    non-U.S.
    earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S.
    taxes.





 


    Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    reduce net income for future periods.


 



    We
    invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a
    return on our investments.





    We make investments in companies around the world to further our
    strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives.
    Such investments include investments in equity securities of
    public companies and non-marketable equity investments in
    private companies, which range from early-stage companies that
    are often still defining their strategic direction to more
    mature companies with established revenue streams and business
    models. The success of these companies is dependent on product
    development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and
    other key business factors. The private companies in which we
    invest may fail because they may not be able to secure
    additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future
    financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as
    initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of
    these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our
    investment in that company. If we determine that an
    other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an
    equity investment in a public or private company in which we
    have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value
    and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss.
    Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have
    been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from
    our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the
    investment. Our non-marketable equity investments in private
    companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of
    these investments on favorable terms or at all. The occurrence
    of any of these events could harm our results of operations.
    Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity
    method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another
    company’s income or loss, such income and loss may impact
    our earnings.


 



    Interest
    and other, net could vary from expectations, which could harm
    our results of operations.





    Factors that could cause interest and other, net in our
    consolidated statements of income to fluctuate include:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fixed-income and credit market volatility;







     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in interest rates;







     
        • 

    
    changes in our cash and investment balances;







     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;







     
        • 

    
    other-than-temporary impairments in the fair value of
    fixed-income instruments;







     
        • 

    
    changes in our hedge accounting treatment; and







     
        • 

    
    gains or losses from divestitures.





 



    Our
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt
    our ongoing business and harm our results of
    operations.





    In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct
    discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements
    regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and
    other transactions, such as joint ventures. Acquisitions and
    other transactions involve significant challenges and risks,
    including risks that:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities at terms
    acceptable to us;







     
        • 

    
    the transaction may not advance our business strategy;







     
        • 

    
    we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we
    make;







     
        • 

    
    we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired
    business; or







     
        • 

    
    we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees,
    business systems, and technology.





 


    When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter
    difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or
    alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely
    manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be
    renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions.
    These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our
    strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses
    with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may
    dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than
    we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions,
    divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete
    them due to:







    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals;







     
        • 

    
    intellectual property or other litigation;







     
        • 

    
    difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining
    financing for the transaction; or other factors.





 


    Further, acquisition, divestiture, and other transactions
    require substantial management resources and have the potential
    to divert our attention from our existing business. These
    factors could harm our business and results of operations.


 



    The
    proposed Numonyx transaction may be delayed or not
    consummated.





    In May 2007, we announced that we entered into an agreement to
    form a private, independent semiconductor company with
    STMicroelectronics N.V. and Francisco Partners L.P., later named
    Numonyx (see “Note 13: Divestitures” in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K).
    If the transaction is delayed or not consummated, we may record
    additional charges.


 



    ITEM 1B