ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS



Fluctuations in demand for our products may adversely
affect our financial results.



If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and gross
margin could be adversely affected. Important factors that could
cause demand for our products to fluctuate include:





    
    
    



     
    •
    
    changes in customer product needs;



     
    •
    
    changes in the level of customers’ inventory;



     
    •
    
    changes in business and economic conditions, including a
    downturn in the semiconductor industry;



     
    •
    
    competitive pressures from companies that have competing
    products, chip architectures and manufacturing technologies;



     
    •
    
    strategic actions taken by our competitors; and



     
    •
    
    market acceptance of our products.





If demand for our products is reduced, our manufacturing and/or
assembly and test capacity could be under-utilized, and we may
be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets
including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible
assets, which would increase our expenses. In addition, factory
planning decisions may cause us to record accelerated
depreciation. In the long term, if demand for our products
increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing and/or
assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand.
These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our
customers’ product needs, could have a variety of negative
effects on our competitive position and our financial results,
and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our
costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to
recognize and record impairments of our assets.



The semiconductor industry and our operations are
characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or
otherwise difficult to reduce in the short term, and by product
demand that is highly variable and is subject to significant
downturns that may adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition.



The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized
by high costs, such as those related to facility construction
and equipment, research and development, and employment and
training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or
difficult to reduce in the short term. At the same time, demand
for our products is highly variable and has experienced
downturns, often in connection with maturing product cycles and
downturns in general economic market conditions. These downturns
have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing
overcapacity, high inventory levels and decreased average
selling prices. The combination of these factors may cause our
revenue, gross margin, cash flow and profitability to vary
significantly both in the short term and over the long term.



We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our
failure to respond quickly to technological developments and
incorporate new features into our products could have an adverse
effect on our ability to compete.



We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience
rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond
quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our
competitive position, and our products or technologies may
become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we
must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products
and production processes, and improve our existing products and
processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may
not be able to successfully develop and market these new
products; the products we invest in and develop may not be well
received by customers; and products developed and new
technologies offered by others may affect the demand for our
products. These types of events could have a variety of negative
effects on our competitive position and our financial results,
such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our
gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize and
record impairments of our assets.


18



Table of Contents


Fluctuations in the mix of products sold may adversely
affect our financial results.



Because of the wide price differences among mobile, desktop and
server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance
capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling
price of our products and have a substantial impact on our
revenue. Our financial results also depend in part on the mix of
other products we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory and other
semiconductor products. In addition, more recently introduced
products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial
overall development costs and higher
start-up costs.
Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also
affect the extent to which we are able to recover our fixed
costs and investments that are associated with a particular
product, and as a result can negatively impact our financial
results.



Our global operations subject us to risks that may
negatively affect our results of operations and financial
condition.



We have sales offices and research and development,
manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many
countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated
with doing business globally. Our global operations may be
subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture,
assemble and test, design, develop or sell products in
particular countries, which could in turn have an adverse effect
on our results of operations and financial condition, including:





    
    
    



     
    •
    
    health concerns;



     
    •
    
    natural disasters;



     
    •
    
    inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as
    large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities
    or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions;



     
    •
    
    differing employment practices and labor issues;



     
    •
    
    local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal
    standards and practices;



     
    •
    
    regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between
    jurisdictions;



     
    •
    
    security concerns, including crime, political instability,
    terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military
    unrest; and



     
    •
    
    restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support
    local industries, nationalization of our operations and
    restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings.





In addition, although most of our products are priced and paid
for in U.S. dollars, a significant amount of certain types
of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing
expenses, are paid in local currencies. Fluctuations in the rate
of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of
other countries in which we conduct business, and changes in
currency controls with respect to such countries, could
negatively impact our business, operating results and financial
condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses in
such countries. In addition, changes in tariff and import
regulations and to U.S. and
non-U.S. monetary
policies may also negatively impact our revenue in those
affected countries. Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions
could negatively impact our overall tax rate.



Failure to meet our production targets, resulting in
undersupply or oversupply of products, may adversely impact our
business and results of operations.



Manufacturing and assembly and test of integrated circuits is a
complex process. Disruptions in this process can result from
difficulties in our development and implementation of new
processes, errors and interruptions in the processes, defects in
materials and disruptions in our supply of materials or
resources, all of which could affect the timing of production
ramps and yields. Furthermore, we may not be successful or
efficient in developing or implementing new production
processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in
our failure to increase production as desired, resulting in
higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could
impact our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific
product demand. Furthermore, the unavailability or reduced
availability of certain products could make it more difficult to
implement our platform strategy. We may also experience
increases in yields. A substantial increase in yields could
result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of
resulting excess capacity charges as we slow production to
reduce inventory levels. In addition, higher yields, as well as
other factors, can decrease overall unit costs and may cause us
to revalue our existing inventory on certain products to their
lower replacement cost, which would impact our gross margin in
the quarters in which this revaluation occurs. The occurrence of
any of these events could adversely impact our business and
results of operations.



We may have difficulties obtaining the resources or
products we need for manufacturing or assembling our products or
operating other aspects of our business, which could adversely
affect our ability to meet demand for our products and may
increase our costs.



We have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that
we use in production of our products and other aspects of our
business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources
of supply for all of these materials. However, we may rely on a
single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a
single country, for these materials. The inability of such
suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials
or other supplies could disrupt our production process or could
make it more difficult for us to implement our platform
strategy. In addition, production could be disrupted by the
unavailability of the resources used in production such as
water, silicon, electricity and gases. The unavailability or
reduced availability of the materials or resources we use in our
business may require us to reduce production of products or may
require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an
adequate supply of these materials or resources. The occurrence
of any of these events could adversely impact our business and
results of operations.


19



Table of Contents


Costs related to product defects and errata may have an
adverse impact on our results of operations and business.



Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata
(deviations from published specifications) include, for example,
the costs of:





    
    
    



     
    •
    
    writing down the value of inventory of defective products;



     
    •
    
    disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed;



     
    •
    
    recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers;



     
    •
    
    providing product replacements for or modifications to defective
    products; and



     
    •
    
    defending against litigation related to defective products.





These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our
expenses and adversely affect our gross margin. In addition, our
reputation with our customers or end users of our products could
be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and
the demand for our products could be reduced. These factors
could negatively impact our financial results and the prospects
for our business.



We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party
intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our
business.



From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our
customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark and other
intellectual property rights to technologies that are important
to our business. We may be subject to intellectual property
infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who
have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of
asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that
our products or processes infringe the intellectual property
rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such
claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding
to, defending and resolving such claims, and may divert the
efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel
away from our business. As a result of such intellectual
property infringement claims, we could be required to:





    
    
    



     
    •
    
    pay third-party infringement claims;



     
    •
    
    discontinue manufacturing, using or selling the infringing
    products;



     
    •
    
    discontinue using the infringing technology or processes;



     
    •
    
    develop non-infringing technology, which could be time-consuming
    and costly or may not be possible; or



     
    •
    
    license technology from the third party claiming infringement,
    which license may not be available on commercially reasonable
    terms or at all.





The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in
unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of
our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and
increase expenses. In addition, if we alter or discontinue our
production of affected items, our revenue could be negatively
impacted.



We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could
adversely affect our business.



In addition to the litigation risks mentioned above, we may be
subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving
stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues. As described
in “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of
this Form 10-K, we are currently engaged in a number of
litigation matters. Litigation is subject to inherent
uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An
unfavorable ruling could include money damages or, in cases for
which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting
Intel from manufacturing or selling one or more products. Were
an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of
a material adverse impact on business and results of operations
for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods.



We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual
property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and
adversely affect our business.



Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software
licenses and other intellectual property is subject to general
litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the
enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various
countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often
subject to claims that the intellectual property right is
invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the
party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our
assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the
other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property
rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our
business in the manner discussed above. If we are not ultimately
successful in defending ourselves against these claims in
litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or
family of products, due to an injunction, or we may have to pay
material amounts of damages, which could in turn negatively
affect our results of operations. In addition, governments may
adopt regulations or courts may render decisions requiring
compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or
governments may require that products meet specified standards
that serve to favor local companies. Our inability to enforce
our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may
negatively impact our competitive position and our business.


20



Table of Contents


Our licenses with other companies and our participation in
industry initiatives may allow other companies, including
competitors, to use our patent rights.



Companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the
ability to license patents from each other in order to compete.
Many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses
with us, and under current case law, some of these licenses may
permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others.
If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors
might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing
competing products. In addition, our participation in industry
initiatives may require us to license our patents to other
companies that adopt certain industry standards or
specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt
standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result, our
patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives
might not be available for us to enforce against others who
might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our
costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may
increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be
impaired.



In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate
key employees, and our failure to do so could have an adverse
effect on our results of operations.



In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate
executives and other key employees, including those in
managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions.
Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists,
engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are
critical to our business, and competition for experienced
employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. To
attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we rely
heavily on stock-based incentive awards such as employee stock
options and restricted stock. If the value of such stock awards
does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price
of our common stock and/or if our other stock-based compensation
otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability
to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely
impacted, which could negatively affect our results of
operations and/or require us to increase the amount we expend on
cash and other forms of compensation. In addition, our adoption
of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,”
during our first quarter of 2006 will result in significant
additional compensation expense compared to prior periods.



Our results of operations could vary as a result of the
methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our
accounting policies.



The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our
accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of
operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in
Part II, Item 7 of this
Form 10-K). Such
methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject
to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors
may arise over time that lead us to change our methods,
estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and
judgments could significantly affect our results of operations.
In particular, beginning in our first quarter of 2006, the
calculation of share-based compensation expense under
SFAS No. 123(R) will require us to use valuation
methodologies (which were not developed for use in valuing
employee stock options) and a number of assumptions, estimates
and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures,
expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend
rate with respect to our common stock and the exercise behavior
of our employees. Furthermore, there are no means, under
applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust our
expense if and when we learn of additional information that may
affect the estimates that we previously made, with the exception
of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards.
Factors may arise over time that lead us to change our estimates
and assumptions with respect to future share-based compensation
arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based
compensation expense over time. Changes in forecasted
share-based compensation expense could impact our gross margin
percentage; research and development expenses; marketing,
general and administrative expenses; and our tax rate.



Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws
and regulations worldwide could adversely impact our business
and results of operations.



The manufacture, assembly and testing of our products require
the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array
of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Our
failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or
regulations could result in:





    
    
    



     
    •
    
    regulatory penalties, fines and legal liabilities;



     
    •
    
    suspension of production;



     
    •
    
    alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test
    processes; or



     
    •
    
    curtailment of our operations or sales.





In addition, our failure to properly manage the use,
transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or
disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased
costs or future liabilities. Existing and future environmental
laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution
abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs
or incur other expenses associated with such laws and
regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use
in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or
future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our
use of certain materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test
processes or products. Any of these consequences could adversely
impact our business and results of operations by increasing our
expenses and/or requiring us to alter our manufacturing
processes.


21



Table of Contents


Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse
effect on our results of operations.



Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a
number of factors including:





    
    
    



     
    •
    
    the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;



     
    •
    
    the repatriation of
    non-U.S. earnings
    for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes;



     
    •
    
    adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;



     
    •
    
    increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including
    write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and
    impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;



     
    •
    
    changes in available tax credits;



     
    •
    
    changes in share-based compensation expense;



     
    •
    
    changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;



     
    •
    
    changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax
    laws; and



     
    •
    
    the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities.





Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
adversely impact net income for future periods.



In addition, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and
other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns.
The IRS has issued formal assessments related to amounts
reflected on certain of our tax returns as a tax benefit for our
export sales (see “Note 18: Contingencies” in
Part II, Item 8 of this
Form 10-K). Our
results of operations could be adversely impacted if these
assessments or any other assessments resulting from the
examination of our income tax returns by the IRS or other taxing
authorities are not resolved in our favor.



We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not
realize a return on our investments.



We make investments in companies around the world to further our
strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives.
Such investments include investments in equity securities of
public companies and investments in non-marketable equity
securities of private companies, which range from early-stage
companies that are often still defining their strategic
direction to more mature companies whose products or
technologies may directly support an Intel product or
initiative. The success of these companies (or lack thereof) is
dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational
efficiency and other key business success factors. The private
companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be
able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment
terms for future financings or take advantage of liquidity
events, such as initial public offerings, mergers and private
sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all
or part of our investment in that company. In addition, if we
determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value
exists for the equity securities of the public and private
companies in which we invest, we write down the investment to
its fair value and record the related write-down as an
investment loss. Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of
an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or
business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide
to dispose of the investment. Our investments in non-marketable
equity securities of private companies are not liquid, and we
may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable
terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could
negatively affect our net income and results of operations.


22



Table of Contents








ITEM 1B