Item 1A of this Form
    10-K.
    


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We are committed to investing in
    world-class technology development, particularly in the design
    and manufacture of integrated circuits. Research and development
    (R&D) expenditures in 2008 were $5.7 billion ($5.8 billion
    in fiscal year 2007 and $5.9 billion in fiscal year 2006).
    


 


    Our R&D activities are
    directed toward developing the technology innovations that we
    believe will deliver our next generation of products and
    platforms, which will in turn enable new form factors and new
    usage models for businesses and consumers. Our R&D
    activities range from design and development of products, to
    developing and refining manufacturing processes, to researching
    future technologies and products.
    


 


    We are focusing our R&D
    efforts on advanced computing, communications, and wireless
    technologies as well as energy efficiency by developing new
    microarchitectures, advancing our silicon manufacturing process
    technology, delivering the next generation of microprocessors
    and chipsets, improving our platform initiatives, and developing
    software solutions and tools to support our technologies. Our
    R&D efforts enable new levels of performance and address
    areas such as scalability for multi-core architectures, energy
    efficiency, system manageability and security, ease of use, and
    new communications capabilities. In addition, we are making
    significant R&D investments in growth areas such as SoC,
    MIDs, embedded applications, consumer electronics, and graphics.
    


 


    As part of our R&D efforts,
    we plan to introduce a new microarchitecture for our mobile,
    desktop, and Intel Xeon processors approximately every two years
    and ramp the next generation of silicon process technology in
    the intervening years. We refer to this as our
    “tick-tock” technology development cadence. Our
    leadership in silicon technology has enabled us to make
    “Moore’s Law” a reality. Moore’s Law
    predicted that transistor density on integrated circuits would
    double about every two years. Our leadership in silicon
    technology has also helped to expand on the advances anticipated
    by Moore’s Law by bringing new capabilities into silicon
    and producing new products and platforms optimized for a wider
    variety of applications. In 2008, we introduced a new
    microarchitecture using our 45nm process technology. We are
    currently developing 32nm process technology, our
    next-generation process technology, and expect to begin
    manufacturing products using that technology in the second half
    of 2009.
    


 


    Our R&D model is based on a
    global organization that emphasizes a collaborative approach to
    identifying and developing new technologies, leading standards
    initiatives, and influencing regulatory policy to accelerate the
    adoption of new technologies. Our R&D initiatives are
    performed by various business groups within the company, and we
    centrally manage key cross-business group product initiatives to
    align and prioritize our R&D activities across these
    groups. In addition, we may augment our R&D initiatives by
    investing in companies or entering into agreements with
    companies that have similar R&D focus areas. For example,
    we have an agreement with Micron for joint development of NAND
    flash memory technologies.
    



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Employees


 


    As of December 27, 2008, we
    had approximately 83,900 employees worldwide, with more
    than 50% of these employees located in the U.S. Worldwide,
    we had approximately 86,300 employees as of
    December 29, 2007 and 94,100 as of December 30, 2006.
    


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 



    Customers


 


    We sell our products primarily to
    original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design
    manufacturers (ODMs). ODMs provide design
    and/or
    manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private-label
    resellers. In addition, we sell our products to other
    manufacturers, including makers of a wide range of industrial
    and communications equipment. Our customers also include PC and
    network communications products users who buy PC components and
    our other products through distributor, reseller, retail, and
    OEM channels throughout the world. In certain instances, we have
    entered into supply agreements to continue to manufacture and
    sell products of divested business lines to acquiring companies
    during certain transition periods.
    


 


    Our worldwide reseller sales
    channel consists of thousands of indirect customers who are
    systems builders that purchase Intel microprocessors and other
    products from our distributors. We have a boxed processor
    program that allows distributors to sell Intel microprocessors
    in small quantities to these systems-builder customers; boxed
    processors are also available in direct retail outlets.
    


 


    In 2008, Hewlett-Packard Company
    accounted for 20% of our net revenue (17% in 2007) and Dell
    Inc. accounted for 18% of our net revenue (18% in 2007). No
    other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue.
    For information about revenue and operating income by operating
    segment, and revenue from unaffiliated customers by geographic
    region/country, see “Results of Operations” in
    Part II, Item 7 and “Note 25: Operating
    Segment and Geographic Information” in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K.
    


 



    Sales
    Arrangements


 


    Our products are sold or licensed
    through sales offices throughout the world. Sales of our
    products are typically made via purchase orders that contain
    standard terms and conditions covering matters such as pricing,
    payment terms, and warranties, as well as indemnities for issues
    specific to our products, such as patent and copyright
    indemnities. From time to time, we may enter into additional
    agreements with customers covering, for example, changes from
    our standard terms and conditions, new product development and
    marketing, private-label branding, and other matters. Most of
    our sales are made using electronic and web-based processes that
    allow the customer to review inventory availability and track
    the progress of specific goods ordered. Pricing on particular
    products may vary based on volumes ordered and other factors. We
    also offer discounts, rebates, and other incentives to customers
    to increase acceptance of our products and technology.
    


 


    Our products are typically shipped
    under terms that transfer title to the customer, even in
    arrangements for which the recognition of revenue and related
    costs of sales is deferred. Our standard terms and conditions of
    sale typically provide that payment is due at a later date,
    generally 30 days after shipment, delivery, or the
    customer’s use of the product. Our credit department sets
    accounts receivable and shipping limits for individual customers
    to control credit risk to Intel arising from outstanding account
    balances. We assess credit risk through quantitative and
    qualitative analysis, and from this analysis, we establish
    credit limits and determine whether we will seek to use one or
    more credit support devices, such as obtaining some form of
    third-party guaranty or standby letter of credit, or obtaining
    credit insurance for all or a portion of the account balance if
    necessary. Credit losses may still be incurred due to
    bankruptcy, fraud, or other failure of the customer to pay. For
    information about our allowance for doubtful receivables, see
    “Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts” in Part IV of this
    Form 10-K.
    


 


    Most of our sales to distributors
    are made under agreements allowing for price protection on
    unsold merchandise and a right of return on stipulated
    quantities of unsold merchandise. Under the price protection
    program, we give distributors credits for the difference between
    the original price paid and the current price that we offer. On
    most products, there is no contractual limit on the amount of
    price protection, nor is there a limit on the time horizon under
    which price protection is granted. The right of return granted
    generally consists of a stock rotation program in which
    distributors are able to exchange certain products based on the
    number of qualified purchases made by the distributor. Although
    we have the option to grant credit for, repair, or replace
    defective product, there is no contractual limit on the amount
    of credit granted to a distributor.
    



    
    9



Table of Contents





    Distribution


 


    Typically, distributors handle a
    wide variety of products, including those that compete with our
    products, and fill orders for many customers. We also utilize
    third-party sales representatives who generally do not offer
    directly competitive products but may carry complementary items
    manufactured by others. Sales representatives do not maintain a
    product inventory; instead, their customers place orders
    directly with us or through distributors.
    


 



    Backlog


 


    We do not believe that backlog as
    of any particular date is meaningful, as our sales are made
    primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of
    products. Only a small portion of our orders is non-cancelable,
    and the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion
    is not significant.
    


 



    Seasonal
    Trends


 


    Our microprocessor sales generally
    have followed a seasonal trend. Historically, our sales have
    been higher in the second half of the year than in the first
    half of the year. Consumer purchases of PCs have historically
    been higher in the second half of the year, primarily due to
    back-to-school and holiday demand. In addition, purchases from
    businesses have also historically tended to be higher in the
    second half of the year. This seasonal trend did not occur in
    2008, and there can be no assurance that it will resume in the
    future.
    


 



    Marketing


 


    Our corporate marketing objectives
    are to build a strong Intel corporate brand that connects with
    consumers, and have a limited set of product brands for our
    advanced microprocessors and related technologies. Our intention
    is to have a limited number of meaningful and valuable brands in
    our portfolio to aid in making informed choices and making
    technology purchase decisions easier for both businesses and
    consumers. The Intel Core i7, Intel Core 2 Extreme, Intel Core 2
    Quad, Intel Core 2 Duo, Intel Atom, Pentium, Celeron, Intel
    Xeon, and Itanium trademarks make up our processor brands.
    Microprocessors are at the center of our most advanced processor
    technologies, which include Intel Centrino processor technology
    and Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology.
    


 


    We promote brand awareness and
    generate demand through our own direct marketing as well as
    co-marketing programs. Our direct marketing activities include
    television, print and web-based advertising, as well as press
    relations, consumer and trade events, and industry and consumer
    communications. We market to consumer and business audiences,
    and focus on building awareness and generating demand for
    increased performance, power efficiency, and new capabilities.
    


 


    Purchases by customers often allow
    them to participate in cooperative advertising and marketing
    programs such as the Intel
    Inside®

    Program. This program broadens the reach of our brands beyond
    the scope of our own direct advertising. Through the Intel
    Inside Program, certain customers are licensed to place Intel
    logos on computers containing our microprocessors and processor
    technologies, and to use our brands in marketing activities. The
    program includes a market development component that accrues
    funds based on purchases and partially reimburses the OEMs for
    marketing activities for products featuring Intel brands,
    subject to the OEMs meeting defined criteria. These marketing
    activities primarily include television, web-based marketing,
    and print; and in the beginning of 2008, we increased our focus
    on web-based marketing. We have also entered into joint
    marketing arrangements with certain customers.
    


 



    Competition


 


    The semiconductor industry is
    dynamic, characterized by rapid advances in technology and
    frequent product introductions. As unit volumes of a product
    grow, production experience is accumulated and costs typically
    decrease, further competition develops, and prices decline. The
    life cycle of our products is very short, sometimes less than a
    year. These short product life cycles and other factors lead to
    frequent negotiations with our OEM customers, which typically
    are large, sophisticated buyers who are also operating in very
    competitive environments. Our ability to compete depends on our
    ability to navigate this environment, by improving our products
    and processes faster than our competitors, anticipating changing
    customer requirements, developing and launching new products and
    platforms, pricing our products competitively, and reducing
    average unit costs. See “Risk Factors” in Part I,
    Item 1A of this
    Form 10-K.
    



    
    10



Table of Contents




    Our products compete primarily
    based on performance, features, price, quality, reliability,
    brand recognition, and availability. We are focused on offering
    innovative products and worldwide support for our customers at
    competitive prices, including providing improved
    energy-efficient performance, enhanced security, manageability,
    and integrated solutions. We believe that our platform strategy
    provides us with a competitive advantage. We offer platforms
    that incorporate various components designed and configured to
    work together to provide an optimized user computing solution
    compared to components that are used separately.
    


 


    Our competitors range in size from
    large established multinational companies with multiple product
    lines to smaller companies and new entrants to the marketplace
    that compete in specialized market segments. Some of our
    competitors may have development agreements with other
    companies, and in some cases our competitors may also be our
    customers or suppliers. Product offerings may cross over into
    multiple product categories, providing us with new opportunities
    but also resulting in more competition. It may be difficult for
    us to compete in market segments in which our competitors have
    established products and brand recognition.
    


 


    We believe that our network of
    manufacturing facilities and assembly and test facilities gives
    us a competitive advantage. This network enables us to have more
    direct control over our processes, quality control, product
    cost, volume, timing of production, and other factors. These
    facilities require significant up-front capital spending, and
    many of our competitors do not own such facilities because they
    may not be able to afford to do so or because their business
    models involve the use of third-party facilities for
    manufacturing and assembly and test. These “fabless
    semiconductor companies” include Broadcom Corporation,
    NVIDIA Corporation, QUALCOMM Incorporated, and VIA Technologies,
    Inc. (VIA). Some of our competitors own portions of such
    facilities through investment or joint-venture arrangements with
    other companies. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) intends to
    sell an interest in its manufacturing operations.
    


 


    A group of foundries and assembly
    and test subcontractors offers their services to companies that
    do not own facilities or to companies needing additional
    capacity. These foundries and subcontractors may also offer
    intellectual property, design services, and other goods and
    services to our competitors. A disadvantage of our approach
    compared to fabless semiconductor companies is that it is more
    difficult for us to reduce our costs in the short term. Also,
    competitors who outsource their manufacturing and assembly and
    test operations can significantly reduce their capital
    expenditures.
    


 


    We plan to continue to cultivate
    new businesses and work with the computing and communications
    industries through standards bodies, trade associations, OEMs,
    ODMs, and independent software and operating system vendors to
    help align the industry to offer products that take advantage of
    the latest market trends and usage models. We frequently
    participate in industry initiatives designed to discuss and
    agree upon technical specifications and other aspects of
    technologies that could be adopted as standards by
    standards-setting organizations. Our competitors may also
    participate in the same initiatives and specification
    development. Our participation does not ensure that any
    standards or specifications adopted by these organizations will
    be consistent with our product planning.
    


 



    Microprocessors


 


    We continue to be largely
    dependent on the success of our microprocessor business. Our
    ability to compete depends on our ability to deliver new
    microprocessor products with improved overall performance and
    improved energy-efficient performance at competitive prices.
    Some of our microprocessor competitors, such as AMD, market
    software-compatible products that compete with our processors.
    We also face competition from companies offering rival
    architecture designs, such as Cell Broadband Engine Architecture
    developed jointly by International Business Machines Corporation
    (IBM), Sony Corporation, and Toshiba Corporation; Power
    Architecture* offered by IBM; ARM architecture developed by ARM
    Limited; and Scalable Processor Architecture (SPARC*) offered by
    Sun Microsystems, Inc. NVIDIA has developed a programming
    interface to attempt to expand the use of its graphics
    processors to accomplish general-purpose computing functions
    typically performed by a microprocessor in highly parallel
    applications.
    


 


    The following is a list of our
    main microprocessor competitors by market segment:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    Desktop: AMD and VIA
    







     
        • 
    

    
    Mobile: AMD and VIA
    







     
        • 
    

    
    Enterprise: AMD, IBM, and Sun
    Microsystems
    







     
        • 
    

    
    Embedded: AMD, Freescale
    Semiconductor, Inc., and VIA
    





 


    In addition, our Intel Atom
    processor family competes against processors offered by AMD and
    VIA, and from companies using rival architectures, such as ARM
    and MIPS.
    



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Chipsets


 


    Our chipsets compete in the
    various market segments against different types of chipsets that
    support either our microprocessor products or rival
    microprocessor products. Competing chipsets are produced by
    companies such as AMD (including chipsets marketed under the ATI
    Technologies, Inc. brand), NVIDIA, Silicon Integrated Systems
    Corporation, and VIA.
    


 


    We also compete with companies
    offering graphics components and other special-purpose products
    used in the desktop, mobile, and enterprise market segments. One
    aspect of our business model is to incorporate improved
    performance and advanced properties into our microprocessors and
    chipsets, for which demand may increasingly be affected by
    competition from companies, such as NVIDIA and AMD (including
    products marketed under the ATI Technologies, Inc. brand), whose
    business models are based on incorporating improved performance
    into dedicated chipsets and other components, such as graphics
    controllers.
    


 



    Flash
    Memory


 


    Our NAND flash memory products
    currently compete with NOR and NAND products primarily
    manufactured by Hynix Semiconductor Inc., Micron, Numonyx,
    Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., SanDisk Corporation, Spansion
    Inc., and Toshiba.
    


 



    Connectivity


 


    We offer products designed for
    wired and wireless connectivity; the communications
    infrastructure, including network processors; and networked
    storage. Our WiFi and WiMAX products currently compete with
    products manufactured by Atheros Communications, Inc., Broadcom,
    QUALCOMM, and other smaller companies.
    


 



    Competition
    Lawsuits and Government Investigations


 


    We are currently a party to a
    variety of lawsuits and government investigations involving our
    competitive practices. See “Note 24:
    Contingencies” in Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K.
    


 



    Acquisitions
    and Strategic Investments


 


    During 2008, we completed two
    acquisitions qualifying as business combinations. See
    “Note 11: Acquisitions” in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K.
    Also, we completed the divestiture of our NOR flash memory
    business in exchange for an ownership interest in Numonyx.
    


 


    Additionally, in 2008, we made a
    significant strategic investment in Clearwire Communications,
    LLC (Clearwire LLC). During the fourth quarter of 2008,
    Clearwire Corporation and Sprint Nextel Corporation combined
    their respective WiMAX businesses in conjunction with additional
    capital contributions from Intel and other investors to form a
    new company that retained the name Clearwire Corporation. The
    additional capital contributions included our cash investment of
    $1.0 billion. Our pre-existing investment in Clearwire
    Corporation (old Clearwire Corporation) was converted into
    shares of the new company (new Clearwire Corporation), and the
    additional capital contribution of $1.0 billion was
    invested in Clearwire LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the new
    Clearwire Corporation. For further discussion of our equity
    method investment in Clearwire LLC, see “Note 6:
    Equity Method and Cost Method Investments” in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K.
    



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Intellectual
    Property and Licensing


 


    Intellectual property rights that
    apply to our various products and services include patents,
    copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, and maskwork rights. We
    maintain a program to protect our investment in technology by
    attempting to ensure respect for our intellectual property
    rights. The extent of the legal protection given to different
    types of intellectual property rights varies under different
    countries’ legal systems. We intend to license our
    intellectual property rights where we can obtain adequate
    consideration. See “Competition” in Part I,
    Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I,
    Item 1A, and “Note 24: Contingencies” in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K.
    


 


    We have filed and obtained a
    number of patents in the U.S. and other countries. While our
    patents are an important element of our success, our business as
    a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. We and
    other companies in the computing, telecommunications, and
    related high-technology fields typically apply for and receive,
    in the aggregate, tens of thousands of overlapping patents
    annually in the U.S. and other countries. We believe that the
    duration of the applicable patents that we are granted is
    adequate relative to the expected lives of our products. Because
    of the fast pace of innovation and product development, our
    products are often obsolete before the patents related to them
    expire, and sometimes are obsolete before the patents related to
    them are even granted. As we expand our product offerings into
    new industries, we also seek to extend our patent development
    efforts to patent such product offerings. Established
    competitors in existing and new industries, as well as companies
    that purchase and enforce patents and other intellectual
    property, may already have patents covering similar products.
    There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain patents
    covering our own products, or that we will be able to obtain
    licenses from such companies on favorable terms or at all.
    


 


    The majority of the software that
    we distribute, including software embedded in our component- and
    system-level products, is entitled to copyright protection. To
    distinguish Intel products from our competitors’ products,
    we have obtained certain trademarks and trade names for our
    products, and we maintain cooperative advertising programs with
    certain customers to promote our brands and to identify products
    containing genuine Intel components. We also protect certain
    details about our processes, products, and strategies as trade
    secrets, keeping confidential the information that we believe
    provides us with a competitive advantage. We have ongoing
    programs designed to maintain the confidentiality of such
    information.
    


 



    Compliance
    with Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations


 


    Our compliance efforts focus on
    monitoring regulatory and resource trends and setting
    company-wide performance targets for key resources and
    emissions. These targets address several parameters, including
    product design; chemical, energy, and water use; climate change;
    waste recycling; and emissions.
    


 


    Intel focuses on reducing natural
    resource use, the solid and chemical waste by-products of our
    manufacturing processes, and the environmental impact of our
    products. We currently use a variety of materials in our
    manufacturing process that have the potential to adversely
    impact the environment and are subject to a variety of EHS laws
    and regulations. For example, lead and halogenated materials
    (such as certain flame retardants and plastics) have been used
    by the electronics industry for decades. Finding suitable
    replacements has been a technical challenge for the industry,
    and we have worked for years with our suppliers and others in
    the industry to develop lead-free and halogen-free solutions.
    


 


    We work with the U.S.
    Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), non-governmental
    organizations, OEMs, and retailers to help manage
    e-waste
    (which includes electronic products nearing the end of their
    useful lives) and promote recycling. The European Union requires
    producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to
    develop programs that allow consumers to return products for
    recycling. Many states in the U.S. have similar
    e-waste
    take-back laws. The inconsistency of many
    e-waste
    take-back laws and the lack of local
    e-waste
    management options in many areas pose a challenge for our
    compliance efforts. To mitigate these problems, we work with our
    distributors to provide recycling options for our products.
    



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Intel seeks to reduce our global
    greenhouse gas emissions by investing in energy conservation
    projects in our factories and working with suppliers to improve
    energy efficiency. We take a holistic approach to power
    management, addressing the challenge at the silicon, package,
    circuit, micro/macro architecture, platform, and software
    levels. We recognize that climate change may cause general
    economic risk. For additional information on the risks of
    climate change, see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of
    this
    Form 10-K.
    We routinely monitor energy costs to understand the long-range
    impacts that rising costs may have on our business. We see the
    potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change
    regulations. This could include items applied to utilities that
    are passed along to customers, such as carbon taxes or costs
    associated with emission cap and trade programs or renewable
    portfolio standards. In particular, regulations associated with
    the Western Climate Initiative could have an impact on our
    company, because a number of our large manufacturing facilities
    are located in the western United States. Similarly, our
    operations in Ireland are already subject to the European
    Union’s mandatory cap and trade scheme for global-warming
    emissions. All of our sites also may be impacted by utility
    programs directed by legislation, regulatory, or other pressures
    that are targeted to pass costs through to users.
    


 


    We maintain business recovery
    plans that are intended to ensure our ability to recover from
    natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our
    business. Many of our operations are located in semi-arid
    regions, such as Israel and the southwestern United States. Some
    climate change scenarios predict that such regions can become
    even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate
    change. We have had an aggressive water conservation program in
    place for many years. We believe that our water conservation and
    recovery programs will help reduce our risk if water
    availability becomes more constrained in the future. We further
    maintain long-range plans to identify potential future water
    conservation actions that we can take.
    


 


    We are committed to sustainability
    and take a leadership position in promoting voluntary
    environmental initiatives and working proactively with
    governments, environmental groups, and industry to promote
    global environmental sustainability. We believe that technology
    will be fundamental to finding solutions to the world’s
    environmental challenges, and we are joining forces with
    industry, business, and governments to find and promote ways
    that technology can be used as a tool to combat climate change.
    


 


    For several years, we have been
    evaluating “green” design standards and incorporating
    green building concepts and practices into the construction of
    our buildings. We are in the process of obtaining Leadership in
    Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for an
    office building under construction in Israel and a newly
    constructed fabrication building in Arizona. We have been
    purchasing wind power and other forms of renewable energy at
    some of our major sites for several years. At the beginning of
    2008, we announced plans to purchase renewable energy
    certificates under a multi-year contract. The purchase placed
    Intel at the top of the EPA’s Green Power Partnership for
    2008. The purchase was intended to help stimulate the market for
    green power, leading to additional generating capacity and,
    ultimately, lower costs.
    



    
    14



Table of Contents





 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following sets forth certain
    information with regard to our executive officers as of
    February 20, 2009 (ages are as of December 27, 2008):
    


 




     	
     	
     	





    Craig R. Barrett, age 69






    •   2005 – present,



 


    Chairman of the Board





    •   1998 – 2005,



 


    Chief Executive Officer





    •   Member of Intel Board of Directors since
    1992






    •   Joined Intel 1974





 





    Paul S. Otellini, age 58






    •   2005 – present,



 


    President, Chief Executive Officer





    •   2002 – 2005,



 


    President, Chief Operating Officer





    •   Member of Intel Board of Directors since
    2002






    •   Member of Google, Inc. Board of Directors






    •   Joined Intel 1974





 





    Andy D. Bryant, age 58






    •   2007 – present,



 


    Executive VP, Finance and Enterprise Services, Chief
    Administrative Officer





    •   2001 – 2007,



 


    Executive VP, Chief Financial and Enterprise Services Officer





    •   Member of Columbia Sportswear Company
    and 
       McKesson Corporation Board of Directors






    •   Joined Intel 1981





 





    Stacy J. Smith, age 46






    •   2007 – present,



 


    VP, Chief Financial Officer





    •   2006 – 2007,



 


    VP, Assistant Chief Financial Officer





    •   2004 – 2006,



 


    VP of Finance and Enterprise Services, Chief Information Officer





    •   2002 – 2004,



 


    VP of Sales and Marketing Group, General Manager (GM) of Europe,
    Middle East, and Africa





    •   Joined Intel 1988





 





    Sean M. Maloney, age 52






    •   2008 – present,



 


    Executive VP, Chief Sales and Marketing Officer





    •   2006 – 2008,



 


    Executive VP, GM of Sales and Marketing Group, Chief Sales and
    Marketing Officer





    •   2005 – 2006,



 


    Executive VP, GM of Mobility Group





    •   2001 – 2005,



 


    Executive VP, GM of Intel Communications Group





    •   Member of Autodesk, Inc. Board of
    Directors






    •   Joined Intel 1982













     	
     	
     	





    David Perlmutter, age 55






    •   2007 – present,



 


    Executive VP, GM of Mobility Group





    •   2005 – 2007,



 


    Senior VP, GM of Mobility Group





    •   2005



 


    VP, GM of Mobility Group





    •   2000 – 2005,



 


    VP, GM of Mobile Platforms Group





    •   Joined Intel 1980





 





    Arvind Sodhani, age 54






    •   2007 – present,



 


    Executive VP of Intel, President of Intel Capital





    •   2005 – 2007,



 


    Senior VP of Intel, President of Intel Capital





    •   1990 – 2005,



 


    VP, Treasurer





    •   Joined Intel 1981





 





    Robert J. Baker, age 53






    •   2001 – present,



 


    Senior VP, GM of Technology and Manufacturing Group





    •   Joined Intel 1979





 





    Patrick P. Gelsinger, age 47






    •   2005 – present,



 


    Senior VP, GM of Digital Enterprise Group





    •   2002 – 2005,



 


    Senior VP, Chief Technology Officer





    •   Joined Intel 1979





 





    William M. Holt, age 56






    •   2006 – present,



 


    Senior VP, GM of Technology and Manufacturing Group





    •   2005 – 2006,



 


    VP, Co-GM of Technology and Manufacturing Group





    •   1999 – 2005,



 


    VP, Director of Logic Technology Development





    •   Joined Intel 1974





 





    D. Bruce Sewell, age 50






    •   2005 – present,



 


    Senior VP, General Counsel





    •   2004 – 2005,



 


    VP, General Counsel





    •   2001 – 2004,



 


    VP of Legal and Government Affairs, Deputy General Counsel





    •   Joined Intel 1995





 





    Thomas M. Kilroy, age 51






    •   2005 – present,



 


    VP, GM of Digital Enterprise Group





    •   2003 – 2005,



 


    VP of Sales and Marketing Group,
    Co-President
    of Intel Americas





    •   Joined Intel 1990












    
    15



Table of Contents





 



    ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS


 



    Fluctuations
    in demand for our products may harm our financial results and
    are difficult to forecast.





    Current uncertainty in global
    economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy, as
    consumers and businesses have deferred and may continue to defer
    purchases in response to tighter credit and less discretionary
    spending, which negatively affect product demand and other
    related matters. If demand for our products fluctuates as a
    result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue
    and gross margin could be harmed. Important factors that could
    cause demand for our products to fluctuate include:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    changes in business and economic
    conditions, including a downturn in the semiconductor industry
    and/or the
    overall economy;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in consumer confidence
    caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the
    credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in the level of
    customers’ components inventory;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    competitive pressures, including
    pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products,
    chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing
    programs;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in customer product needs;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    strategic actions taken by our
    competitors; and
    







     
        • 
    

    
    market acceptance of our products.
    





 


    If product demand decreases, our
    manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be
    under-utilized, and we may be required to record an impairment
    on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as
    well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In
    addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast
    demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory
    or record under-utilization charges, which would have a negative
    impact on our gross margin. Factory-planning decisions may
    shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including
    facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate
    depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we
    may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test
    capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in
    demand for our products, and changes in our customers’
    product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our
    competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain
    cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our
    gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments
    of our assets.
    


 



    The
    recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business,
    results of operations, and financial condition.





    The recent financial crisis
    affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going
    concern threats to financial institutions have resulted in a
    tightening in the credit markets; a low level of liquidity in
    many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed
    income, and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on
    effects from the credit crisis on Intel’s business,
    including insolvency of key suppliers, resulting in product
    delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance
    purchases of our products
    and/or
    customer insolvencies; counterparty failures negatively
    impacting our treasury operations; increased expense or
    inability to obtain short-term financing of Intel’s
    operations from the issuance of commercial paper; and increased
    impairment charges due to declines in the fair values of
    marketable debt or equity investments. The current volatility in
    the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase
    the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our
    debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the
    fair values currently assigned to them.
    


 



    The
    semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a
    high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce
    in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable
    and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business,
    results of operations, and financial condition.





    The semiconductor industry and our
    operations are characterized by high costs, such as those
    related to facility construction and equipment, R&D, and
    employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are
    either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. At the
    same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there
    have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product
    cycles as well as downturns in general economic market
    conditions, such as the current economic environment. These
    downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand,
    manufacturing overcapacity and resulting excess capacity
    charges, high inventory levels, and lower average selling
    prices. The combination of these factors may cause our revenue,
    gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly
    in both the short and long term.
    



    
    16



Table of Contents





    We
    operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to
    respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate
    new features into our products could harm our ability to
    compete.





    We operate in intensely
    competitive industries that experience rapid technological
    developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer
    requirements, and frequent new product introductions and
    improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and
    successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive
    position, and our products or technologies may become
    uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must
    maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and
    production processes, and improve our existing products and
    processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may
    not be able to develop and market these new products
    successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be
    well received by customers, and products developed and new
    technologies offered by others may affect demand for our
    products. These types of events could have a variety of negative
    effects on our competitive position and our financial results,
    such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our
    gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize
    impairments on our assets.
    


 



    We may
    be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our
    business.





    We may be subject to legal claims
    or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer,
    competition, and other issues on a global basis. As described in
    “Note 24: Contingencies” in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K,
    we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters,
    particularly with respect to competition. Litigation is subject
    to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur.
    An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in
    cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction
    prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more
    products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a
    matter, our business and results of operations could be
    materially harmed.
    


 



    We
    invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a
    return on our investments.





    We make investments in companies
    around the world to further our strategic objectives and support
    our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity or
    debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of
    these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial
    investment. These companies range from early-stage companies
    that are often still defining their strategic direction to more
    mature companies with established revenue streams and business
    models. The success of these companies is dependent on product
    development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and
    other key business factors. The companies in which we invest may
    fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding,
    obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take
    advantage of liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers,
    and private sales. The current economic environment may increase
    the risk of failure for many of the companies in which we invest
    due to limited access to credit and reduced frequency of
    liquidity events. If any of these private companies fail, we
    could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we
    determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value
    exists for an equity investment in a public or private company
    in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its
    fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment
    loss. The majority of our non-marketable equity investment
    portfolio balance is concentrated in companies in the flash
    memory market segment and wireless connectivity market segment,
    and declines in these market segments or changes in
    management’s plans with respect to our investments in these
    market segments could result in significant impairment charges,
    impacting gains/losses on equity method investments and
    gains/losses on other equity investments.
    


 


    Furthermore, when the strategic
    objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the
    investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives,
    we may decide to dispose of the investment. Our non-marketable
    equity investments in private companies are not liquid, and we
    may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable
    terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could
    harm our results of operations. Additionally, for cases in which
    we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a
    proportionate share of another company’s income or loss,
    such income and loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses
    from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on
    gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities,
    gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment
    charges related to debt instruments as well as equity and other
    investments.
    


 



    Our
    results of operations could vary as a result of the methods,
    estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting
    policies.





    The methods, estimates, and
    judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a
    significant impact on our results of operations (see
    “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part II,
    Item 7 of this
    Form 10-K).
    Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature,
    subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions,
    and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our
    methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods,
    estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results
    of operations. The current volatility in the financial markets
    and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the
    actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity
    investments will differ significantly from the fair values
    currently assigned to them.
    



    
    17



Table of Contents





    Fluctuations
    in the mix of products sold may harm our financial
    results.





    Because of the wide price
    differences among and within mobile, desktop, and server
    microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities
    of microprocessors sold affect the average selling price of our
    products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross
    margin. Our financial results also depend in part on the mix of
    other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and
    other semiconductor products. In addition, more recently
    introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because
    of initial overall development and production ramp. Fluctuations
    in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent
    to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments
    associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm
    our financial results.
    


 



    Our
    global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results
    of operations and financial condition.





    We have sales offices, R&D,
    manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many
    countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated
    with doing business globally. Our global operations may be
    subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture,
    assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products in
    particular countries, which could, in turn, harm our results of
    operations and financial condition, including:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    security concerns, such as armed
    conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political
    instability, and terrorist activity;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    health concerns;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    natural disasters;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    inefficient and limited
    infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or
    interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications
    providers and supply chain interruptions;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    differing employment practices and
    labor issues;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    local business and cultural
    factors that differ from our normal standards and practices;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    regulatory requirements and
    prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and
    







     
        • 
    

    
    restrictions on our operations by
    governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization
    of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    earnings.
    





 


    In addition, although most of our
    products are sold in U.S. dollars, we incur a significant amount
    of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax,
    and marketing expenses, as well as certain investing and
    financing activities, in local currencies. Our hedging programs
    reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency
    exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange
    rates could harm our business operating results and financial
    condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations
    and in U.S. and
    non-U.S.
    monetary policies may harm our operating results and financial
    condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue.
    Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our
    operating results and financial condition by increasing our
    overall tax rate.
    


 


    We maintain a program of insurance
    coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other
    risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in
    numerous jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that
    we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location,
    depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect
    to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and
    exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a
    self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be
    substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our
    results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the
    recent financial crisis could pose solvency risks for our
    insurers, which could reduce our coverage if one or more of our
    insurance providers is unable to pay a claim.
    


 



    Failure
    to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or
    oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of
    operations.





    Production of integrated circuits
    is a complex process. Disruptions in this process can result
    from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in
    our development and implementation of new processes; defects in
    materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources;
    and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test
    facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues,
    or unsafe working conditions—all of which could affect the
    timing of production ramps and yields. We may not be successful
    or efficient in developing or implementing new production
    processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in
    our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting
    in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could
    affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific
    product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of
    certain products could make it more difficult to implement our
    platform strategy. We may also experience increases in yields. A
    substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory
    levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges
    as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. The occurrence
    of any of these events could harm our business and results of
    operations.
    



    
    18



Table of Contents





    We may
    have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need
    for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or
    operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our
    ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our
    costs.





    We have thousands of suppliers
    providing various materials that we use in the production of our
    products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where
    possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those
    materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number
    of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these
    materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate
    supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt
    our production processes or could make it more difficult for us
    to implement our business strategy. In addition, production
    could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used
    in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases.
    The unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or
    resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce
    production of products or may require us to incur additional
    costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials
    or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm
    our business and results of operations.
    


 



    Costs
    related to product defects and errata may harm our results of
    operations and business.





    Costs associated with unexpected
    product defects and errata (deviations from published
    specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in
    our manufacturing processes, include:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    writing off the value of inventory
    of defective products;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    disposing of defective products
    that cannot be fixed;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    recalling defective products that
    have been shipped to customers;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    providing product replacements
    for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or
    







     
        • 
    

    
    defending against litigation
    related to defective products.
    





 


    These costs could be substantial
    and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross
    margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users
    of our products could be damaged as a result of such product
    defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be
    reduced. These factors could harm our financial results and the
    prospects for our business.
    


 



    We may
    be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual
    property rights, which could harm our business.





    From time to time, third parties
    may assert against us or our customers alleged patent,
    copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to
    technologies that are important to our business. As described in
    “Note 24: Contingencies” in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K,
    we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters
    involving intellectual property rights. We may be subject to
    intellectual property infringement claims from certain
    individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios
    for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other
    companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe
    the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the
    merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur
    significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving
    such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our
    management and technical personnel from our business. As a
    result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we
    could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    pay third-party infringement
    claims;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    discontinue manufacturing, using,
    or selling particular products subject to infringement claims;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    discontinue using the technology
    or processes subject to infringement claims;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    develop other technology not
    subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming
    and costly or may not be possible; and/or
    







     
        • 
    

    
    license technology from the third
    party claiming infringement, which license may not be available
    on commercially reasonable terms.
    





 


    The occurrence of any of the
    foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to
    recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the
    value of our assets and increase expenses. In addition, if we
    alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our
    revenue could be harmed.
    



    
    19



Table of Contents





    We may
    not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property
    rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our
    business.





    Our ability to enforce our
    patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual
    property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well
    as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual
    property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce
    our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual
    property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is
    licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In
    addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often
    results in the other party seeking to assert alleged
    intellectual property rights of its own against us. If we are
    not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these
    claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular
    product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may
    have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of
    operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations or
    courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of
    intellectual property to others, or governments may require that
    products meet specified standards that serve to favor local
    companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property
    rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive
    position and our business.
    


 



    Our
    licenses with other companies and our participation in industry
    initiatives may allow other companies, including our
    competitors, to use our patent rights.





    Companies in the semiconductor
    industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each
    other in order to compete. Many of our competitors have broad
    licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law,
    some of these licenses may permit these competitors to pass our
    patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a
    foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent
    rights in manufacturing competing products. In addition, our
    participation in industry initiatives may require us to license
    our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry
    standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not
    adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result,
    our patents implicated by our participation in industry
    initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against
    others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those
    patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our
    patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property
    may be impaired.
    


 



    Changes
    in our decisions with regard to restructuring and efficiency
    efforts, and other factors, could affect our results of
    operations and financial condition. 





    Factors that could cause actual
    results to differ materially from our expectations with regard
    to restructuring actions include:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    timing and execution of plans and
    programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements,
    including consultation with appropriate work councils;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in assumptions related to
    severance and postretirement costs;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    future dispositions;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    new business initiatives and
    changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in employment levels and
    turnover rates;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in product demand and the
    business environment, including changes related to the current
    uncertainty in global economic conditions; and
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in the fair value of
    certain long-lived assets.
    





 



    In
    order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key
    employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of
    operations.





    In order to compete, we must
    attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key
    employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives,
    scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales
    representatives are critical to our business, and competition
    for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be
    intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified
    employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee
    stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock
    units). If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as
    measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or
    if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as
    a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate
    employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of
    operations.
    



    
    20



Table of Contents





    Our
    failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of
    operations.





    The manufacturing and assembling
    and testing of our products require the use of hazardous
    materials that are subject to a broad array of EHS laws and
    regulations. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable
    laws or regulations could result in:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    regulatory penalties, fines, and
    legal liabilities;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    suspension of production;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    alteration of our fabrication and
    assembly and test processes; and
    







     
        • 
    

    
    curtailment of our operations or
    sales.
    





 


    In addition, our failure to manage
    the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage,
    recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us
    to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future
    environmental laws and regulations could also require us to
    acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our
    product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such
    laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating
    for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under
    existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may
    restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our
    manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. Any of
    these restrictions could harm our business and results of
    operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter
    our manufacturing and assembly and test processes.
    


 



    Climate
    change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm
    our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our
    business.





    In addition to the possible direct
    economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate
    change mitigation programs and regulation can increase our
    costs. For example, the cost of perfluorocompounds (PFCs), a gas
    that we use in our manufacturing, could increase over time under
    some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may
    be imposed by government regulation. If the use of PFCs is
    prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that
    may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing
    operations. We also see the potential for higher energy costs
    driven by climate change regulations. Our costs could increase
    if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those
    associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs,
    or renewable portfolio standards. While we maintain business
    recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from
    natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our
    business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us
    from all such disasters or events. Many of our operations are
    located in semi-arid regions, such as Israel and the
    southwestern United States. Some scenarios predict that these
    regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts
    due to climate change.
    


 



    Changes
    in our effective tax rate may harm our results of
    operations.





    A number of factors may increase
    our future effective tax rates, including:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    the jurisdictions in which profits
    are determined to be earned and taxed;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    the resolution of issues arising
    from tax audits with various tax authorities;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in the valuation of our
    deferred tax assets and liabilities;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    adjustments to income taxes upon
    finalization of various tax returns;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    increases in expenses not
    deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired
    in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill
    in connection with acquisitions;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in available tax credits;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in tax laws or the
    interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally
    accepted accounting principles; and
    







     
        • 
    

    
    our decision to repatriate
    non-U.S. earnings
    for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes.
    





 


    Any significant increase in our
    future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future
    periods.
    



    
    21



Table of Contents





    Interest
    and other, net could be harmed by macroeconomic and other
    factors.





    Factors that could cause interest
    and other, net in our consolidated statements of income to
    fluctuate include:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    fixed-income, equity, and credit
    market volatility, such as that which is being experienced in
    the current global economic environment;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    fluctuations in interest rates;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in our cash and investment
    balances; and
    







     
        • 
    

    
    changes in our hedge accounting
    treatment.
    





 



    Our
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt
    our ongoing business and harm our results of
    operations.





    In pursuing our business strategy,
    we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and
    enter into agreements regarding possible investments,
    acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as
    joint ventures. Acquisitions and other transactions involve
    significant challenges and risks, including risks that:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    we may not be able to identify
    suitable opportunities at terms acceptable to us;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    the transaction may not advance
    our business strategy;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    we may not realize a satisfactory
    return on the investment we make;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    we may not be able to retain key
    personnel of the acquired business; or
    







     
        • 
    

    
    we may experience difficulty in
    integrating new employees, business systems, and technology.
    





 


    When we decide to sell assets or a
    business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing
    divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on
    acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and
    financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in
    business or market conditions. These circumstances could delay
    the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to
    incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we
    want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price
    or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated,
    resulting in a loss on the transaction.
    


 


    If we do enter into agreements
    with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other
    transactions, we may fail to complete them due to:
    







    
    
    



     
        • 
    

    
    failure to obtain required
    regulatory or other approvals;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    intellectual property or other
    litigation;
    







     
        • 
    

    
    difficulties that we or other
    parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the
    transaction; or
    







     
        • 
    

    
    other factors.
    





 


    Further, acquisitions,
    divestitures, and other transactions require substantial
    management resources and have the potential to divert our
    attention from our existing business. These factors could harm
    our business and results of operations.
    



    
    22



Table of Contents



 



    ITEM 1B