ITEM 1A
RISK FACTORS



Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors


This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements in this report,
other than statements that are purely historical, are forward-looking statements. Words such as
“expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “forecasts,” “estimates,” “seeks,” and
similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking
statements include, without limitation, the following:






     
    •
     
    our expectations and beliefs regarding future conduct and growth of the business;



     

     
    •
     
    the assumptions underlying our Critical Accounting Policies, including our estimates
regarding product rebate and return reserves; stock volatility and other assumptions used
to estimate the fair value of share-based compensation; and expected future amortization of
purchased intangible assets;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding competition and our ability to compete effectively;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the investments that we hold are not other-than-temporarily impaired;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that we will be able to obtain any necessary licenses or other rights to any
disputed intellectual property rights on commercially reasonable terms;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our exposure to currency exchange fluctuation risk will not be significant in the future;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our income tax valuation allowance is sufficient;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to meet
our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next 12 months;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding research and development efforts and expenses and the
introduction of new or complementary products and related services and features;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the continuing trend among individual taxpayers toward the use of both
web and desktop software to prepare their own income tax returns will continue to be
important to the growth of our Consumer Tax business;



     

     
    •
     
    our assessments and estimates that determine our effective tax rate;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our facilities are adequate for our near-term
needs and that we will be able to locate additional facilities as
needed;


     

     
    •
     
    our assessments and beliefs regarding the future outcome of pending legal proceedings
and the liability, if any, that Intuit may incur as a result of those proceedings; and



     

     
    •
     
    the expected effects of the adoption of new accounting standards.





We caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current
expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to
read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before
deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. These forward-looking
statements are based on information as of the filing date of this Annual Report, and we undertake
no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason.


14




Table of Contents



Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors
that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
statements. These factors include the following:


We face intense competitive pressures in all of our businesses that may negatively impact our
revenue, profitability and market position.


We have formidable competitors, and we expect competition to remain intense during fiscal 2007 and
beyond. The number, resources and sophistication of the companies with whom we compete have
increased as we continue to expand our product and service offerings. Our competitors may
introduce new and improved products and services, bundle new offerings with market-leading
products, reduce prices, gain better access to distribution channels, advertise aggressively or
beat us to market with new products and services. We also face growing competition from providers
of free online accounting, bookkeeping, tax and other business-related services. Any of these
competitive actions taken over any prolonged period could diminish our revenue and profitability
and could affect our ability to keep existing customers and acquire new customers. Some additional
competitive factors that may impact our businesses are discussed below.


QuickBooks and Payroll and Payments. Losing existing or potential QuickBooks customers to
competitors causes us to lose potential software revenue and also limits our opportunities to sell
related products and services such as our financial supplies, small business payroll and merchant
services offerings. Many competitors provide accounting and business management products and
services to small businesses. For example, Microsoft Corporation currently offers Microsoft Office
Small Business Accounting and offers, in partnership with third parties, several other competitive
products and services, including a payroll solution for small businesses, credit and debit card
processing services, and business checks, forms envelopes and related printed products. We expect
that competition from Microsoft as well as new or currently unidentified competitors will intensify
over time with these and future offerings that directly compete with QuickBooks and our other
offerings. Although we have successfully competed with Microsoft in the past, Microsoft’s small
business product and service offerings may still have a significant negative impact on our future
revenue and profitability.


Our principal competitors in the small business payroll services business benefit from greater
economies of scale due to their substantial size, which may result in pricing pressure for our
offerings. The growth of electronic banking and other electronic payment systems is decreasing the
demand for checks and consequently causing pricing pressure for our financial supplies business as
competitors aggressively compete for share of this shrinking market.


Several of our products also compete with web-based electronic banking, finance tracking and
management tools that are becoming increasingly available at no cost to consumers. If we are
unable to provide products with features and services that compete effectively with these free
offerings, our revenue and profitability may suffer.


Consumer Tax. Our consumer tax business faces significant competition from both the public and
private sector. In the public sector we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities
developing or contracting to provide software or other systems to facilitate tax return preparation
and electronic filing at no charge to taxpayers.






     
    •
     
    Federal Government. Agencies of the U.S. government have made several attempts during
the two most recent presidential administrations to initiate a program to offer taxpayers
free online tax preparation and filing services. However, in October 2002 the Internal
Revenue Service agreed not to provide its own competing tax software product or service so
long as participants in a consortium of tax preparation software companies, including
Intuit, agreed to provide web-based federal tax preparation and filing services at no cost
to qualified taxpayers under an arrangement called the Free File Alliance. In October 2005
the IRS and the Free File Alliance signed a new four-year agreement that continues to
restrict the IRS from entering the tax preparation business. This agreement specifies the
category of taxpayers eligible to receive free services and places limits on the ability of
participating companies to target their free offering to more than 50% of all U.S.
taxpayers. The Free File Alliance has kept the federal government from being a direct
competitor to our tax offerings in the past. However, it has also fostered additional
web-based competition and could cause us to lose significant revenue opportunities from our
Consumer Tax customer base. Companies have used the Free File Alliance and its position on
the IRS web site as a marketing tool by giving away free services at the federal level and
attempting to make money by selling state filing and other services, which has intensified
competition. In addition, persons who formerly have paid for our




15




Table of Contents








     
     
     
    products may elect to use our or our competitors’ unpaid federal offering instead. The IRS
has the right to terminate the agreement with the Free File Alliance upon 24 months written
notice. If the IRS were to terminate the agreement and elect to provide government software
and electronic filing services to taxpayers at no charge, or if other governmental bodies
were to significantly alter the Free File Alliance or require the provision of government
tax filing services directly to taxpayers, our revenue and profits could suffer. See the
discussion on the Free File Alliance in Item 1, “Business – Competition.”



     

     
    •
     
    State Governments. State taxing authorities have also actively pursued various
strategies to provide free online tax return preparation and electronic filing services for
state taxpayers. As of July 31, 2006, 21 states had entered into agreements with the
private sector based on the federal Free File Alliance agreement and had agreed to
discontinue or otherwise not provide direct government tax preparation services. However,
20 other states, including California, directly offered their own online tax preparation
and filing services to taxpayers. For the 2004 and 2005 tax years, California tested a
limited pilot program under which a state-operated electronic system automatically prepared
and filed approximately 10,000 state income tax returns with no individual transaction
charge to those taxpayers. Although the California legislature has not renewed this program
for the 2006 tax year, this program or similar programs could be introduced or expanded in
the future. It is also possible that other governmental entities could elect to provide
similar competitive offerings in the future. These publicly sponsored programs could cause
us to lose customers to free offerings and enable competitors to gain market share at our
expense by using participation in the free alliances as an effective tool to attract
customers to ancillary paid offerings. Given the efficiencies that electronic tax filing
provides to taxing authorities, we anticipate that governmental competition will present a
continued competitive threat to our business for the foreseeable future.



     

     
    •
     
    Private Sector. In the private sector we face intense competition primarily from H&R
Block, the makers of TaxCut software, and increasingly from web-based offerings such as 2nd
Story Software’s TaxACT, where we are subject to significant and increasing price pressure.
We also compete for customers with low-cost assisted tax preparation businesses, such as
H&R Block. In addition, companies that provide free online tax preparation services,
whether through the Free File Alliance or otherwise, may reduce demand for our paid
offerings which would harm our business and results of operations.





Professional Tax. Our ProSeries professional tax offerings face pricing pressure from competitors
seeking to obtain our customers through deep product discounts and loss of customers to competitors
offering no-frills offerings at low prices, such as CCH’s ATX product line. Our Lacerte
professional tax offerings face competition from competitively-priced tax and accounting solutions
that include integration with non-tax functionality.


Other Businesses. Our Quicken products compete both with Microsoft Money, which is aggressively
promoted and priced, and with web-based electronic banking and personal finance tracking and
management tools that are becoming increasingly available at no cost to consumers. These
competitive pressures may result in reduced revenue and lower profitability for our Quicken product
line and related bill payment service offering.


Future revenue growth for our core products depends upon our successful introduction of new and
enhanced products and services.


A number of our businesses derive a significant amount of their revenue through one-time upfront
license fees and rely on customer upgrades and service offerings to generate a significant portion
of their revenues. In addition, our consumer tax business depends significantly on revenue from
customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
As our existing products mature, encouraging customers to purchase product upgrades becomes more
challenging unless new product releases provide features and functionality that have meaningful
incremental value. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of upgraded
products to our customers, our upgrade and service revenues will be harmed. Similarly, our
business will be harmed if we are not successful in our efforts to develop and introduce new
products and services to retain our existing customers, expand our customer base and increase
revenues per customer.


In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on products
or services that do not ultimately succeed in their markets. We have encountered difficulty in
launching new products and services in the past. For example, at the end of fiscal 2005 we
discontinued our SnapTax consumer tax offering and in fiscal 2004 we discontinued our QuickBooks
Premier Healthcare offering due to lack of customer demand. If we misjudge customer needs, our new
products and services will not succeed and our revenues and earnings will be harmed. As we expand
our offerings to new customer categories we run the risk of customers shifting from higher


16




Table of Contents





priced and higher margin products to newly introduced lower priced offerings. For instance, our
QuickBooks Simple Start offering and our ProSeries Basic and ProSeries Express offerings may
attract users that would otherwise have purchased our higher priced, more full featured offerings.


If we fail to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our electronic tax offerings, or
if the IRS or other governmental agencies experience difficulties in receiving customer
submissions, we could lose customers and our revenue and earnings could decrease.


Our web-based tax preparation services and electronic filing services are an important and growing
part of our tax businesses and must effectively handle extremely heavy customer demand during the
peak tax season from January to April. We face significant risks and challenges in maintaining
these services and maintaining adequate service levels, particularly during peak volume service
times. Similarly, governmental entities receiving electronic tax filings must also handle large
volumes of data and may experience difficulties with their systems preventing the receipt of
electronic filings. If customers are unable to file their returns electronically they may elect to
make paper filings. This would result in reduced electronic tax return preparation and filing
revenues and would harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. We have
experienced relatively brief unscheduled interruptions in our electronic filing and/or tax
preparation services during past tax years. For example, on April 17, 2006 we chose to refresh our
systems during the day in preparation for anticipated heavy evening volume and this resulted in
electronic filing services being unavailable to our customers for about twenty minutes. Any
prolonged interruptions in our web-based tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time
during the tax season could result in lost customers, negative publicity and increased operating
costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of
operations.


The nature of our products necessitates timely product launches and if we experience significant
product quality problems or delays, it will harm our revenue, earnings and reputation.


All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that
increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation
software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate
unpredictable tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels
of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by April 15th.
Due to the complexity of our products and the condensed development cycles under which we operate,
our products sometimes contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the
software. When we encounter problems we may be required to modify our code, distribute patches to
customers who have already purchased the product and recall or repackage existing product inventory
in our distribution channels. If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our
products late in our development cycle it may cause us to delay our product launch date. Any major
defects or launch delays could lead to loss of customers and revenue, negative publicity, customer
and employee dissatisfaction, reduced retailer shelf space and promotions, and increased operating
expenses, such as inventory replacement costs, legal fees or payments resulting from our commitment
to reimburse penalties and interest paid by customers due solely to calculation errors in our
consumer tax preparation products.


Possession and use of personal customer information by our businesses presents risks and expenses
that could harm our business.


A number of our businesses collect, use and retain large amounts of personal customer information,
including credit card numbers, tax return information, bank account numbers and passwords, personal
and business financial data, social security numbers and other payroll information. We also
collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business.
Some of this personal customer and employee information is held and managed by third parties. We
and our vendors use commercially available encryption technology to transmit personal information
when taking orders. We use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal
information. However, a third party may be able to circumvent these security and business
measures, and errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a
breach of customer or employee privacy. We employ contractors, temporary and seasonal employees
who may have access to the personal information of customers and employees. While we conduct
necessary and appropriate background checks of these individuals and limit access to personal
information, it is possible one of these individuals could circumvent these controls which would
result in a breach of customer or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in
conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require
notification of data


17




Table of Contents





breach, restrict our use of personal information and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or
market to existing customers. We have incurred – and will continue to incur – significant expenses
to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation,
industry standards or contractual obligations.


In the past we have experienced lawsuits and negative publicity relating to privacy issues and we
could face similar suits in the future. A major breach of customer privacy or security by us or
the third parties that hold and manage personal information could have serious negative
consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced customer
demand for our services, harm to our reputation and brands, further regulation and oversight by
federal or state agencies, and loss of our ability to accept and process customer credit card
orders or tax returns. Although we have sophisticated network and application security, internal
control measures, and physical security procedures to safeguard customer and employee information,
there can be no assurance that a personal information breach, loss or theft will not occur, which
could harm our business, customer reputation and results of operations. If our business expands to
new industry segments that are regulated for privacy and security, or to countries outside the
United States that have more strict data protection laws, our compliance requirements and costs
will increase.


Our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and our quarterly results fluctuate significantly.



Several of our businesses are highly seasonal causing significant quarterly fluctuations in our
financial results. Revenue and operating results are usually strongest during the second and third
fiscal quarters ending January 31 and April 30 due to our tax businesses contributing most of their
revenue during those quarters and the timing of the release of our small business software products
and upgrades. We experience lower revenues, and significant operating losses, in the first and
fourth quarters ending October 31 and July 31. For example, in the second and third quarters of
fiscal 2005 and 2006 we had total net revenue of between $648.2 million and $952.6 million while in
the first and fourth  quarters of fiscal 2005 and 2006 we had total net revenue of between
$252.8 million and $342.9 million. Our financial results can also fluctuate from quarter to
quarter and year to year due to a variety of factors, including changes in product sales mix that
affect average selling prices; product release dates; the timing of our discontinuance of support
for older product offerings; our methods for distributing our products, including the shift to a
consignment model for some of our desktop products sold through retail distribution channels; the
inclusion of upgrades with certain offerings and the timing of our delivery of state tax forms
(both of which can impact the pattern of revenue recognition), and the timing of acquisitions,
divestitures, and goodwill and purchased intangible asset impairment charges.


The growth of our business depends on our ability to adapt to rapid technological change.



The software industry in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving
industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our Right for Me
marketing approach increases the importance for us of developing additional versions of our
products to meet specific customer needs. Our ability to succeed in this rapidly changing
environment requires that we continuously invest resources to enhance our software architecture and
developer tools. We must make this investment in order to continue to enhance our current products
and develop new products to meet changing customer needs and to attract and retain talented
software developers. We are currently in the process of modernizing the software platforms for a
number of our product lines, including our QuickBooks, TurboTax and Quicken products. Completing
these upgrades and adapting to other technological developments may require considerable time and
expense. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in upgrading our software
architecture, our ability to develop new products and enhancements to our current products would
suffer.


Failure to maintain the availability and security of the systems, networks, databases and software
required to operate and deliver our Internet-based products and services could adversely affect our
operating results.


Our ecommerce web sites and our Internet-based product and service offerings, including QuickBooks
Online Edition, QuickBooks Online Payroll, QuickBooks Assisted Payroll Service, Complete web-based
Payroll, Turbo Tax Online, consumer and professional electronic tax filing services, Quicken.com
and QuickBase, rely on a variety of systems, networks and databases, many of which are maintained
by us at our data centers. In order to prevent interruptions to the availability of our ecommerce
web sites and Internet-based products and services, we have implemented practices for creating a
fault-tolerant environment. However, we do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems.
We may also need to grow, reconfigure or relocate our data centers in response to changing


18




Table of Contents





business needs, which may be costly and lead to unplanned disruptions of service. We do not
maintain real-time back-up of our data, and in the event of significant system disruption,
particularly during peak tax filing season, we could experience loss of data or tax return
processing capabilities, which could cause us to lose customers and could materially harm our
operating results. We maintain back-up processing capabilities that are designed to protect us
against site-related disasters for many of our mission-critical applications. Notwithstanding our
efforts to protect against “down time” for our ecommerce web sites and Internet-based products and
services, we do occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. In order to
provide our Internet-based products and services, we must protect the security of our systems,
networks, databases and software.


Like all companies that deliver products and services via the Internet, we are subject to attack by
computer hackers who develop and deploy software that is designed to penetrate the security of our
systems and networks. If hackers were able to penetrate our security systems, they could
misappropriate or damage our proprietary information or cause disruptions in the delivery of our
products and services. We believe that we have taken steps to protect against such attacks.
However, there can be no assurance that our security measures will not be penetrated by hackers.
In the event that the systems, networks, databases and software required to deliver our
Internet-based products and services become unavailable or suffer technical difficulties or a
breach in security, we may be required to expend significant resources to alleviate these problems,
and our operating results could suffer. In addition, any such interruption or breach of security
could damage our reputation and lead to the loss of customers.


Our reliance on a limited number of manufacturing and distribution suppliers could harm our
business.


We have chosen to outsource the manufacturing and distribution of many of our desktop software
products to a small number of third party providers and we use a single vendor to produce and
distribute our check and business forms supplies products. Although our reliance on a small number
of suppliers, or a single supplier, provides us with efficiencies and enhanced bargaining power,
poor performance by or lack of effective communication with these parties can significantly harm
our business. This risk is amplified by the fact that we carry very little inventory and rely on
just-in-time manufacturing processes. In particular, the loss of our principal manufacturing
partner for retail would be disruptive to our business and could cause delay in a product launch.
We seek to mitigate this risk by managing our second tier vendors and maintaining contingency
plans. During fiscal 2004 one of our suppliers was unable to fulfill orders for some of our
software products for a number of days due to operational difficulties and communication errors.
Although together we were able to mitigate the impact of that delay with minimal disruption to our
business, if we experience longer delays, delays during a peak demand period or significant quality
issues our business could be significantly harmed.


Overall capacity for the manufacture of optical media compact discs in the U.S. has decreased due
to a market shift to the DVD format. This decrease in CD production capacity could require us to
identify, review and engage new manufacturing sources within or outside the U.S. or change to DVD
format, which would be more expensive than CD media. This could affect our ability to timely
manufacture and deliver our products at retail, which could harm our financial condition and
results of operations.


As our product and service offerings become more complex our revenue streams may become less
predictable.


Our expanding range of products and services generates more varied revenue streams than our
traditional desktop software businesses. The accounting policies that apply to these revenue
streams are more complex than those that apply to our traditional products and services. We expect
this trend to continue as we expand our offerings. For example, as we begin to offer additional
features and options as part of multiple-element revenue arrangements, we could be required to
defer a higher percentage of our product revenue at the time of sale than we do for traditional
products. This would decrease recognized revenue at the time products are shipped, but result in
increased recognized revenue in fiscal periods after shipment.


We face a number of risks in our merchant card processing business that could result in a reduction
in our revenue and earnings.


Our merchant card processing service business is subject to several risks, including the following:






     
    •
     
    if merchants for whom we process credit card transactions are unable to pay refunds due
to their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant transactions we may
be required to pay those amounts
and our payments may exceed the amount of the customer reserves we have established to make
such payments;




19




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    we will not be able to conduct our business if the bank sponsors and card payment
processors and other service providers that we rely on to process bank card transactions
terminate their relationships with us and we are not able to secure or successfully migrate
our business elsewhere;



     

     
    •
     
    we could be required to stop providing payment processing services for Visa and
MasterCard if we or our bank sponsors fail to adhere to the standards of the Visa and
MasterCard credit card associations;



     

     
    •
     
    we depend on independent sales organizations, some of which do not serve us exclusively,
to acquire and retain merchant accounts;



     

     
    •
     
    we rely increasingly on Superior Bankcard Services, LLC for the acquisition of merchant
accounts;



     

     
    •
     
    our profit margins will be reduced if for competitive reasons we cannot increase our
fees at times when Visa and MasterCard increase the fees that we pay to process merchant
transactions through their systems;



     

     
    •
     
    unauthorized disclosure of merchant and cardholder data, whether through breach of our
computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation; and



     

     
    •
     
    we may encounter difficulties scaling our business systems to support our expected
growth.





Should any of these risks be realized our business could be harmed and our financial results could
suffer.


Our dependence on a small number of larger retailers and distributors could harm our results of
operations.


We sell most of our desktop software products through our retail distribution channel and a
relatively small number of larger retailers and distributors generate a significant portion of our
sales volume. Our principal retailers have significant bargaining leverage due to their size and
available resources. Any change in principal business terms, termination or major disruption of
our relationship with these resellers could result in a potentially significant decline in our
revenues and earnings. For example, the sourcing decisions, product display locations and
promotional activities that retailers undertake can greatly impact the sales of our products. The
fact that we also sell our products directly could cause retailers or distributors to reduce their
efforts to promote our products or stop selling our products altogether. If any of our retailers or
distributors run into financial difficulties we may be unable to collect amounts that we are owed.
At January 31, 2006, in the midst of the 2005 consumer tax season, amounts due from our 10 largest
retailers and distributors represented approximately 51% of total gross accounts receivable.


Failure of our information technology systems or those of our service providers could adversely
affect our future operating results.


We rely on a variety of internal technology systems and technology systems maintained by our
outside manufacturing and distribution suppliers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle
customer service requests, host our web-based activities, support internal operations, and store
customer and company data. These systems could be damaged or interrupted, preventing us or our
service providers from accepting and fulfilling customer orders or otherwise interrupting our
business. In addition, these systems could suffer security breaches, causing company and customer
data to be unintentionally disclosed. Any of these occurrences could adversely impact our
operations. We have experienced system slowdowns and interruptions in the past that have caused
loss of productivity and added expense. We also experience computer server failures from time to
time. To prevent interruptions we must continue to upgrade our information systems to further
improve performance and help ensure that we have adequate recoverability. The expansion and
upgrade of our systems could be costly, and problems with the design or implementation of system
enhancements could harm our ability to take customer orders, ship products, support and invoice our
customers, and otherwise run our business. While we and our outside service partners have backup
systems for certain aspects of our operations, not all of these systems are fully redundant and
disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.


Increased government regulation of tax preparation services could harm our business.


The tax preparation industry has received increased attention from legislative and regulatory
bodies in recent years, both because of the continuing focus on free tax preparation and because of
the nature of certain services used to process and transfer refunds to taxpayers. If legislative
or regulatory bodies increase their regulation or oversight of the tax preparation industry, this
could increase our cost of doing business by imposing new regulations, and could limit our revenue
opportunities by restricting the types of products and services we can offer.


20




Table of Contents



We are required to comply with a variety of state revenue agency standards in order to successfully
operate our tax preparation and electronic filing services. Changes in state-imposed requirements
by one or more of the states, including the required use of specific technologies or technology
standards, could significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our customers and
could prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely manner.


If we do not respond promptly and effectively to customer service and technical support inquiries
we will lose customers and our revenue and earnings will decline.


The effectiveness of our customer service and technical support operations are critical to customer
satisfaction and our financial success. If we do not respond effectively to service and technical
support requests we will lose customers and miss revenue opportunities, such as paid service,
product renewals and new product sales. We occasionally experience customer service and technical
support problems, including longer than expected waiting times for customers when our staffing and
systems are inadequate to handle a higher-than-anticipated volume of requests. Training and
retaining qualified customer service and technical support personnel is particularly challenging
due to the expansion of our product offerings and the seasonality of our tax business. For
example, in fiscal 2006 the number of our consumer tax service representatives ranged from about 50
during off-season months to about 1,050 at the peak of the tax season. If we do not adequately
train our support representatives our customers will not receive an appropriate level of support,
we will lose customers and our financial results will suffer.


If we encounter problems with our third-party customer service and technical support providers our
business will be harmed and our margins will decline.


We outsource a substantial portion of our customer service and technical support activities to
domestic and international third-party service providers, including service providers in India and
the Philippines. We rely heavily on third-party customer service representatives working on our
behalf and we expect to continue to rely heavily on third parties in the future. This strategy
provides us with lower operating costs and greater flexibility, but also presents risks to our
business, including the following:






     
    •
     
    In recent years India and the Philippines have experienced political instability and
changing policies that may impact our operations. In addition, for a number of years India
and Pakistan have been in conflict and an active state of war between the two countries
could disrupt our services;



     

     
    •
     
    Customers may react negatively to providing information to and receiving support from
overseas organizations;



     

     
    •
     
    We may not be able to impact the quality of support that we provide as directly as we
are able to in our company-run call centers;



     

     
    •
     
    International outsourcing has received considerable negative attention in the media and
there are indications that the U.S. Congress may pass legislation that would impact how we
operate and impact customer perceptions of our service. For example, in Congress
legislators have discussed restricting the flow of personal information to overseas
providers and requiring representatives in foreign jurisdictions to affirmatively identify
themselves by name and location; and



     

     
    •
     
    We rely on a global communications infrastructure that may be interrupted in a number of
ways. For example, in fiscal 2004 we had to reroute calls to India when an underwater
cable in the Mediterranean Sea was cut.





We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud and with credit card
processing.


Many of our customers use credit cards or automated payment systems to pay for our products and
services. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of orders placed
with fraudulent credit card or other payment data. For example, under current credit card
practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions if we do not obtain a
cardholder’s signature, a frequent practice in Internet sales. We employ technology solutions to
help us detect fraudulent transactions. However, the failure to detect or control payment fraud
could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.


We are subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, as in
effect from time to time. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements may subject us to
fines and higher transaction fees or cause us to lose our ability to accept credit card payments
from our customers, resulting in harm to our business and results of operations.


21




Table of Contents



If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may exploit our
innovations, which could weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue and earnings.


Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade
secret, trademark, patent, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and
protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into
non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, distributors and corporate partners and
into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation and other proprietary
information. The creation and protection of our proprietary rights are expensive and may require
us to engage in costly and distracting litigation. Despite these precautions, third parties could
copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization. Because we
outsource significant aspects of our product development, manufacturing and distribution we are at
risk that confidential portions of our intellectual property could become public by lapses in
security by our contractors. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future,
certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These
licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our
reputation. It is also possible that other companies could successfully challenge the validity or
scope of our patents and that our patent portfolio, which is relatively small, may not provide us
with adequate protection. Ultimately, our attempts to secure legal protection for our proprietary
rights may not be adequate and our competitors could independently develop similar technologies,
duplicate our products, or design around patents and other intellectual property rights. If our
intellectual property protection proves inadequate we could lose our competitive advantage and our
financial results will suffer.


Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur
significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products.


From time to time, we have received claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights
of others. As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of
these products further overlap, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we
believe that we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, including patent,
copyright, and trademark infringement claims. We expect that software products in general will
increasingly be subject to these claims as the number of products and competitors increase, the
functionality of products overlap and as the patenting of software functionality continues to grow.
We have, from time to time, received allegations of patent infringement claims in the past and may
receive more claims in the future based on allegations that our products infringe upon patents held
by third parties. Future claims could present an exposure of uncertain magnitude. We believe that
we would be able to obtain any necessary licenses or other rights to disputed intellectual property
rights on commercially reasonable terms. However, the ultimate outcome of any allegation is
uncertain and, regardless of outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, could be time
consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time and attention from our
business, require us to stop selling, to delay shipping or to redesign our products, or require us
to pay monetary damages for royalty or licensing arrangements, or to satisfy indemnification
obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our failure to obtain necessary license or
other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims could adversely affect our
business.


In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. These third party
software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. Also, these third
parties may from time to time receive claims that they have infringed the intellectual property
rights of others, including patent and copyright infringement claims, which may affect our ability
to continue licensing their software. Our inability to use any of this third party software could
result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business, which could materially and
adversely affect our operating results.


We expect copying and misuse of our intellectual property to be a persistent problem causing lost
revenue and increased expenses.


Our intellectual property rights are among our most valuable assets. Policing unauthorized use and
copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming. Current U.S. laws that
prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of
many other countries provide very little protection. We may not be able to prevent
misappropriation of our technology. For example, we frequently encounter unauthorized copies of
our software being sold through online auction sites and other online marketplaces. In addition,
efforts to


22




Table of Contents





protect our intellectual property may be misunderstood and perceived negatively by our customers.
Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to lessen the
impact of piracy, and we continue to increase our civil and criminal enforcement efforts, we expect
piracy to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased expenses.


Although we are unable to quantify the extent of piracy of our software products, software piracy
may depress our net revenues. We engage in efforts to educate consumers on the benefits of
licensing genuine products and to educate lawmakers on the advantages of a business climate where
intellectual property rights are protected, and we cooperate with the Software & Information
Industry Association in their efforts to combat piracy. However, these efforts may not
fully combat the effect of piracy of our products.


We do not own all of the software, other technologies and content used in our products and
services.


Many of our products are designed to include intellectual property owned by third parties. We
believe we have all of the necessary licenses from third parties to use and distribute third party
technology and content that we do not own that is used in our current products and services. From
time to time we may be required to renegotiate with these third parties – or negotiate with new
third parties – to include their technology or content in our existing products, in new versions of
our existing products or in wholly new products. We may not be able to negotiate or renegotiate
licenses on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or
continue to use third-party technology or content in our products and services, we may not be able
to sell the affected products, which would in turn have a negative impact on our revenue and
operating results.


Our acquisition activity could disrupt our ongoing business and may present risks not contemplated
at the time of the transactions.


We have acquired and may continue to acquire companies, products and technologies that complement
our strategic direction. These acquisitions may involve significant risks and uncertainties,
including:






     
    •
     
    inability to successfully integrate the acquired technology and operations into our
business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures;



     

     
    •
     
    distraction of management’s attention away from normal business operations;



     

     
    •
     
    challenges retaining the key employees of the acquired operation;



     

     
    •
     
    insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed;



     

     
    •
     
    expenses associated with the acquisition; and



     

     
    •
     
    unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including product
quality issues and legal contingencies.





Acquisitions are inherently risky. We can not be certain that our previous or future acquisitions
will be successful and will not materially adversely affect the conduct, operating results or
financial condition of our business. We have generally paid cash for our recent acquisitions.
Future transactions may involve further use of our cash resources, the issuance of equity or debt
securities, the incurrence of other forms of debt or the amortization of expenses related to
intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. If
we issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders’ percentage
ownership and earnings per share may be diluted.


If actual product returns exceed returns reserves our financial results would be harmed.


We ship more desktop software products to our distributors and retailers than we expect them to
sell, in order to reduce the risk that distributors or retailers will run out of products. This is
particularly true for our Consumer Tax products, which have a short selling season and for which
returns occur primarily in our fiscal third and fourth quarters. Like many software companies that
sell their products through distributors and retailers, we have historically accepted significant
product returns. We establish reserves against revenue for product returns in our financial
statements based on estimated returns and we closely monitor product sales and inventory in the
retail channel in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, returns have not differed
significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual returns that significantly
exceed reserves, it would result in lower net revenue. For example, if we had increased our fiscal
2006 returns reserves by 1% of non-consignment sales to retailers for QuickBooks, TurboTax and
Quicken, our fiscal 2006 total net revenue would have been approximately $3.5 million lower. In
addition, our policy of recognizing revenue from distributors and retailers upon delivery of


23




Table of Contents





product for non-consignment sales is predicated upon our ability to reasonably estimate returns. If
we do not continue to demonstrate our ability to estimate returns then our revenue recognition
policy for these types of sales may no longer be appropriate.


Acquisition-related costs and impairment charges can cause significant fluctuation in our net
income.


Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization of purchased
intangible assets (which is reflected in cost of revenue), charges for in-process research and
development, impairment of goodwill, amortization and impairment of purchased intangible assets and
charges for deferred compensation (which are reflected in operating expenses). Total
acquisition-related costs in the categories identified above were $23.2 million in fiscal 2006,
$26.8 million in fiscal 2005 and $33.6 million in fiscal 2004. Although under current accounting
rules goodwill is no longer amortized, we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill
already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We test the impairment of
goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of impairment
arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in
our fourth fiscal quarter that could not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. For
example, at the end of fiscal 2004 we incurred a goodwill impairment charge of $18.7 million
related to our Intuit Public Sector Solutions business, which was subsequently sold. At July 31,
2006, we had goodwill of $505.0 million and unamortized purchased intangible assets of $59.5
million on our balance sheet, both of which could be subject to impairment charges in the future.
New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of purchased assets, could have a significant
negative impact on our future operating results.


If we fail to operate our payroll business effectively our revenue and earnings will be harmed.


Our payroll business handles a significant amount of dollar and transaction volume. Due to the
size and volume of transactions that we handle, effective processing systems and controls are
essential to ensure that transactions are handled appropriately. Despite our efforts, it is
possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated. In addition to any direct
damages and fines that any such problems would create, which could be substantial, the loss of
customer confidence in our accuracy and controls would seriously harm our business. Our payroll
business has grown largely through acquisitions and our systems are comprised of multiple
technology platforms that are difficult to scale. We must constantly continue to upgrade our
systems and processes to ensure that we process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely
manner. These upgrades must also meet the various regulatory requirements and deadlines associated
with employer-related payroll activities. Any failure of our systems or processes in critical
switch-over times, such as in January when many businesses elect to change payroll service
providers, would be detrimental to our business. If we failed to timely deliver any of our payroll
products, it could cause our current and prospective customers to choose a competitor’s product for
that year’s payroll and not to purchase Intuit products in the future. If these efforts are not
successful our revenue growth and profitability will decline.


Interest income attributable to payroll customer deposits may fluctuate or be eliminated, causing
our revenue and earnings to decline.


We currently record revenue from interest earned on customer deposits that we hold pending payment
of funds to taxing authorities or to customers’ employees. If interest rates decline, or there are
regulatory changes that diminish the amount of time that we are required or permitted to hold such
funds, our interest revenue will decline.


We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.


Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel,
including members of our executive team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions.
Experienced personnel in the software and services industries are in high demand and competition
for their talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley and San Diego, California, where the
majority of our employees are located. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not
be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel which would cause our business
to suffer.



24




Table of Contents



We are frequently a party to litigation that is costly to defend and consumes the time of our
management.


Due to our financial position and the large number of customers that we serve we are often forced
to defend litigation. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for information regarding specific pending
litigation. Defending litigation consumes the time of our management and is expensive for Intuit.
Even though we often seek insurance coverage for litigation defense costs, there is no assurance
that our defense costs, which can be substantial, will be covered in all cases. In addition, by
its nature, litigation is unpredictable and we may not prevail even in cases where we strongly
believe a plaintiff’s case has no valid claims. If we do not prevail in litigation we may be
required to pay substantial monetary damages or alter our business operations. Regardless of the
outcome, litigation is expensive and consumes the time of our management and may ultimately reduce
our income.


Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future financial results.



Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes
in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their
interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax
returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the
likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our
provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous
examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.


If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud
or report our financial results accurately, which could harm our business and the trading price of
our common stock.


We periodically assess our system of internal controls, and the internal controls of service
providers upon which we rely, to review their effectiveness and identify potential areas of
improvement. In addition, from time to time we acquire businesses, many of which have limited
infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls,
implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective controls environment is expensive and
requires considerable management attention. Internal control systems are designed in part upon
assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
system are met. Because of the inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance
that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.
If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls or prevent fraud, we
could suffer losses, could be subject to costly litigation, investors could lose confidence in our
reported financial information and our brand and operating results could be harmed.


We and our independent registered public accounting firm must certify the adequacy of our internal
controls over financial reporting annually. Identification of material weaknesses in internal
controls over financial reporting could harm our competitive position in our business, especially
our payroll business.


Business interruptions could adversely affect our future operating results.



Several of our major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake, fire, power
shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, and other events beyond our control. The
majority of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, our principal
information technology systems, and other critical business operations are located near major
seismic faults. We do not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses. While we
maintain disaster recovery facilities for key data centers that support the information systems,
networks and databases that are necessary to operate our business, we are still in the process of
establishing disaster recovery facilities for some of our data centers. Our operating results and
financial condition could be materially harmed in the event of a major earthquake or other natural
or man-made disaster.


25




Table of Contents






ITEM 1B