ITEM 1A


RISK FACTORS



Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors


This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements in this report,
other than statements that are purely historical, are forward-looking statements. Words such as
“expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “forecasts,” “estimates,” “seeks,” and
similar expressions also identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking
statements include, without limitation, the following:







     
    •
     
    our expectations and beliefs regarding future conduct and growth of the business;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding competition and our ability to compete effectively;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding the development of future products, services and technology
platforms and our research and development efforts;



     

     
    •
     
    the assumptions underlying our critical accounting policies and estimates, including our
estimates regarding product rebate and return reserves; stock volatility and other
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based compensation; and expected
future amortization of purchased intangible assets;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the investments that we hold are not other-than-temporarily impaired;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our exposure to currency exchange fluctuation risk will not be significant in the future;



     

     
    •
     
    our assessments and estimates that determine our effective tax rate;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our income tax valuation allowance is sufficient;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from
operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure
requirements for at least the next 12 months;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the continuing trend among individual taxpayers toward the use of
software to prepare their own income tax returns will continue to be important to the
growth of our Consumer Tax business;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that long-term trends toward the use of both online and desktop software will
provide us future growth opportunities;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding expansion of our sales and distribution channels;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding future expenditures for property, equipment, infrastructure and data centers;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our facilities are adequate for our near-term needs and that we will be
able to locate additional facilities as needed;



     

     
    •
     
    our assessments and beliefs regarding the future outcome of pending legal proceedings
and the liability, if any, that Intuit may incur as a result of those proceedings; and



     

     
    •
     
    the expected effects of the adoption of new accounting standards.




We caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current
expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to
read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before
deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. These forward-looking
statements are based on information as of the filing date of this Annual Report, and we undertake
no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason.



Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors
that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
statements. These factors include the following:


We face intense competitive pressures in all of our businesses that may harm our operating results.


We have formidable competitors, and we expect competition to remain intense during fiscal 2008 and
beyond. The number, resources and sophistication of the companies with whom we compete have
increased as we continue to expand our product and service offerings. Our competitors may
introduce new and improved products and services, bundle new offerings with market-leading
products, reduce prices, gain better access to distribution channels, advertise aggressively or
beat us to market with new products and services. We also face growing competition from providers
of free online and desktop accounting, tax, banking and other financial services. Any of these
competitive actions taken over any prolonged period could diminish our revenue and profitability
and could affect our ability to keep existing customers and acquire new customers.



16




Table of Contents





QuickBooks and Payroll and Payments. Losing existing or potential QuickBooks customers to
competitors causes us to lose potential revenue in the short-term and limits our opportunities to
sell related products and services in the future. Many competitors provide accounting and business
management products and services to small businesses. For example, Microsoft Corporation currently
offers a version of its small business accounting software for no additional charge to users of its
operating system, and offers, in partnership with third parties, several other competitive products
and services for small businesses. Although we have successfully competed with Microsoft in the
past, Microsoft’s small business offerings may have a significant negative impact on our future
revenue and profitability.


We may experience pricing pressure for our small business payroll offerings due to the larger size
and economies of scale of certain competitors in that business. The growth of electronic banking
and other electronic payment systems is decreasing the demand for checks and consequently causing
pricing pressure for our financial supplies business as competitors aggressively compete for share
of this shrinking market.


Consumer Tax. Our consumer tax business faces significant competition from both the public and
private sector. In the public sector we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities
developing or contracting to provide software or other systems to facilitate tax return preparation
and electronic filing at no charge to taxpayers.







     
    •
     
    Government Encroachment. Agencies of the U.S. federal and state governments have made
several recent attempts to offer taxpayers free online tax preparation and filing services.
In October 2002 the Internal Revenue Service agreed not to provide its own competing tax
software product or service so long as participants in a consortium of tax preparation
software companies, including Intuit, agreed to provide Web-based federal tax preparation
and filing services at no cost to qualified taxpayers under an arrangement called the Free
File Alliance. In October 2005 the IRS and the Free File Alliance signed a new four-year
agreement that continues to restrict the IRS from entering the tax preparation business.
Although the Free File Alliance has kept the federal government from being a direct
competitor to Intuit’s tax offerings, it has fostered additional Web-based competition and
could cause us to lose significant revenue opportunities from our Consumer Tax customer
base. Companies have used the Free File Alliance and its position on the IRS Web site as a
marketing tool to grow brand awareness and attract customers to their other paid services,
including state tax filing, which has intensified competition. In addition, taxpayers who
formerly have paid for Intuit’s products may elect to use our or our competitors’ free
federal service instead. The IRS retains the right to terminate the agreement with the Free
File Alliance upon 24 months written notice. If the IRS were to terminate the agreement and
elect to provide government software and electronic filing services to taxpayers at no
charge, or if the federal government were to significantly alter the Free File Alliance or
require the provision of government tax filing services directly to taxpayers, our revenue
and profits could suffer. See the discussion on the Free File Alliance in Item 1, “Business
– Competition.”



     

     
     
     
    In 2007, approximately 20 state governments had agreements with the private sector based on
the federal Free File Alliance agreement and had agreed to discontinue or otherwise not
provide direct government tax preparation services. However, approximately 20 other states,
including California, directly offered their own online tax preparation and filing services
to taxpayers. For the 2004 and 2005 tax years California tested a limited pilot program
under which a state-operated electronic system automatically prepared and filed
approximately 10,000 state income tax returns with no individual transaction charge to those
taxpayers. The California Franchise Tax Board voted in December 2006 to renew and expand the
program for tax year 2007, even though the California legislature had previously enacted a
law restricting the extension of this program beyond the 2005 tax year. These or similar
programs could be introduced or expanded in the future, which could cause us to lose
customers and enable our competitors to gain market share by using free offerings to attract
customers to ancillary paid offerings. We anticipate that governmental encroachment will
present a continued competitive threat to our business for the foreseeable future.



     

     
    •
     
    Private Sector Competition. In the private sector we face intense competition primarily
from H&R Block, which offers tax preparation services and software, and from other
companies offering Web-based offerings such as 2nd Story Software, which subjects us to
significant and increasing price pressure. In addition, the availability of free online
tax preparation services, whether through the Free File Alliance or otherwise, may reduce
demand for our paid offerings which would harm our business and results of operations.
Pricing pressure may also cause us to bundle products and services for which we have




17




Table of Contents










previously charged separate fees, which could lead to a decrease or deferral of revenue and
could harm our operating results.

Professional Tax. Our ProSeries professional tax offerings face pricing pressure from competitors
seeking to obtain our customers through deep product discounts and loss of customers to competitors
with offerings at lower prices. Our Lacerte professional tax offerings face competition from
competitively-priced tax and accounting solutions that include integration with non-tax
functionality.


Financial Institutions. In February 2007 we completed the acquisition of Digital Insight
Corporation, which provides outsourced online banking applications and services to financial
institutions including banks and credit unions. We now compete with several companies that provide
these services to financial institutions. The market for online banking services is highly
competitive. We face competition from two main sources: other companies similar to Digital Insight
that offer outsourced Internet banking offerings, and vendors of core processing services to
financial institutions. Also, vendors that primarily target the largest financial institutions
occasionally compete in our target market. In some instances, we also compete with companies with
whom we have referral or reseller relationships. Some of our current and potential competitors
have longer operating histories and may be in a better position to produce and market their
services due to their greater technical, marketing and other resources, as well as their greater
name recognition and larger installed bases of customers. In addition, many of our competitors
have well-established relationships with our current and potential financial institution customers
and core processing vendors and have extensive knowledge of our industry.


As we negotiate the renewal of long-term service contracts with current customers, we may be
subject to competitive pressures and other factors that may require concessions on pricing and
other material contract terms to induce the customer to remain with us. We depend on our financial
institution clients to market and promote our products to their end user customers, but these
efforts may not be successful, and we may not be able to persuade potential customers to adopt our
solutions in place of financial institutions’ own proprietary solutions or offerings by third
parties. If we are unable to compete effectively with other online banking service providers, our
business results may suffer.



Future revenue growth for our core products depends upon our successful introduction of new and
enhanced products and services.


A number of our businesses derive a significant amount of their revenue through one-time upfront
license fees and rely on customer upgrades and service offerings to generate a significant portion
of their revenues. In addition, our consumer tax business depends significantly on revenue from
customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
As our existing products mature, encouraging customers to purchase product upgrades becomes more
challenging unless new product releases provide features and functionality that have meaningful
incremental value. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of upgraded
products to our customers, our upgrade and service revenues will be harmed. Similarly, our
business will be harmed if we are not successful in our efforts to develop and introduce new
products and services to retain our existing customers, expand our customer base and increase
revenues per customer. Unless our online banking offerings are successfully deployed and marketed
by a significant number of financial institutions and achieve widespread market acceptance by their
end user customers for a significant period of time, our business may also be harmed.


In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on products
or services that do not ultimately succeed in their markets. We have encountered difficulty in
launching new products and services in the past. For example, due to lack of customer demand we
discontinued our SnapTax consumer tax offering at the end of fiscal 2005 and we discontinued our
Easy Estimator for contractors offering at the end of fiscal 2007. If we misjudge customer needs,
our new products and services will not succeed and our revenues and earnings will be harmed. As we
expand our offerings to new customer categories we run the risk of customers shifting from higher
priced and higher margin products to newly introduced lower priced offerings. For instance, our
QuickBooks Simple Start and ProSeries Basic offerings may attract users that would otherwise have
purchased our higher priced, more full featured offerings.




18




Table of Contents



If we fail to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our electronic tax
offerings, or if the IRS or other governmental agencies experience difficulties in receiving
customer submissions, we could lose customers and our revenue and earnings could decrease.


Our Web-based tax preparation services and electronic filing services are an important and growing
part of our tax businesses and must effectively handle extremely heavy customer demand during the
peak tax season from January to April. We face significant risks and challenges in maintaining
these services and maintaining adequate service levels, particularly during peak volume service
times. Similarly, governmental entities receiving electronic tax filings must also handle large
volumes of data and may experience difficulties with their systems preventing the receipt of
electronic filings. If customers are unable to file their returns electronically they may elect to
make paper filings. This would result in reduced electronic tax return preparation and filing
revenues and would harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. For example,
on April 17, 2007 our customers experienced significant delays in electronically filing their
income tax returns due to an intermittent database problem in our e-filing system. We refunded
approximately $9 million in credit card charges for our consumer electronic filing and online tax
preparation services that were made during the time that the delays occurred. These refunds did not
have a significant impact on our fiscal 2007 financial condition or results of operations. However,
we may experience problems with our online systems and services in the future, and any prolonged
interruptions in our Web-based tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the
tax season would result in lost customers, additional refunds of customer charges, negative
publicity and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations.


The nature of our products necessitates timely product launches and if we experience significant
product quality problems or delays, it will harm our revenue, earnings and reputation.


All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that
increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation
software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate
unpredictable tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels
of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing
deadline. Due to the complexity of our products and the condensed development cycles under which
we operate, our products sometimes contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with the
operation of the software. When we encounter problems we may be required to modify our code,
distribute patches to customers who have already purchased the product and recall or repackage
existing product inventory in our distribution channels. If we encounter development challenges or
discover errors in our products late in our development cycle it may cause us to delay our product
launch date. Any major defects or launch delays could lead to loss of customers and revenue,
negative publicity, customer and employee dissatisfaction, reduced retailer shelf space and
promotions, and increased operating expenses, such as inventory replacement costs, legal fees or
payments resulting from our commitment to reimburse penalties and interest paid by customers due
solely to calculation errors in our consumer tax preparation products.


Our
businesses collect, use and retain personal customer information and
enable customer transactions, which presents security
risks, requires us to incur expenses and could harm our business.


A number of our businesses collect, use and retain large amounts of personal customer information,
including credit card numbers, tax return information, bank account numbers and passwords, personal
and business financial data, social security numbers and other payroll information. These
businesses also enable customers to perform various transactions. In addition, we collect and
maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this
personal customer and employee information is held and some transactions are executed by third
parties. We and our vendors use commercially available security technologies to protect
transactions and personal information. We use security and business controls to limit access and
use of personal information. However, a third party may be able to circumvent these security and
business measures, and errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could
result in a breach of customer or employee privacy or theft of assets. We employ contractors,
temporary and seasonal employees who may have access to the personal information of customers and
employees or who may execute transactions in the normal course of their duties. While we conduct
necessary and appropriate background checks of these individuals and limit access to systems and
data, it is possible that one or more of these individuals could circumvent these controls,
resulting in a security breach. The ability to execute transactions and the possession and use of
personal information in conducting our

19




Table of Contents





business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens
that could require notification of a security breach, restrict
our use of personal information and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or market to
existing customers. We have incurred — and will continue to incur — significant expenses to
comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation,
industry standards or contractual obligations.


In the past we have experienced lawsuits and negative publicity relating to privacy issues and we
could face similar suits in the future. A major breach of our security measures or those of third
parties that execute transactions or hold and manage personal information could have serious
negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced
customer demand for our services, harm to our reputation and brands, further regulation and
oversight by federal or state agencies, and loss of our ability to provide financial transaction
services or accept and process customer credit card orders or tax returns. From time to time, we detect, or receive notices from customers or public or private agencies
that they have detected, vulnerabilities in our software or in third-party software components that
are distributed with our products. The existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in
a security breach, can harm customer confidence and require substantial resources to address, and
we may not be able to discover or remediate such security vulnerabilities before they are
exploited. Although we have
sophisticated network and application security, internal control measures, and physical security
procedures to safeguard our systems, there can be no assurance that a security breach, loss or
theft of personal information will not occur, which could harm our business, customer reputation
and results of operations. If our business expands to new industry segments that are regulated for
privacy and security, or to countries outside the United States that have more strict data
protection laws, our compliance requirements and costs will increase.


Our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and our quarterly results fluctuate significantly.


Several of our businesses are highly seasonal causing significant quarterly fluctuations in our
financial results. Revenue and operating results are usually strongest during the second and third
fiscal quarters ending January 31 and April 30 due to our tax businesses contributing most of their
revenue during those quarters and the timing of the release of our small business software products
and upgrades. We experience lower revenues, and significant operating losses, in the first and
fourth quarters ending October 31 and July 31. For example, in the second and third quarters of
fiscal 2006 and 2007 we had total net revenue of between $731.5 million and $1.14 billion while in
the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2006 and 2007 we had total net revenue of between $292.1
million and $432.7 million. Our financial results can also fluctuate from quarter to quarter and
year to year due to a variety of factors, including changes in product sales mix that affect
average selling prices; product release dates; the timing of our discontinuance of support for
older product offerings; our methods for distributing our products, including the shift to a
consignment model for some of our desktop products sold through retail distribution channels;
changes to our bundling strategy, including the inclusion of upgrades with certain offerings,
changes to how we communicate the availability of new functionality in the future, and the timing
of our delivery of state tax forms (any of which can impact the pattern of revenue recognition);
and the timing of acquisitions, divestitures, and goodwill and purchased intangible asset
impairment charges.


The growth of our business depends on our ability to adapt to rapid technological change.


The software industry in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving
industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We must continually
invest in our software architecture and developer tools in order to enhance our current products
and develop new products to meet changing customer needs and to attract and retain talented
software developers. We are currently in the process of modernizing the software platforms for a
number of our product lines, including our QuickBooks, payroll, merchant services, TurboTax,
Lacerte, Proseries and Quicken products and services. Completing these upgrades and adapting to
other technological developments may require considerable time and expense. If we experience
prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in upgrading our software architecture, our ability to
develop new products and enhancements to our current products would suffer.


Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could compromise
the availability and security of our online products and services, which could damage our
reputation and harm our operating results.


The availability of our online products and services, including TurboTax Online, tax filing
services, QuickBooks Online Edition, online payroll and banking services, and online commerce
sites, depends on a the continuing operation of our information technology and communication
systems and those of our external service providers. Any damage to or failure of our systems could
result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenues and profits, and damage our
brand. In order to prevent interruptions to the availability of our ecommerce Web sites and
Internet-based products and services, we have implemented practices for creating a fault-tolerant


20




Table of Contents





environment. However, we do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems, and our disaster
recovery
planning cannot account for all eventualities. Despite our efforts to maintain continuous and
reliable server operations, we occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties.
Due to our evolving business needs and real estate planning, we have begun executing a plan to
build a new data center in Washington state to support our longer term hosting requirements. If we
do not execute this transition to the new data center in an effective manner, we could experience
unplanned service disruptions or unforeseen increases in cost which could harm our operating
results and our business. We do not maintain real-time back-up of our data, and in the event of
significant system disruption, particularly during peak tax filing season, we could experience loss
of data or processing capabilities, which could cause us to lose customers and could materially
harm our reputation and our operating results.


Our data centers and our information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage
or interruption from natural disasters, malicious attacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications
failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our
systems. If hackers were able to circumvent our security measures, we could lose proprietary
information or experience significant disruptions in the delivery of our products and services. If
our systems become unavailable or suffer a security breach, we may expend significant resources to
address these problems, and our reputation and operating results could suffer.


We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and
service providers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests and host
certain online activities. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems could
prevent us or our service providers from accepting and fulfilling customer orders or cause company
and customer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and expand
our network security and other information systems could be costly, and problems with the design or
implementation of system enhancements could harm our business and our results of operations.


Our reliance on a limited number of manufacturing and distribution suppliers could harm our
business.


We have chosen to outsource the manufacturing and distribution of many of our desktop software
products to a small number of third party providers and we use a single vendor to produce and
distribute our check and business forms supplies products. Although our reliance on a small number
of suppliers, or a single supplier, provides us with efficiencies and enhanced bargaining power,
poor performance by or lack of effective communication with these parties can significantly harm
our business. This risk is amplified by the fact that we carry very little inventory and rely on
just-in-time manufacturing processes. In particular, the loss of our principal manufacturing
partner for retail would be disruptive to our business and could cause delay in a product launch.
We seek to mitigate this risk by managing our second tier vendors and maintaining contingency
plans. If we experience delays during a peak demand period or significant quality issues our
business could be significantly harmed.


As our product and service offerings become more complex our revenue streams may become less
predictable.


Our expanding range of products and services generates more varied revenue streams than our
traditional desktop software businesses. The accounting policies that apply to these revenue
streams are more complex than those that apply to our traditional products and services. We expect
this trend to continue as we expand our offerings. For example, as we begin to offer additional
features and options as part of multiple-element revenue arrangements, we could be required to
defer a higher percentage of our product revenue at the time of sale than we do for traditional
products. This would decrease recognized revenue at the time products are shipped, but result in
increased recognized revenue in fiscal periods after shipment.


We face a number of risks in our merchant card processing business that could result in a reduction
in our revenue and earnings.


Our merchant card processing service business is subject to several specific risks, including the
following:






     
    •
     
    if merchants for whom we process credit card transactions are unable to pay refunds due
to their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant transactions we may
be required to pay those amounts and our payments may exceed the amount of the customer
reserves we have established to make such payments;




21




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    we will not be able to conduct our business if the bank sponsors and card payment
processors and other service providers that we rely on to process bank card transactions
terminate their relationships with us and we are not able to secure or successfully migrate
our business elsewhere;



     

     
    •
     
    if we or our bank sponsors fail to adhere to the data security and other standards of
the payment card associations, we may lose our ability to provide payment processing
services for Visa, MasterCard and other payment cards;



     

     
    •
     
    we depend on independent sales organizations, some of which do not serve us exclusively,
as well as Superior Bankcard Services, a joint venture in which we participate, to acquire
and retain merchant accounts;



     

     
    •
     
    our profit margins will be reduced if for competitive reasons we cannot increase our
fees at times when Visa and MasterCard increase the fees that we pay to process merchant
transactions through their systems;



     

     
    •
     
    unauthorized disclosure of merchant and cardholder data, whether through breach of our
computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation; and



     

     
    •
     
    we may encounter difficulties scaling our business systems to support our expected
growth.





Should any of these risks be realized our business and financial results would suffer.


Risks associated with our financial institutions business may harm our results of operations and
financial condition.


In February 2007 we completed the acquisition of Digital Insight, a provider of outsourced online
banking services and applications to financial institutions. This new financial institutions
business is subject to several risks, including the following:






     
    •
     
    consolidation among core processing vendors may affect our reseller and revenue-sharing
agreements with certain core processor organizations or reduce the likelihood of extending
our agreements at expiration;



     

     
    •
     
    if any of our products fail to be supported by financial institutions’ core processing
vendors, we would have to redesign our products to suit these financial institutions, and
we cannot assure that any redesign could be accomplished in a cost-effective or timely
manner, and we could experience higher implementation costs or the loss of current and
potential customers;



     

     
    •
     
    the financial institutions business experiences lengthy sales cycles for a variety of
reasons, which could cause us to expend substantial employee and management resources
without making a sale or could cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated
levels for a particular quarter; and



     

     
    •
     
    consolidation of the banking and financial services industry could result in a smaller
market for our products and services, may cause us to lose relationships with key
customers, or may result in a change in the technological infrastructure of the combined
entity, which may make it difficult to integrate our offerings.





Our dependence on a small number of larger retailers and distributors could harm our results of
operations.


We sell most of our desktop software products through our retail distribution channel and a
relatively small number of larger retailers and distributors generate a significant portion of our
sales volume. Our principal retailers have significant bargaining leverage due to their size and
available resources. Historically, some retailers have elected to offer our tax products
exclusively. Any change in principal business terms, loss of exclusivity, major disruption or
termination of a relationship with these resellers could result in a potentially significant
decline in our revenues and earnings. The sourcing decisions, product display locations and
promotional activities that retailers undertake can greatly impact the sales of our products. The
fact that we also sell our products directly could cause retailers or distributors to reduce their
efforts to promote our products or stop selling our products altogether. If any of our retailers or
distributors experience financial difficulties we may be unable to collect amounts that we are
owed. At January 31, 2007, in the midst of the 2006 consumer tax season, amounts due from our 10
largest retailers and distributors represented approximately 57% of total gross accounts
receivable.


Increased government regulation of our businesses could harm our operating results.


The tax preparation industry has received increased attention from legislative and regulatory
bodies in recent years, both because of the continuing focus on free tax preparation and because of
the nature of certain services used to process and transfer refunds to taxpayers. If legislative
or regulatory bodies increase their regulation or oversight of the tax preparation industry or
restrict the types of products and services that can be offered to consumers, this could


22




Table of Contents





increase
our cost of doing business by requiring compliance with new regulations, and could limit our
revenue opportunities.


We are also required to comply with a variety of state revenue agency standards in order to
successfully operate our tax preparation and electronic filing services. Changes in state-imposed
requirements by one or more of the states, including the required use of specific technologies or
technology standards, could significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our
customers and could prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely
manner.


Our financial institutions business provides services to banks, credit unions and other
institutions that are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. As a result,
our financial institution customers require that our products and services comply with the
regulations applicable to these customers. If we are unable to comply with these regulations, we
could incur significant costs and penalties, face litigation or governmental proceedings, and lose
our ability to sell to these customers. Any of these adverse events could harm our results of
operations and our reputation. In addition, as we seek to grow our business, we may expand into
more highly-regulated areas, which will require increased investment in compliance and auditing
functions or new technologies in order to meet regulatory standards. Government authorities could
adopt other laws, rules or regulations that place new burdens or restrictions on our business or
determine that our operations are directly subject to existing rules or regulations, such as
requirements related to data collection, retention and processing, which could make our business
more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and could require us to modify our current or
future products or services, which could harm our operating results.


If we do not respond promptly and effectively to customer service and technical support inquiries
we will lose customers and our revenue and earnings will decline.


The effectiveness of our customer service and technical support operations are critical to customer
satisfaction and our financial success. If we do not respond effectively to service and technical
support requests we will lose customers and miss revenue opportunities, such as paid service,
product renewals and new product sales. We occasionally experience customer service and technical
support problems, including longer than expected waiting times for customers when our staffing and
systems are inadequate to handle a higher-than-anticipated volume of requests. Training and
retaining qualified customer service and technical support personnel is particularly challenging
due to the expansion of our product offerings and the seasonality of our tax business. For
example, although many of our consumer tax service representatives return each tax season, it is
challenging to expand the number of representatives from about 150 during off-season months to
about 1,500 at the peak of the season. If we do not adequately train our support representatives
our customers will not receive an appropriate level of support, we will lose customers and our
financial results will suffer.


If we encounter problems with our third-party customer service and technical support providers our
business and operating results will be harmed.


We outsource a substantial portion of our customer service and technical support activities to
domestic and international third-party service providers, including service providers in India and
the Philippines, and we expect to continue to rely heavily on third parties in the future. This
strategy provides us with lower operating costs and greater flexibility, but also presents risks to
our business, including the following:






     
    •
     
    In recent years India and the Philippines have experienced political instability and
changing policies that may impact our operations. In addition, for a number of years India
and Pakistan have been in conflict and an active state of war between the two countries
could disrupt our services.



     

     
    •
     
    Customers may react negatively to providing information to and receiving support from
overseas organizations.



     

     
    •
     
    We may not be able to affect the quality of support as directly as we are able to in our
company-run call centers.



     

     
    •
     
    International outsourcing has received considerable negative attention in the media,
which could harm our reputation, and the U.S. government may adopt legislation that would
affect how we operate and how customers perceive our service. For example, members of the
U.S. Congress have discussed restricting the flow of personal information to overseas
providers and requiring representatives in foreign jurisdictions to affirmatively identify
themselves by name and location.




23




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    We rely on a global communications infrastructure that may be interrupted in a number of
ways. For example, in fiscal 2007 an earthquake in Taiwan caused temporary disruption to
overseas infrastructure.





We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud and with credit card
processing.


Many of our customers use credit cards or automated payment systems to pay for our products and
services. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of orders placed
with fraudulent credit card or other payment data. For example, under current credit card
practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions if we do not obtain a
cardholder’s signature, a frequent practice in Internet sales. We employ technology solutions to
help us detect fraudulent transactions. However, the failure to detect or control payment fraud
could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.


We are subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, as in
effect from time to time. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements may subject us to
fines and higher transaction fees or cause us to lose our ability to accept credit card payments
from our customers, resulting in harm to our business and results of operations.


If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may exploit our
innovations, which could weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue and earnings.


Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade
secret, trademark, patent, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and
protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into
non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, distributors and corporate partners and
into license agreements with respect to our software, documentation and other proprietary
information. The creation and protection of our proprietary rights are expensive and may require
us to engage in costly and distracting litigation. Despite these precautions, third parties could
copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization. Because we
outsource significant aspects of our product development, manufacturing and distribution we are at
risk that confidential portions of our intellectual property could become public by lapses in
security by our contractors. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future,
certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These
licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our
reputation. It is also possible that other companies could successfully challenge the validity or
scope of our patents and that our patent portfolio, which is relatively small, may not provide us
with adequate protection. Ultimately, our attempts to secure legal protection for our proprietary
rights may not be adequate and our competitors could independently develop similar technologies,
duplicate our products, or design around patents and other intellectual property rights. If our
intellectual property protection proves inadequate we could lose our competitive advantage and our
financial results will suffer.


Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur
significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products.


From time to time, we have received claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights
of others. As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of
these products further overlap, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we
believe that we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, including patent,
copyright, and trademark infringement claims. We expect that software products in general will
increasingly be subject to these claims as the number of products and competitors increase, the
functionality of products overlap and as the patenting of software functionality continues to grow.
We have, from time to time, received allegations of patent infringement claims in the past and may
receive more claims in the future based on allegations that our products infringe upon patents held
by third parties. Some of these claims are currently the subject of pending litigation against us
and against some of our OEM customers. These claims may involve patent holding companies or other
adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenues of their own, and against whom our own
patents may provide little or no deterrence. Future claims could present an exposure of uncertain
magnitude. The ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain and, regardless of outcome, any
such claim, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation,
divert management’s time and attention from our business, require us to stop selling, to delay
shipping or to redesign our products, or require us to pay monetary damages for royalty or
licensing arrangements, or to satisfy indemnification


24




Table of Contents





obligations that we have with some of our
customers. Our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of
intellectual property claims could adversely affect our business.


In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. These third party
software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. Also, these third
parties may from time to time receive
claims that they have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including patent and
copyright infringement claims, which may affect our ability to continue licensing their software.
Our inability to use any of this third party software could result in shipment delays or other
disruptions in our business, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.


We expect copying and misuse of our intellectual property to be a persistent problem causing lost
revenue and increased expenses.


Our intellectual property rights are among our most valuable assets. Policing unauthorized use and
copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming. Current U.S. laws that
prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of
many other countries provide very little protection. We may not be able to prevent
misappropriation of our technology. For example, we frequently encounter unauthorized copies of
our software being sold through online auction sites and other online marketplaces. In addition,
efforts to protect our intellectual property may be misunderstood and perceived negatively by our
customers. Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to
lessen the impact of piracy, and we continue to increase our civil and criminal enforcement
efforts, we expect piracy to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased
expenses.


Although we are unable to quantify the extent of piracy of our software products, software piracy
may depress our net revenues. We engage in efforts to educate consumers on the benefits of
licensing genuine products and to educate lawmakers on the advantages of a business climate where
intellectual property rights are protected, and we cooperate with the Software & Information
Industry Association in their efforts to combat piracy. However, these efforts may not
fully combat the effect of piracy of our products.


We do not own all of the software, other technologies and content used in our products and
services.


Many of our products are designed to include intellectual property owned by third parties. We
believe we have all of the necessary licenses from third parties to use and distribute third party
technology and content that we do not own that is used in our current products and services. From
time to time we may be required to renegotiate with these third parties — or negotiate with new
third parties — to include their technology or content in our existing products, in new versions
of our existing products or in wholly new products. We may not be able to negotiate or renegotiate
licenses on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or
continue to use third-party technology or content in our products and services, we may not be able
to sell the affected products, which would in turn have a negative impact on our revenue and
operating results.


Certain of our offerings include third-party software that is licensed under so-called “open
source” licenses, some of which may include a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we
make available, or grant licenses to, any modifications or derivative works we create based upon
the open source software. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to
mitigate these risks, we cannot be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval
prior to use in our products. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be
eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, harm our business.


Our acquisition and divestiture activities could disrupt our ongoing business, may involve
increased expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions.


We have acquired and may continue to acquire companies, products and technologies that complement
our strategic direction. In February 2007 we completed the acquisition of Digital Insight for
total consideration of approximately $1.34 billion including the value of assumed vested options.
Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:






     
    •
     
    inability to successfully integrate the acquired technology and operations into our
business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures;



     

     
    •
     
    inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition;




25




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    distraction of management’s attention away from normal business operations;



     

     
    •
     
    challenges retaining the key employees, customers, resellers and other business partners
of the acquired operation;



     

     
    •
     
    lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies or the initial dependence on
unfamiliar supply or distribution partners;



     

     
    •
     
    insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed;



     

     
    •
     
    expenses associated with the acquisition; and



     

     
    •
     
    unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including product or
service quality issues, intellectual property issues and legal contingencies.





Acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky. We can not be certain that our previous,
pending or future transactions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect the
conduct, operating results or financial condition of our business. Many transactions are subject
to closing conditions, which may not be satisfied, and transactions may not be successfully
completed even after their public announcement. We have generally paid cash for our recent
acquisitions. These transactions may involve further use of our cash resources, the issuance of
equity or debt securities, the incurrence of other forms of debt, the amortization of expenses
related to intangible assets, or potential future impairment charges related to goodwill that we
record on our balance sheet, which will be subject to annual testing in the future, any of which
could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we allocated a
portion of the purchase price for Digital Insight to goodwill, which could be subject to potential
future impairment charges, and we also allocated a portion of the purchase price to identified
intangible assets, which we expect to amortize over a period of three to five years. Further, we
funded $1 billion of the purchase price of Digital Insight with the proceeds of senior unsecured
notes. The use of debt to fund acquisitions or for other purposes significantly increases our
interest expense and leverage. If we issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition,
current shareholders’ percentage ownership and earnings per share may be diluted.


In March 2007 we sold certain assets related to our Complete Payroll and Premier Payroll Service
businesses to ADP. Because the final purchase price is contingent upon the number of customers that
transition to ADP, the final purchase price could be materially less than the maximum purchase
price if we do not successfully transition customers. We also expect to recognize any gain on the
sale of these assets over a period not to exceed one year from the date of sale. Although ADP is
obligated to pay us certain fees to service customers prior to their transition to ADP, our costs
to service these customers may exceed those fees.


We have issued $1 billion in a debt offering and may incur other debt in the future, which could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.


In connection with the acquisition of Digital Insight, we have issued $1 billion in senior
unsecured notes. We have also entered into a $500 million five-year revolving credit facility.
Although we have no current plans to request any advances under this credit facility, we may use
the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes or for future acquisitions or
expansion of our business.


We have not previously incurred substantial amounts of debt for borrowed money, and our incurrence
of this debt may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other
things:






     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive
pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations
to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow
available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and



     

     
    •
     
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our
business and our industry.





Our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our
ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness,
and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with
these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our long-term
non-convertible debt includes covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain
liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the
covenants under our long-term debt or our revolving credit facilities and do not obtain a waiver
from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be
declared immediately due and payable.


26




Table of Contents



In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and
liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other
negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility would
increase. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings could affect our ability to obtain
additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.


If actual product returns exceed returns reserves our financial results would be harmed.


We ship more desktop software products to our distributors and retailers than we expect them to
sell, in order to reduce the risk that distributors or retailers will run out of products. This is
particularly true for our Consumer Tax products, which have a short selling season and for which
returns occur primarily in our fiscal third and fourth quarters. Like many software companies that
sell their products through distributors and retailers, we have historically accepted significant
product returns. We establish reserves against revenue for product returns in our financial
statements based on estimated returns and we closely monitor product sales and inventory in the
retail channel in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, returns have not differed
significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual returns that significantly
exceed reserves, it would result in lower net revenue. For example, if we had increased our fiscal
2007 returns reserves by 1% of non-consignment sales to retailers for QuickBooks, TurboTax and
Quicken, our fiscal 2007 total net revenue would have been approximately $3.3 million lower. In
addition, our policy of recognizing revenue from distributors and retailers upon delivery of
product for non-consignment sales is predicated upon our ability to reasonably estimate returns. If
we do not continue to demonstrate our ability to estimate returns then our revenue recognition
policy for these types of sales may no longer be appropriate.


Acquisition-related costs and impairment charges can cause significant fluctuation in our net
income.


Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization and impairment of
purchased intangible assets, charges for in-process research and development, and impairment of
goodwill. Total acquisition-related costs in the categories identified above were $50.9 million in
fiscal 2007, $18.3 million in fiscal 2006 and $21.8 million in fiscal 2005. Although under current
accounting rules goodwill is no longer amortized, we may incur impairment charges related to the
goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We test the
impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of
impairment arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of
operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that could not have been reasonably foreseen in prior
periods. At July 31, 2007, we had $1.5 billion in goodwill and $292.9 million in net purchased
intangible assets on our balance sheet, both of which could be subject to impairment charges in the
future. New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of purchased assets, could have a
significant negative impact on our future operating results.


If we fail to operate our payroll business effectively our revenue and earnings will be harmed.



Our payroll business handles a significant amount of dollar and transaction volume. Due to the
size and volume of transactions that we handle, effective processing systems and controls are
essential to ensure that transactions are handled appropriately. Despite our efforts, it is
possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated. In addition to any direct
damages and fines that any such problems would create, which could be substantial, the loss of
customer confidence in our accuracy and controls would seriously harm our business. The systems
supporting our payroll business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are difficult
to scale. We must constantly continue to upgrade our systems and processes to ensure that we
process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner. These upgrades must also meet
the various regulatory requirements and deadlines associated with employer-related payroll
activities. Any failure of our systems or processes in critical switch-over times, such as in
January when many businesses elect to change payroll service providers, would be detrimental to our
business. If we failed to timely deliver any of our payroll products, it could cause our current
and prospective customers to choose a competitor’s product for that year’s payroll and not to
purchase Intuit products in the future. If these efforts are not successful our revenue growth and
profitability will decline.


27




Table of Contents



Interest income attributable to payroll customer deposits may fluctuate or be eliminated, causing
our revenue and earnings to decline.


We currently record revenue from interest earned on customer deposits that we hold pending payment
of funds to taxing authorities or to customers’ employees. If interest rates decline, or there are
regulatory changes that diminish the amount of time that we are required or permitted to hold such
funds, our interest revenue will decline.


We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel.


Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel,
including members of our executive team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions.
Experienced personnel in the software and services industries are in high demand and competition
for their talents is intense, especially in Silicon Valley and San Diego, California, where the
majority of our employees are located. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not
be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel which would cause our business
to suffer.


We are frequently a party to litigation that is costly to defend and consumes the time of our
management.


Due to our financial position and the large number of customers that we serve we are often forced
to defend litigation. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for information regarding specific pending
litigation. Defending litigation consumes the time of our management and is expensive for Intuit.
Even though we often seek insurance coverage for litigation defense costs, there is no assurance
that our defense costs, which can be substantial, will be covered in all cases. In addition, by
its nature, litigation is unpredictable and we may not prevail even in cases where we strongly
believe a plaintiff’s case has no valid claims. If we do not prevail in litigation we may be
required to pay substantial monetary damages or alter our business operations. Regardless of the
outcome, litigation is expensive and consumes the time of our management and may ultimately reduce
our income.


Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future financial results.


Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes
in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their
interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax
returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the
likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our
provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous
examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.


If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to detect fraud
or report our financial results accurately, which could harm our business and the trading price of
our common stock.


We periodically assess our system of internal controls, and the internal controls of service
providers upon which we rely, to review their effectiveness and identify potential areas of
improvement. In addition, from time to time we acquire businesses, many of which have limited
infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls,
implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective controls environment is expensive and
requires considerable management attention. Internal control systems are designed in part upon
assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
system are met. Because of the inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance
that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.
If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls or prevent fraud, we
could suffer losses, could be subject to costly litigation, investors could lose confidence in our
reported financial information and our brand and operating results could be harmed.


We and our independent registered public accounting firm must certify the adequacy of our internal
controls over financial reporting annually. Identification of material weaknesses in internal
controls over financial reporting could harm our business.


28




Table of Contents



Business interruptions could adversely affect our future operating results.


Several of our major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake, fire, power
shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, and other events beyond our control. The
majority of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, our principal
information technology systems, and other critical business operations are located near major
seismic faults. We do not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses. While we
maintain disaster recovery facilities for key data centers that support the information systems,
networks and databases that are necessary to operate our business, we do not have disaster recovery
facilities for all of our data centers. Our operating results and financial condition could be
materially harmed in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster.


29




Table of Contents






ITEM 1B