ITEM 1A



RISK FACTORS



Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors



This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements in this report,
other than statements that are purely historical, are forward-looking statements. Words such as
“expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “forecast,” “estimate,” “seek,” and similar
expressions also identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking statements
include, without limitation, the following:






     
    •
     
    our expectations and beliefs regarding future conduct and growth of the business;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding competition and our ability to compete effectively;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding the development of future products, services and technology
platforms and our research and development efforts;



     

     
    •
     
    our intention to create easy-to-use connected services that solve customer problems
while building durable competitive advantage;



     

     
    •
     
    the assumptions underlying our critical accounting policies and estimates, including our
estimates regarding product rebate and return reserves; stock volatility and other
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based compensation; and expected
future amortization of purchased intangible assets;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the investments that we hold are not other-than-temporarily impaired;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the reduction in liquidity of the municipal auction rate securities we
hold will not have a material impact on our overall ability to meet our liquidity needs;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our exposure to currency exchange fluctuation risk will not be
significant in the future;



     

     
    •
     
    our assessments and estimates that determine our effective tax rate;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our income tax valuation allowance is sufficient;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from
operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and other
liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that long-term trends toward the use of both desktop and online software will
provide future growth opportunities;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the continuing trend among individual taxpayers toward the use of
software to prepare their own income tax returns will continue to be important to the
growth of our Consumer Tax business;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding capital expenditures;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding the timing of our occupation of the new data center we are
building in Washington state;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our facilities are adequate for our near-term needs and that we will be
able to locate additional facilities as needed; and



     

     
    •
     
    our assessments and beliefs regarding the future outcome of pending legal proceedings
and the liability, if any, that Intuit may incur as a result of those proceedings.





We caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current
expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to
read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before
deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. These forward-looking
statements are based on information as of the filing date of this Annual Report, and we undertake
no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason.


Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors
that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
statements. These factors include the following:


We face intense competitive pressures in all of our businesses that may harm our operating results.



We face intense competition in all of our business units, and we expect competition to remain
intense in the future. The number, resources and sophistication of the companies with whom we
compete have increased as we continue to expand our product and service offerings. Our
competitors, whether new or well-established, may introduce new


16




Table of Contents





and improved products and services, bundle new offerings with market-leading products, reduce
prices, gain better access to distribution channels, advertise aggressively or beat us to market
with new products and services. We also face intensified competition from providers of free online
and desktop accounting, tax, banking and other financial services. In order to compete, we have
also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers
or effectively monetize all of these offerings. These actions of our competitors, if successful,
can diminish our revenue and profitability, capture market share, and harm our ability to acquire
and retain customers.


QuickBooks; Payroll and Payments. Losing existing or potential QuickBooks customers to competitors
causes us to lose potential revenue in the short-term and limits our opportunities to sell related
products and services, including payroll and payments offerings, in the future. Many competitors
provide accounting and business management products and services to small businesses. For example,
Microsoft currently offers a version of its small business accounting software for no additional
charge to users of its operating system, and offers, in partnership with third parties, several
other competitive products and services for small businesses. Although we have successfully
competed with Microsoft in the past, Microsoft’s small business offerings may have a significant
negative impact on our future revenue and profitability. As we continue to offer small business
services beyond financial management, we are likely to come into competition with several other
well-established companies that may have greater resources, market share and other advantages. In
addition, as online services and business models grow in popularity, new competitors may face lower
barriers to entry and can offer online services that compete directly with our desktop and online
offerings.


We may also experience pricing pressure for our small business payroll offerings due to the larger
size and economies of scale of certain competitors in that business.


Consumer Tax. Our consumer tax business faces significant competition from both the public and
private sector. In the public sector we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities
developing or contracting to provide software or other systems to facilitate tax return preparation
and electronic filing at no charge to taxpayers.






     
    •
     
    Government Encroachment. Although the Free File Alliance has kept the federal
government from being a direct competitor to Intuit’s tax offerings, it has fostered
additional online competition and could cause us to lose significant revenue opportunities.
Companies have used the Free File Alliance and its position on the Internal Revenue
Service Web site as a marketing tool to grow brand awareness and attract customers to other
paid services, which has intensified competition. In addition, taxpayers who formerly have
paid for Intuit’s products may elect to use Intuit’s or our competitors’ free federal
service instead. The current agreement with the Free File Alliance is scheduled to expire
in October 2009. However, the IRS often seeks to negotiate changes to the agreement in the
fall prior to each new tax filing season based on the prior tax season’s experience with
the Free File program. If the IRS chose not to renew this agreement or terminated the
agreement and elected to provide government software and electronic filing services to
taxpayers at no charge, or if the federal government significantly altered the Free File
Alliance or required the provision of government tax filing services directly to taxpayers,
our revenue and profits could suffer. See the discussion on the Free File Alliance in Item
1, “Business – Competition.”



     

     
     
     
    In 2008, approximately 20 state governments had agreements with the private sector based on
the federal Free File Alliance agreement and had agreed not to provide direct government tax
preparation services. However, approximately 20 other states, including California, directly
offered their own online tax preparation and filing services to taxpayers. California has
tested a program under which a state-operated system automatically prepared and filed state
income tax returns for approximately 11,000 taxpayers for tax year 2007 with no individual
transaction charge to those taxpayers. These or similar programs could be introduced or
expanded in the future, which could cause us to lose customers and revenue. We anticipate
that governmental encroachment will present a continued competitive threat to our business
for the foreseeable future.



     

     
    •
     
    Private Sector Competition. In the private sector we face intense competition primarily
from H&R Block, which offers tax preparation services and software, and from online
offerings from 2nd Story Software, which subject us to significant price pressure. In
addition, the availability of free online tax preparation services, whether through the
Free File Alliance or otherwise, may reduce demand for our paid offerings which would harm
our business and results of operations. Pricing pressure or other factors may cause us to
bundle products and services for which we have previously charged separate fees, which
could lead to a loss of market share or a decrease or deferral of revenue.





17




Table of Contents



Accounting Professionals. Our ProSeries professional tax offerings face pricing pressure from
competitors who may offer deep product discounts or lower prices. Our Lacerte professional tax
offerings face competition from competitively-priced tax and accounting solutions that include
integration with non-tax functionality. We also face growing competition from online offerings,
which may be marketed more effectively or have lower pricing than our offerings for accounting
professionals.


Financial Institutions. We compete with several companies that provide online banking services to
financial institutions. We face intense competition from two main sources: other companies that
primarily offer outsourced online banking services, and vendors of core processing services to
financial institutions. Also, vendors that primarily target the largest financial institutions
occasionally compete in our target market. In some instances, we compete with companies, including
core processing vendors, with whom we also have significant business relationships. Some of our
current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and may be in a better position
to produce and market their services due to their greater technical, marketing and other resources,
as well as their greater name recognition and larger installed bases of customers. Many of our
competitors, including the core processors, may have well-established relationships with our
current and potential financial institution customers, which may harm our ability to acquire and
retain those customers.


As we negotiate service contract renewals with current customers, competitive pressures may require
us to make concessions on pricing and other material terms to induce the customer to remain with
us. If we are unable to compete effectively with other online banking service providers, our
business results may suffer.


Future revenue growth for our core products depends upon our successful introduction of new and
enhanced products and services.


A number of our businesses derive a significant amount of their revenue through one-time upfront
license fees and rely on customer upgrades and service offerings to generate a significant portion
of their revenues. In addition, our consumer tax business depends significantly on revenue from
customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing software and services.
As our existing products mature, encouraging customers to purchase product upgrades becomes more
challenging unless new product releases provide features and functionality that have meaningful
incremental value. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the value of upgraded
products to our customers, our upgrade and service revenues will be harmed. Similarly, our
business will be harmed if we are not successful in our efforts to develop and introduce new
products and services to retain our existing customers, expand our customer base and increase
revenues per customer.


As online services and business models grow in popularity and usage, and as we continue to grow our
online offerings, we must continue to innovate and develop features that are demanded by our
existing and potential online customers, which may require expertise with new technologies and
platforms. If we are unable to continue developing, marketing and commercializing valuable online
services, we may be unable to attract and retain customers, and our revenues could suffer.


In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on products
or services that do not ultimately succeed in their markets. We have encountered difficulty in
launching new products and services in the past. For example, we discontinued our Easy Estimator
for contractors offering at the end of fiscal 2007. If we misjudge customer needs, our new
products and services will not succeed and our revenues and earnings will be harmed. As we expand
our offerings to new customer categories we run the risk of customers shifting from our higher
priced and higher margin products to our lower priced or free offerings. For instance, our
QuickBooks Simple Start free edition may attract users that would otherwise have purchased our
higher priced, more full featured offerings.


Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could compromise
the availability and security of our online products and services, which could damage our
reputation and harm our operating results.


As we continue to grow our online services, including TurboTax Online, consumer and professional
electronic tax filing services, QuickBooks Online, Web site design and hosting services for small
businesses, online payroll and banking services, Quicken Online and online commerce Web sites, we
become more dependent on the continuing


18




Table of Contents





operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our
external service providers. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions
in our service, which could reduce our revenues and profits, cause us to lose customers and damage
our brand. Although we have implemented practices designed to maintain the availability of our
online products and services and mitigate the harm of any unplanned interruptions, we do not have
complete redundancy for all of our systems, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for
all eventualities. Despite our efforts to maintain continuous and reliable server operations, we
occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. Due to our evolving business
needs and real estate planning, we are building a new data center in Washington state to support
our longer term hosting requirements. We expect to begin occupying this data center in the second
half of fiscal 2009. If we do not execute this transition to the new data center in an effective
manner, we could experience unplanned service disruptions or unforeseen increases in cost which
could harm our operating results and our business. We do not maintain real-time back-up of all our
data, and in the event of significant system disruption, particularly during peak tax filing
season, we could experience loss of data or processing capabilities, which could cause us to lose
customers and could materially harm our reputation and our operating results.


Our data centers and our information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage
or interruption from natural disasters, malicious attacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications
failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our
systems. If hackers were able to circumvent our security measures, we could lose proprietary
information or personal information or experience significant disruptions in the delivery of our
products and services. If our systems become unavailable or suffer a security breach, we may
expend significant resources to address these problems, including notification under data privacy
regulations, and our reputation and operating results could suffer.


We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and
service providers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests and host
certain online activities. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems could
prevent us or our service providers from accepting and fulfilling customer orders or cause company
and customer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and expand
our network security and other information systems could be costly, and problems with the design or
implementation of system enhancements could harm our business and our results of operations.


If we fail to maintain reliable and responsive service levels for our electronic tax offerings, or
if the IRS or other governmental agencies experience difficulties in receiving customer
submissions, we could lose customers and our revenue and earnings could decrease.


Our online tax preparation and filing services are an important and growing part of our tax
businesses and must effectively handle extremely heavy customer demand during the peak tax season
from January to April. We face significant risks and challenges in maintaining these services and
maintaining adequate service levels, particularly during peak volume service times. Similarly,
governmental entities receiving electronic tax filings must also handle large volumes of data and
may experience difficulties with their systems which could prevent the receipt of electronic
filings. If customers are unable to file their returns electronically they may elect to make paper
filings. This would result in reduced electronic tax return preparation and filing revenues and
would harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. For example, on April 17,
2007 our customers experienced significant delays in electronically filing their income tax returns
due to an intermittent database problem in our e-filing system. We refunded approximately $9
million in credit card charges for our consumer electronic filing and online tax preparation
services that were made during the time that the delays occurred. These refunds did not have a
significant impact on our fiscal 2007 financial condition or results of operations. However, we may
experience problems with our online systems and services in the future, and any prolonged
interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic filing service at any time during the tax
season would result in lost customers, additional refunds of customer charges, negative publicity
and increased operating costs, any of which could significantly harm our business, financial
condition and results of operations.


The nature of our products necessitates timely product launches and if we experience significant
product quality problems or delays, it will harm our revenue, earnings and reputation.


All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that
increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation
software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate
unpredictable tax law and tax form changes each year and


19




Table of Contents





because our customers expect high levels of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to
prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing deadline. Due to the complexity of our products and
the condensed development cycles under which we operate, our products sometimes contain “bugs” that
can unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the software. When we encounter problems we may
be required to modify our code, distribute patches to customers who have already purchased the
product and recall or repackage existing product inventory in our distribution channels. If we
encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle
it may cause us to delay our product launch date. Any major defects or launch delays could lead to
loss of customers and revenue, negative publicity, customer and employee dissatisfaction, reduced
retailer shelf space and promotions, and increased operating expenses, such as inventory
replacement costs, legal fees or payments resulting from our commitment to reimburse penalties and
interest paid by customers due solely to calculation errors in our consumer tax preparation
products.


Our collection, use and retention of personal customer information present business operations and
security risks, require us to incur expenses, and could harm our business.


A number of our businesses collect, use and retain large amounts of personal customer information,
including credit card numbers, tax return information, bank account numbers and passwords, personal
and business financial data, social security numbers and other payroll information. We may also
develop new business models that use personal information, or data derived from personal
information, in innovative and novel ways. In addition, we collect and maintain personal
information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal customer
and employee information is held and some transactions are executed by third parties. In addition,
as many of our products and services are Web based, the amount of data we store for our users on
our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. We and our vendors use
commercially available security technologies to protect transactions and personal information. We
use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information. However, a
third party may be able to circumvent these security and business measures, and errors in the
storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of customer or
employee privacy or theft of assets, which may require notification under applicable data privacy
regulations. We employ contractors, temporary and seasonal employees who may have access to the
personal information of customers and employees or who may execute transactions in the normal
course of their duties. While we conduct necessary and appropriate background checks of these
individuals and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these
individuals could circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach. The ability to
execute transactions and the possession and use of personal information in conducting our business
subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification to customers or
employees of a security breach, restrict our use of personal information and hinder our ability to
acquire new customers or market to existing customers. We have incurred – and will continue to
incur – significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols
imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations.


In the past we have experienced lawsuits and negative publicity relating to privacy issues and we
could face similar suits in the future. A major breach of our security measures or those of third
parties that execute transactions or hold and manage personal information could have serious
negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced
customer demand for our services, harm to our reputation and brands, further regulation and
oversight by federal or state agencies, and loss of our ability to provide financial transaction
services or accept and process customer credit card orders or tax returns. From time to time, we
detect, or receive notices from customers or public or private agencies that they have detected,
vulnerabilities in our software or in third-party software components that are distributed with our
products. The existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a security breach, can
harm customer confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we may not be able to
discover or remediate such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited. Although we have
sophisticated network and application security, internal control measures, and physical security
procedures to safeguard our systems, there can be no assurance that a security breach, loss or
theft of personal information will not occur, which could harm our business, customer reputation
and results of operations. If our business expands to new industry segments that are regulated for
privacy and security, or to countries outside the U.S. that have more strict data protection laws,
our compliance requirements and costs will increase.


The growth of our business depends on our ability to adapt to rapid technological change.



The software industry in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving
industry standards and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We must continually
invest in our software


20




Table of Contents





architecture and developer tools in order to enhance our current products and develop new products
to meet changing customer needs and to attract and retain talented software developers. We are
currently in the process of updating the software platforms for a number of our product lines,
including our QuickBooks and TurboTax products and services. Completing these upgrades and
adapting to other technological developments and new platforms may require considerable time and
expense. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in upgrading our software
architecture, our ability to develop new products and enhancements to our current products would
suffer.


Our reliance on a limited number of manufacturing and distribution suppliers could harm our
business.


We have chosen to outsource the large majority of the manufacturing and distribution for many of
our desktop software products to a single third party provider and we use a single vendor to
produce and distribute our check and business forms supplies products. Although our reliance on
single suppliers provides us with efficiencies and enhanced bargaining power, poor performance by
or lack of effective communication with these suppliers can significantly harm our business. This
risk is amplified by the fact that we carry very little inventory and rely on just-in-time
manufacturing processes. In particular, the loss of our manufacturing partner for retail would be
disruptive to our business and could cause delay in a product launch. We seek to mitigate this
risk by managing our second tier vendors and maintaining contingency plans. If we experience
delays during a peak demand period or significant quality issues our business could be
significantly harmed.


As our product and service offerings become more complex our revenue streams may become less
predictable.


Our expanding range of products and services generates more varied revenue streams than our
traditional desktop software businesses. The accounting policies that apply to these revenue
streams are more complex than those that apply to our traditional products and services. We expect
this trend to continue as we expand our offerings. For example, as we begin to offer additional
features and options as part of multiple-element revenue arrangements, we could be required to
defer a higher percentage of our product revenue at the time of sale than we do for traditional
products. This would decrease recognized revenue at the time products are shipped, but result in
increased recognized revenue in fiscal periods after shipment. In addition, as we offer more
services on a subscription basis, including certain online services for small businesses, we
recognize revenue from those services over the periods in which they are delivered, rather than
recognizing one-time license fees. This could result in significant shifts of revenue from quarter
to quarter, or from one fiscal year to the next, and could make our revenues less predictable.


Our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and our quarterly results fluctuate significantly.



Several of our businesses are highly seasonal causing significant quarterly fluctuations in our
financial results. Revenue and operating results are usually strongest during the second and third
fiscal quarters ending January 31 and April 30 due to our tax businesses contributing most of their
revenue during those quarters and the timing of the release of our small business software products
and upgrades. We experience lower revenues, and significant operating losses, in the first and
fourth quarters ending October 31 and July 31. For example, in the second and third quarters of
fiscal 2007 and 2008 we had total net revenue of between $751 million and $1.3 billion while in the
first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007 and 2008 we had total net revenue of between $351 million
and $478 million. Our financial results can also fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to
year due to a variety of factors, including changes in product sales mix that affect average
selling prices; product release dates; the timing of our discontinuance of support for older
product offerings; our methods for distributing our products, including the shift to a consignment
model for some of our desktop products sold through retail distribution channels; changes to our
bundling strategy, including the inclusion of upgrades with certain offerings, changes to how we
communicate the availability of new functionality in the future, and the timing of our delivery of
federal and state tax forms (any of which can impact the pattern of revenue recognition); and the
timing of acquisitions, divestitures, and goodwill and purchased intangible asset impairment
charges.


We face a number of risks in our payment processing business that could result in a reduction in
our revenue and earnings.


Our payment processing service business is subject to several specific risks, including the
following:






     
    •
     
    if merchants for whom we process payment transactions are unable to pay refunds due to
their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant transactions, we may be
required to pay those amounts




21




Table of Contents






     
     
     
    and our payments may exceed the amount of the customer reserves we have established to make
such payments;


 



     
    •
     
    if banks who receive our automated clearing house (ACH) check settlement requests refuse
to honor those requests due to inadequate account balances or account closures, we may be
required to pay those amounts and our payments may exceed the amount of the check return
reserves we have established to make such payments;



     

     
    •
     
    we rely on sponsor banks, payment processors and other service providers to process
payment transactions and to access the ACH to submit both credit card and check
settlements. If these service providers place restrictions on our processing volume or
terminate their relationships with us (including due to failures of financial
institutions) and we are unable to secure or successfully migrate our business to other
service providers, our ability to process payment transactions and receive the related
revenue would be adversely affected;



     

     
    •
     
    if we or our sponsor banks fail to adhere to the data security and other standards of
the payment card associations, we may lose our ability to provide payment processing
services for Visa, MasterCard and other payment cards;



     

     
    •
     
    we depend on independent sales organizations, some of which do not serve us exclusively,
as well as Superior Bankcard Services, a joint venture in which we participate, to acquire
and retain merchant accounts;



     

     
    •
     
    our profit margins will be reduced if for competitive reasons we cannot increase our
fees at times when the card associations increase the fees that we pay to process merchant
transactions through their systems;



     

     
    •
     
    government regulation or policy could restrict the types of merchants for which we can
process payments or could impose other requirements on the way we conduct our business,
which could result in lower revenue and higher compliance costs;



     

     
    •
     
    unauthorized disclosure of merchant and cardholder data, whether through breach of our
computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation as well
as notification requirements under applicable regulations; and



     

     
    •
     
    we may encounter difficulties scaling our business systems to support our expected
growth.





Should any of these risks be realized our business and financial results would suffer.


We face a number of risks associated with our financial institutions business which could harm our
revenue and results of operations.


In February 2007 we acquired Digital Insight, a provider of outsourced online banking services to
financial institutions. This financial institutions business is subject to several risks,
including the following:






     
    •
     
    consolidation among core processors or between core processors and online banking and
bill-pay providers may create larger or vertically-integrated competitors that may have
stronger relationships with our current or potential financial institutions clients, which
could harm our reseller and revenue-sharing agreements with core processors or reduce the
likelihood of extending our agreements at expiration;



     

     
    •
     
    if any of our products fail to be supported by financial institutions’ core processing
vendors, we would have to redesign our products to suit these financial institutions, and
we cannot assure that any redesign could be accomplished in a cost-effective or timely
manner, and we could experience higher implementation costs or the loss of current and
potential customers;



     

     
    •
     
    the financial institutions business experiences lengthy sales cycles, which could cause
us to expend substantial employee and management resources without making a sale or could
cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated levels for a particular quarter;



     

     
    •
     
    continued consolidation of the banking and financial services industry, including due to
failures of financial institutions, could result in a smaller market for our products and
services and may cause us to lose relationships with key customers;



     

     
    •
     
    our financial institution clients may not promote our services to their end user
customers, and we may not be able to persuade potential customers to adopt our solutions in
place of financial institutions’ own proprietary solutions or competitive offerings; and



     

     
    •
     
    macro-economic factors affecting banks, credit unions, mortgage lenders and other
financial institutions may lead to cost-cutting efforts by our clients, which could cause
us to lose current or potential customers or achieve less revenue per customer.





22




Table of Contents



Because we depend on a small number of larger retailers and distributors, changes in these
relationships could harm our results of operations.


We sell most of our desktop software products through our retail distribution channel and a
relatively small number of larger retailers and distributors generate a significant portion of our
sales volume. Our principal retailers have significant bargaining leverage due to their size and
available resources. Historically, some retailers have elected to offer our tax products
exclusively, but we cannot guarantee that these exclusive relationships will continue in the
future. Any change in principal business terms, loss of exclusivity, major disruption or
termination of a relationship with these resellers could result in a potentially significant
decline in our revenues and earnings. The sourcing decisions, product display locations and
promotional activities that retailers undertake can greatly impact the sales of our products.
Changes in our pricing, product offerings or features, or concerns by retailers about our direct
sales efforts, could cause retailers or distributors to reduce their efforts to promote our
products, eliminate any exclusive placements, or stop selling our products altogether. If any of
our retailers or distributors experience financial difficulties we may be unable to collect amounts
that we are owed. At January 31, 2008, in the midst of the 2007 consumer tax season, amounts due
from our 10 largest retailers and distributors represented approximately 49% of total gross
accounts receivable.


Increased government regulation of our businesses could harm our operating results.


The tax preparation industry has received increased attention from legislative and regulatory
bodies in recent years, both because of the continuing focus on free tax preparation and because of
the nature of certain services used to process and transfer refunds to taxpayers. New legislation,
regulation or public policy considerations could result in greater oversight of the tax preparation
industry, restrict the types of products and services that we can offer, or otherwise cause us to
change the way we operate our tax businesses or offer our tax products and services. This in turn
could increase our cost of doing business and limit our revenue opportunities.


We are also required to comply with a variety of state revenue agency standards in order to
successfully operate our tax preparation and electronic filing services. Changes in state-imposed
requirements by one or more of the states, including the required use of specific technologies or
technology standards, could significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our
customers and could prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely
manner.


Our financial institutions business provides services to banks, credit unions and other
institutions that are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. As a result,
our financial institution customers require that our products and services comply with the
regulations applicable to these customers. If we are unable to comply with these regulations, we
could incur significant costs and penalties, face litigation or governmental proceedings, and lose
our ability to sell to these customers. Any of these adverse events could harm our results of
operations and our reputation.


In addition, as we seek to grow our business, we may expand into more highly-regulated businesses
or countries, which will require increased investment in compliance and auditing functions or new
technologies in order to meet regulatory standards. Government authorities could adopt other laws,
rules or regulations that place new burdens or restrictions on our business or determine that our
operations are directly subject to existing rules or regulations, such as requirements related to
data collection, use, transmission, retention and processing, which could make our business more
costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and could require us to modify our current or
future products or services, which could harm our operating results.


Expansion of our operations in international markets exposes us to operational and compliance
risks.


As we continue to grow our business internationally we face increased risk which could harm our
business operating results and financial condition. We have limited experience with operations
outside the U.S. and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally
requires management attention and resources and is subject to a number of risks, including
difficulties in managing varying foreign operations, political or social unrest or economic
instability, foreign currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations, higher costs associated
with doing business internationally and potentially adverse tax consequences. Also, compliance
with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations
increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our
employees to fines and penalties.


23




Table of Contents



If we do not respond promptly and effectively to customer service and technical support inquiries
we will lose customers and our revenue and earnings will decline.


The effectiveness of our customer service and technical support operations are critical to customer
satisfaction and our financial success. If we do not respond effectively to service and technical
support requests we will lose customers and miss revenue opportunities, such as paid service,
product renewals and new product sales. We occasionally experience customer service and technical
support problems, including longer than expected waiting times for customers when our staffing and
systems are inadequate to handle a higher-than-anticipated volume of requests. Training and
retaining qualified customer service and technical support personnel is particularly challenging
due to the expansion of our product offerings and the seasonality of our tax business. For
example, although many of our consumer tax service representatives return each tax season, it is
challenging to expand the number of representatives from about 110 during off-season months to
about 1,100 at the peak of the season. If we do not adequately train our support representatives
our customers will not receive an appropriate level of support, we will lose customers and our
financial results will suffer.


If we encounter problems with our third-party customer service and technical support providers our
business and operating results will be harmed.


We outsource a substantial portion of our customer service and technical support activities to
domestic and international third-party service providers, including service providers in India, and
we expect to continue to rely heavily on third parties in the future. This strategy provides us
with lower operating costs and greater flexibility, but also presents risks to our business,
including the following:






     
    •
     
    In recent years India has experienced political instability and changing policies that
may impact our operations. In addition, for a number of years India and Pakistan have been
in conflict and an active state of war between the two countries could disrupt our
services.



     

     
    •
     
    Customers may react negatively to providing information to and receiving support from
overseas organizations.



     

     
    •
     
    We may not be able to affect the quality of support as directly as we are able to in our
company-run call centers.



     

     
    •
     
    International outsourcing has received considerable negative attention in the media,
which could harm our reputation, and the U.S. government may adopt legislation that would
affect how we operate. For example, the Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service
recently released new regulations restricting the flow of personal information to overseas
providers.



     

     
    •
     
    We rely on a global communications infrastructure that may be interrupted in a number of
ways. For example, in fiscal 2007 an earthquake in Taiwan caused temporary disruption to
overseas infrastructure.





We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud and with credit card
processing.


Many of our customers use credit cards or automated payment systems to pay for our products and
services. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of orders placed
with fraudulent credit card or other payment data. For example, under current credit card
practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions if we do not obtain a
cardholder’s signature, a frequent practice in Internet sales. We employ technology solutions to
help us detect fraudulent transactions. However, the failure to detect or control payment fraud
could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.


We are subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, as in
effect from time to time. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements may subject us to
fines and higher transaction fees or cause us to lose our ability to accept credit card payments
from our customers, resulting in harm to our business and results of operations.


If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may exploit our
innovations, which could weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue and earnings.


Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade
secret, trademark, patent, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and
protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into
non-disclosure agreements with our


24




Table of Contents





employees, contractors, distributors and corporate partners and into license agreements with
respect to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. The creation and
protection of our proprietary rights are expensive and may require us to engage in costly and
distracting litigation. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain
and use our products or technology without authorization. Because we outsource significant aspects
of our product development, manufacturing and distribution we are at risk that confidential
portions of our intellectual property could become public by lapses in security by our contractors.
We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary
rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions
that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. It is also possible that
other companies could successfully challenge the validity or scope of our patents and that our
patent portfolio, which is relatively small, may not provide us with adequate protection.
Ultimately, our attempts to secure legal protection for our proprietary rights may not be adequate
and our competitors could independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our products, or
design around patents and other intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property
protection proves inadequate we could lose our competitive advantage and our financial results will
suffer.


Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur
significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products.


From time to time, we have received claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights
of others. As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of
these products further overlap, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we
may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, including patent, copyright, and trademark
infringement claims. We have received allegations of patent infringement claims in the past and
may receive more claims in the future based on allegations that our products infringe upon patents
held by third parties. Some of these claims are the subject of pending litigation against us and
against some of our OEM customers. These claims may involve patent holding companies or other
adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenues of their own, and against whom our own
patents may provide little or no deterrence. The ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain
and, regardless of outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, could be time consuming to
defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time and attention from our business,
require us to stop selling, to delay shipping or to redesign our products, or require us to pay
monetary damages for royalty or licensing arrangements, or to satisfy indemnification obligations
that we have with some of our customers. Our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights,
or litigation arising out of intellectual property claims could adversely affect our business.


We expect copying and misuse of our intellectual property to be a persistent problem causing lost
revenue and increased expenses.


Our intellectual property rights are among our most valuable assets. Policing unauthorized use and
copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming. Current U.S. laws that
prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of
many other countries provide very little protection. We may not be able to prevent
misappropriation of our technology. For example, we frequently encounter unauthorized copies of
our software being sold through online auction sites and other online marketplaces. In addition,
efforts to protect our intellectual property may be misunderstood and perceived negatively by our
customers. Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to
lessen the impact of piracy, and we continue to increase our civil and criminal enforcement
efforts, we expect piracy to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased
expenses.


Although we are unable to quantify the extent of piracy of our software products, software piracy
may depress our net revenues. We engage in efforts to educate consumers on the benefits of
licensing genuine products and to educate lawmakers on the advantages of a business climate where
intellectual property rights are protected, and we cooperate with the Software & Information
Industry Association in their efforts to combat piracy. However, these efforts may not fully combat
the effect of piracy of our products.


We do not own all of the software, other technologies and content used in our products and
services.


Many of our products include intellectual property owned by third parties. We believe we have all
of the necessary licenses from third parties to use and distribute third party technology and
content that we do not own that is used in our current products and services. From time to time we
may be required to renegotiate with these third parties – or


25




Table of Contents





negotiate with new third parties – to include their technology or content in our existing products,
in new versions of our existing products or in wholly new products. We may not be able to
negotiate or renegotiate licenses on reasonable terms, or at all. These third parties may from
time to time receive claims that they have infringed the intellectual property rights of others,
including patent and copyright infringement claims, which may affect our ability to continue
licensing their software. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or continue to
use third-party technology or content in our products and services, we may not be able to sell the
affected products, which would in turn harm our revenue and operating results.


Certain of our offerings include third-party software that is licensed under so-called “open
source” licenses, some of which may include a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we
make available, or grant licenses to, any modifications or derivative works we create based upon
the open source software. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to
mitigate these risks, we cannot be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval
prior to use in our products. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be
eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, harm our business.


Our acquisition and divestiture activities could disrupt our ongoing business, may involve
increased expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions.


We have acquired and may continue to acquire companies, products and technologies that complement
our strategic direction. For example, in February 2007 we acquired Digital Insight for total
consideration of approximately $1.34 billion including the value of assumed vested options.
Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:






     
    •
     
    inability to successfully integrate the acquired technology and operations into our
business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures;



     

     
    •
     
    inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition;



     

     
    •
     
    distraction of management’s attention away from normal business operations;



     

     
    •
     
    challenges retaining the key employees, customers, resellers and other business partners
of the acquired operation;



     

     
    •
     
    lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies or the initial dependence on
unfamiliar supply or distribution partners;



     

     
    •
     
    insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed;



     

     
    •
     
    expenses associated with the acquisition; and



     

     
    •
     
    unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including product or
service quality issues, intellectual property issues and legal contingencies.





Acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky. We can not be certain that our previous,
pending or future transactions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect the
conduct, operating results or financial condition of our business. Many transactions are subject
to closing conditions, which may not be satisfied, and transactions may not be successfully
completed even after their public announcement. In addition, integrating acquired businesses has
been and will continue to be complex, time consuming, and expensive, and can impact the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have generally paid cash for
our recent acquisitions. These transactions may involve further use of our cash resources, the
issuance of equity or debt securities, the incurrence of other forms of debt, the amortization of
expenses related to intangible assets, or potential future impairment charges related to goodwill
that we record on our balance sheet, which will be subject to annual testing in the future, any of
which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we allocated a
portion of the purchase price for Digital Insight to goodwill, which could be subject to potential
future impairment charges, and we also allocated a portion of the purchase price to identified
intangible assets, which we expect to amortize over a period of three to five years. Further, we
issued $1 billion in senior unsecured notes to fund a portion of the purchase price of Digital
Insight and to fund our operations. The use of debt to fund acquisitions or for other purposes
significantly increases our interest expense and leverage. If we issue equity securities as
consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders’ percentage ownership and earnings per share
may be diluted.


26




Table of Contents



We have issued $1 billion in a debt offering and may incur other debt in the future, which could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.


In fiscal 2007 we issued $1 billion in senior unsecured notes. We have also entered into a $500
million five-year revolving credit facility. Although we have no current plans to request any
advances under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general
corporate purposes or for future acquisitions or expansion of our business.


This debt may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other
things:






     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures
and to adverse economic and industry conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations to
service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available
for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and



     

     
    •
     
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business
and our industry.





Our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our
ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness,
and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with
these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our long-term
non-convertible debt includes covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain
liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the
covenants under our long-term debt or our revolving credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from
the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness could be
declared immediately due and payable.


In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and
liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other
negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility would
increase. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings could affect our ability to obtain
additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.


We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services.


The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or
disseminated through their services is often unsettled. Claims could be made against online
services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy,
negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content
of the materials disseminated through their services. Certain of our services feature a Live
Community, which includes input from users in response to questions from other users. Although all
such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury could be
made against us for content posted in the Live Community. Any costs incurred as a result of this
potential liability could harm our business.


If actual product returns exceed returns reserves our financial results would be harmed.


We ship more desktop software products to our distributors and retailers than we expect them to
sell, in order to reduce the risk that distributors or retailers will run out of products. This is
particularly true for our Consumer Tax products, which have a short selling season and for which
returns occur primarily in our fiscal third and fourth quarters. Like many software companies that
sell their products through distributors and retailers, we have historically accepted significant
product returns. We establish reserves against revenue for product returns in our financial
statements based on estimated returns and we closely monitor product sales and inventory in the
retail channel in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, returns have not differed
significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual returns that significantly
exceed reserves, it would result in lower net revenue. For example, if we had increased our fiscal
2008 returns reserves by 1% of non-consignment sales to retailers for QuickBooks, TurboTax and
Quicken, our total net revenue for fiscal 2008 would have been approximately $3.0 million lower.
In addition, our policy of recognizing revenue from distributors and retailers upon delivery of
product for non-consignment sales is predicated upon our ability to reasonably estimate returns. If
we do not continue to demonstrate our ability to estimate returns then our revenue recognition
policy for these types of sales may no longer be appropriate.



27






Table of Contents



Acquisition-related costs and impairment charges can cause
significant fluctuation in our net
income.


Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including
amortization and impairment of
purchased intangible assets, charges for in-process research and development, and impairment of
goodwill. Total acquisition-related costs in the categories identified above were approximately
$92 million in fiscal 2008, $51 million in fiscal 2007 and $18 million in fiscal 2006. Although
under current accounting rules goodwill is no longer amortized, we may incur impairment charges
related to the goodwill already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We
test the impairment of goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if
indicators of impairment arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our
statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that could not have been reasonably foreseen
in prior periods. At July 31, 2008, we had $1.7 billion in goodwill and $273 million in net
purchased intangible assets on our balance sheet, both of which could be subject to impairment
charges in the future. New acquisitions, and any impairment of the value of purchased assets,
could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results.


Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to
risks that may cause losses and affect
the liquidity of these investments.


At July 31, 2008, we held approximately $285 million in
municipal auction rate securities that were
valued at par and classified as long-term assets. Due to a decrease in liquidity in the global
credit markets, in February 2008 auctions began failing for the municipal auction rate securities
we held. Regularly scheduled auctions for these securities have generally continued to fail since
that time. We will not be able to liquidate these investments and realize their full carrying value
unless successful auctions occur, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the issuer calls
the security, the issuer repays principal over time from cash flows prior to final maturity, or the
security matures according to contractual terms ranging from one to 39 years. We believe
the fair values of the municipal auction rate securities we hold
are substantially equivalent to their par values.
However, if the issuers of these securities are unable to call the securities or successfully close
future auctions and their credit ratings are lowered, we may be required to record future
impairment charges related to these investments, which would harm our results of operations. If we
are unable to find alternate means to liquidate these investments, we may not realize the value of
the investments until the final maturity of the underlying securities.


If we fail to operate our payroll business effectively our
revenue and earnings will be harmed.



Our payroll business handles a significant amount of dollar and
transaction volume. Due to the
size and volume of transactions that we handle, effective processing systems and controls are
essential to ensure that transactions are handled appropriately. Despite our efforts, it is
possible that we may make errors or that funds may be misappropriated. In addition to any direct
damages and fines that any such problems would create, which could be substantial, the loss of
customer confidence in our accuracy and controls would seriously harm our business. The systems
supporting our payroll business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are difficult
to scale. We must constantly continue to upgrade our systems and processes to ensure that we
process customer data in an accurate, reliable and timely manner. These upgrades must also meet
the various regulatory requirements and deadlines associated with employer-related payroll
activities. Any failure of our systems or processes in critical switch-over times, such as in
January when many businesses elect to change payroll service providers, would be detrimental to our
business. If we failed to timely deliver any of our payroll products, it could cause our current
and prospective customers to choose a competitor’s product for that year’s payroll and not to
purchase Intuit products in the future. If these efforts are not successful our revenue growth and
profitability will decline.


Interest income attributable to payroll customer deposits
may fluctuate or be eliminated, causing
our revenue and earnings to decline.


We currently record revenue from interest earned on customer
deposits that we hold pending payment
of funds to taxing authorities or to customers’ employees. If interest rates decline, or there are
regulatory changes that diminish the amount of time that we are required or permitted to hold such
funds, our interest revenue will decline.


We may be unable to attract and retain key
personnel.



Much of our future success depends on the continued service and
availability of skilled personnel,
including members of our executive team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions.
Experienced personnel in the


28




Table of Contents





software and services industries are in high demand and
competition for their talents is intense,
especially in the San Francisco Bay Area and San Diego, California, where the majority of our
employees are located. Although we strive to be an employer of choice, we may not be able to
continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel which would cause our business to suffer.


We are frequently a party to litigation that is costly to
defend and consumes the time of our
management.


Due to our financial position and the large number of customers
that we serve we are often forced
to defend litigation. Defending litigation consumes the time of our management and is expensive
for Intuit. Even though we often seek insurance coverage for litigation defense costs, there is no
assurance that our defense costs, which can be substantial, will be covered in all cases. In
addition, by its nature, litigation is unpredictable and we may not prevail even in cases where we
strongly believe a plaintiff’s case has no valid claims. If we do not prevail in litigation we may
be required to pay substantial monetary damages or alter our business operations. Regardless of
the outcome, litigation is expensive and consumes the time of our management and may ultimately
reduce our income.


Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our
future financial results.



Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably
affected by unanticipated changes
in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their
interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax
returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the
likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our
provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous
examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.


If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal
controls, we may not be able to detect fraud
or report our financial results accurately, which could harm our business and the trading price of
our common stock.


We periodically assess our system of internal controls, and the
internal controls of service
providers upon which we rely, to review their effectiveness and identify potential areas of
improvement. In addition, from time to time we acquire businesses, many of which have limited
infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls,
implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective controls environment is expensive and
requires considerable management attention. Internal control systems are designed in part upon
assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
system are met. Because of the inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance
that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.
If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls or prevent fraud, we
could suffer losses, could be subject to costly litigation, investors could lose confidence in our
reported financial information and our brand and operating results could be harmed.


We and our independent registered public accounting firm must
certify the effectiveness of our
internal controls over financial reporting annually. Identification of material weaknesses in
internal controls over financial reporting could harm our business.


General economic conditions may affect our revenue and harm
our business.



Economic growth in the U.S. continued to slow in the last quarter
of fiscal year 2008. If economic
growth in the U.S. continues to slow, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases.
This could result in reductions in sales of our products, slower adoption of new technologies and
upgrades to existing technologies and increased price competition. Weakness in the end-user market
could negatively affect the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could, in turn, delay
paying their obligations to us, which could increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in
our recognition of revenue or future sales to these customers. If economic or other factors cause
financial institutions to fail, we could lose current or potential customers and our revenues could
suffer. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial
condition.


29




Table of Contents



Business interruptions could adversely affect our future
operating results.



Several of our major business operations are subject to
interruption by earthquake, fire, power
shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, and other events beyond our control. Our
global operations are also dependent on political stability in regions with emerging economies and
less predictable regulation of commerce. The majority of our research and development activities,
our corporate headquarters, our principal information technology systems, and other critical
business operations are located near major seismic faults. We do not carry earthquake insurance for
direct quake-related losses. While we maintain disaster recovery facilities for key data centers
that support the information systems, networks and databases that are necessary to operate our
business, we do not have disaster recovery facilities for all of our data centers. Our operating
results and financial condition could be materially harmed in the event of a major earthquake or
other natural or man-made disaster or disruption.


30




Table of Contents






ITEM 1B