ITEM 1A

RISK FACTORS

Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements in this report,
other than statements that are purely historical, are forward-looking statements. Words such as
“expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “forecast,” “estimate,” “seek,” and similar
expressions also identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking statements
include, without limitation, the following:




     
    •
     
    our expectations and beliefs regarding future conduct and growth of the business;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding competition and our ability to compete effectively;



     

     
    •
     
    our expectations regarding the development of future products, services and technology
platforms and our research and development efforts;



     

     
    •
     
    our intention to create easy-to-use connected services that solve customer problems
while building durable competitive advantage;



     

     
    •
     
    the assumptions underlying our critical accounting policies and estimates, including
our estimates regarding product rebate and return reserves; stock volatility and other
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based compensation; and expected
future amortization of purchased intangible assets;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the investments that we hold are not other-than-temporarily impaired;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that the reduction in liquidity of the municipal auction rate securities we
hold will not have a material impact on our overall ability to meet our liquidity needs;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our exposure to currency exchange fluctuation risk will not be significant in the future;



     

     
    •
     
    our assessments and estimates that determine our effective tax rate;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our income tax valuation allowance is sufficient;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from
operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and other
liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that long-term trends toward the use of both desktop and online software
will provide future growth opportunities;



     

     
    •
     
    our belief that our facilities are adequate for our near-term needs and that we will be
able to locate additional facilities as needed; and



     

     
    •
     
    our assessments and beliefs regarding the future outcome of pending legal proceedings
and the liability, if any, that Intuit may incur as a result of those proceedings.




We caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current
expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to
read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before
deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. These forward-looking
statements are based on information as of the filing date of this Annual Report, and we undertake
no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason.


Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors
that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
statements. These factors include the following:
We face intense competitive pressures that may harm our operating results.

We face intense competition in all of our businesses, and we expect competition to remain intense
in the future. The number, resources and sophistication of the companies with whom we compete have
increased as we continue to expand our product and service offerings. Our competitors, whether new
or well-established, may introduce superior products and services, reduce prices, gain better
access to distribution

16



Table of Contents


channels, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have
greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established
relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market
with new products and services. We also face intensified competition from providers of free online
and desktop accounting, tax, banking and other financial services. In order to compete, we have
also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers
or effectively monetize all of these offerings, and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s
products and services may elect to use free offerings instead. These competitive factors may
diminish our revenue and profitability, and harm our ability to acquire and retain customers.

Our consumer tax business faces significant competition from both the public and private sector.
In the public sector we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities developing software
or other systems to facilitate tax return preparation and electronic filing at no charge to
taxpayers. These or similar programs may be introduced or expanded in the future, which may cause
us to lose customers and revenue. Although the Free File Alliance has kept the federal government
from being a direct competitor to Intuit’s tax offerings, it has fostered additional online
competition and may cause us to lose significant revenue opportunities. In addition, taxpayers who
formerly have paid for Intuit’s products may elect to use Intuit’s or our competitors’ free federal
service instead. The current agreement with the Free File Alliance is scheduled to expire in
October 2009. Although we are in negotiations with the IRS and other members of the Free File
Alliance to renew this agreement there is no guarantee an agreement will be reached prior to its
termination. If the IRS chose not to renew this agreement or terminated the agreement and elected
to provide government software and electronic filing services to taxpayers at no charge, or if the
federal government significantly altered the Free File Alliance or required the provision of
government tax filing services directly to taxpayers, our revenue and profits may suffer. See the
discussion on the Free File Alliance in Item 1, “Business — Competition.” We anticipate that
governmental encroachment may present a continued competitive threat to our business for the
foreseeable future.

Future revenue growth depends upon our ability to adapt to technological change and successfully
introduce new and enhanced products and services.

The Software as a Service (SaaS) and desktop software industries are characterized by rapidly
changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. As we
continue to grow our SaaS and other offerings, we must continue to innovate and develop new
products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software
developers. We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on
existing and emerging technologies. We are currently in the process of updating the software
platforms related to a number of our offerings. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen
difficulties in upgrading our systems and architecture, we may not be able to develop new offerings
and enhancements that we need to remain competitive.

A number of our businesses also derive a significant amount of their revenue from one-time upfront
license fees and rely on customer upgrades and service offerings to generate a significant portion
of their revenues. In addition, our consumer and professional tax businesses depend significantly
on revenue from customers who return each year to use our updated tax preparation and filing
software and services. As our existing products mature, encouraging customers to purchase product
upgrades becomes more challenging unless new product releases provide features and functionality
that have meaningful incremental value. If we are not able to develop and clearly demonstrate the
value of new or upgraded products or services to our customers, our revenues may be harmed.

In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on products
or services that do not ultimately succeed in their markets. We have encountered difficulty in
launching new products and services in the past. If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our
new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed.

17


Table of Contents






As our product and service offerings become more complex our revenue streams may become less
predictable.



Our expanding range of products and services, including services delivered online, generates more
varied revenue streams than our traditional desktop software businesses, and the accounting
policies that apply to revenue from our newer offerings are complex. For example, as we offer
online services bundled with other products, we may be required to defer a higher percentage of our
product revenue into future fiscal periods. In addition, as we offer more services on a
subscription basis, we recognize revenue from those services over the periods in which the services
are provided. This may result in significant shifts of revenue from quarter to quarter, or from one
fiscal year to the next, and may make our revenues less predictable.



Business interruption or failure of our information technology and communication systems may impair
the availability of our products and services, which may damage our reputation and harm our future
financial results.



As we continue to grow our online services, we become more dependent on the continuing operation
and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of our external
service providers. Any damage to or failure of our systems may result in interruptions in our
service, which may reduce our revenues and profits, cause us to lose customers and damage our
brand. In particular, any prolonged interruptions in our online tax preparation or electronic
filing services, or in any electronic filing systems operating by the government, at any time
during the tax season may result in lost customers, additional refunds of customer charges,
negative publicity and increased operating costs, any of which may significantly harm our business,
financial condition and results of operations. Although we have implemented practices designed to
maintain the availability of our online products and services and mitigate the harm of any
unplanned interruptions, we do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems, and our
disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. Despite our efforts to maintain
continuous and reliable server operations, we occasionally experience unplanned outages or
technical difficulties. Due to our evolving business needs, in fiscal 2008 and 2009 we built a new
data center in Washington state to support our longer term hosting requirements. We began occupying
this data center in the second half of fiscal 2009. If we do not execute the transition to the new
data center in an effective manner, we may experience unplanned service disruptions or unforeseen
increases in cost which may harm our operating results and our business. We do not maintain
real-time back-up of all our data, and in the event of significant system disruption, particularly
during peak tax filing season, we may experience loss of data or processing capabilities, which may
cause us to lose customers and may materially harm our reputation and our operating results.



Our business operations, data centers, information technology and communications systems are
vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, malicious attacks, fire, power loss,
telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, terrorist
attacks and other events beyond our control. The majority of our research and development
activities, our corporate headquarters, our principal information technology systems, and other
critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. We do not carry earthquake
insurance for direct quake-related losses. Our future financial results may be materially harmed in
the event of a major earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster.



We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and
service providers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests and host
certain online activities. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems may
prevent us or our service providers from accepting and fulfilling customer orders or cause company
and customer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and expand
our network security and other information systems may be costly, and problems with the design or
implementation of system enhancements may harm our business and our results of operations.



The recent global economic downturn may harm our business and financial condition.



The recent global economic downturn has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global
financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has impacted consumer and
small business spending. These macroeconomic developments may continue to negatively affect our
business and financial condition. Many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This
may result in reductions in sales of our products, slower adoption of new technologies and upgrades
to existing technologies and increased price competition. Decreased consumer spending levels may
also reduce credit and debit card transaction processing volumes causing reductions



18




Table of Contents






in our payments revenue. Weakness in the end-user market may negatively affect the cash flow of
our distributors and resellers who may, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us, which may
increase our credit risk exposure and cause delays in our recognition of revenue or future sales to
these customers. If economic or other factors cause financial institutions to fail or
macro-economic factors affecting banks, credit unions, mortgage lenders and other financial
institutions lead to cost-cutting efforts, we may lose current or potential customers or achieve
less revenue per customer and our revenues may suffer. Continued consolidation of the banking and
financial services industry, whether due to failures of financial institutions or other factors,
may result in a smaller market for our products and services and may cause us to lose relationships
with key customers. Any of these events may likely harm our business and our future financial
results.



The nature of our products necessitates timely product launches and if we experience significant
product quality problems or delays, it may harm our revenue, earnings and reputation.



All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that
increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays. Our tax preparation
software product development cycle is particularly challenging due to the need to incorporate
unpredictable tax law and tax form changes each year and because our customers expect high levels
of accuracy and a timely launch of these products to prepare and file their taxes by the tax filing
deadline. Due to the complexity of our products and the condensed development cycles under which
we operate, our products sometimes contain “bugs” that may unexpectedly interfere with the
operation of the software. When we encounter problems we may be required to modify our code,
distribute patches to customers who have already purchased the product and recall or repackage
existing product inventory in our distribution channels. If we encounter development challenges or
discover errors in our products late in our development cycle it may cause us to delay our product
launch date. Any major defects or launch delays may lead to loss of customers and revenue,
negative publicity, customer and employee dissatisfaction, reduced retailer shelf space and
promotions, and increased operating expenses, such as inventory replacement costs, legal fees or
payments resulting from our commitment to reimburse penalties and interest paid by customers due
solely to calculation errors in our consumer tax preparation products.



Our hosting, collection, use and retention of personal customer information create risk that may
harm our business.



A number of our businesses collect, use and retain large amounts of personal customer information,
including credit card numbers, tax return information, bank account numbers and passwords, personal
and business financial data, social security numbers and other payroll information. We may also
develop new business models that use personal information, or data derived from personal
information, in innovative and novel ways. In addition, we collect and maintain personal
information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal customer
and employee information is held and some transactions are executed by third parties. In addition,
as many of our products and services are Web based, the amount of data we store for our users on
our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. We and our vendors use
commercially available security technologies to protect transactions and personal information. We
use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information. However, a
third party may be able to circumvent these security and business measures, and errors in the
storage, use or transmission of personal information may result in a breach of customer or employee
privacy or theft of assets, which may require notification under applicable data privacy
regulations. We employ contractors, temporary and seasonal employees who may have access to the
personal information of customers and employees or who may execute transactions in the normal
course of their duties. While we conduct necessary and appropriate background checks of these
individuals and limit access to systems and data, it is possible that one or more of these
individuals may circumvent these controls, resulting in a security breach.



The ability to execute transactions and the possession and use of personal information in
conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require
notification to customers or employees of a security breach, restrict our use of personal
information and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or market to existing customers. As our
business continues to expand to new industry segments that may be more highly regulated for privacy
and data security, and to countries outside the U.S. that have more strict data protection laws,
our compliance requirements and costs may increase. We have incurred — and may continue to incur -
significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed
by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations.



19




Table of Contents






In the past we have experienced lawsuits and negative publicity relating to privacy issues and we
may face similar suits in the future. A major breach of our security measures or those of third
parties that execute transactions or hold and manage personal information may have serious negative
consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced customer
demand for our services, harm to our reputation and brands, further regulation and oversight by
federal or state agencies, and loss of our ability to provide financial transaction services or
accept and process customer credit card orders or tax returns. From time to time, we detect, or
receive notices from customers or public or private agencies that they have detected,
vulnerabilities in our servers, our software or third-party software components that are
distributed with our products. The existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a
security breach, may harm customer confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we
may not be able to discover or remediate such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited.
If hackers were able to circumvent our security measures, we may lose personal information.
Although we have sophisticated network and application security, internal control measures, and
physical security procedures to safeguard our systems, there can be no assurance that a security
breach, loss or theft of personal information will not occur, which may harm our business, customer
reputation and future financial results and may require us to expend significant resources to
address these problems, including notification under data privacy regulations.



Our reliance on a limited number of manufacturing and distribution suppliers may harm our business.



We have chosen to outsource the majority of the manufacturing and distribution for many of our
desktop software products to a single third party provider and we use a single vendor to produce
and distribute our check and business forms supplies products. Although our reliance on single
suppliers provides us with efficiencies and enhanced bargaining power, poor performance by these
suppliers may significantly harm our business. This risk is amplified by the fact that we carry
very little inventory and rely on just-in-time manufacturing processes. In particular, the loss of
our manufacturing partner for retail may be disruptive to our business and may cause delay in a
product launch. We seek to mitigate this risk by managing our second tier vendors and maintaining
contingency plans. If we experience delays during a peak demand period or significant quality
issues our business may be significantly harmed.



Our revenue and earnings are highly seasonal and our quarterly results fluctuate significantly.



Several of our businesses are highly seasonal causing significant quarterly fluctuations in our
financial results. Revenue and operating results are usually strongest during the second and third
fiscal quarters ending January 31 and April 30 due to our tax businesses contributing most of their
revenue during those quarters and the timing of the release of our small business software products
and upgrades. We experience lower revenues, and significant operating losses, in the first and
fourth quarters ending October 31 and July 31. Our financial results may also fluctuate from
quarter to quarter and year to year due to a variety of factors, including changes in product sales
mix that affect average selling prices; product release dates; the timing of delivery of federal
and state tax forms; the timing of our discontinuance of support for older product offerings;
changes to our bundling strategy, such as the inclusion of upgrades with certain offerings; changes
to how we communicate the availability of new functionality in the future (any of which may impact
the pattern of revenue recognition); and the timing of acquisitions, divestitures, and goodwill and
purchased intangible asset impairment charges.



If we are unable to develop and maintain critical third party business relationships, the business
may be adversely affected.



Our growth is dependent on the strength of our business relationships and our ability to continue
to develop and maintain new relationships. We rely on various business partners, including third
party service providers, vendors, licensing partners, development partners, and licensees, among
others, in many areas of our business. The failure of these third parties to provide adequate
services and technologies, or the failure of the third parties to adequately maintain or update
their services and technologies, could result in a disruption to our business operations.
Alternative arrangements and services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms
or we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner or vendor.



In the financial institutions business, we rely on core processors and other third parties to
enable our online banking and bill pay services. Consolidation among core processors or between
core processors and online banking and bill-pay providers may create larger or
vertically-integrated competitors that may have stronger relationships with our current or
potential financial institutions clients. If these core processors fail to support any of the
functionality in



20




Table of Contents


our products and services or significantly raise their prices, we may lose customers and our
financial results may suffer.

Because we depend on a small number of larger retailers and distributors, changes in these
relationships may harm our business.

We sell most of our desktop software products through our retail distribution channel and a
relatively small number of larger retailers and distributors generate a significant portion of our
sales volume. Our principal retailers have significant bargaining leverage due to their size and
available resources. Historically, some retailers have elected to offer our tax products
exclusively, but we cannot guarantee that these exclusive relationships will continue in the
future. Any change in principal business terms, loss of exclusivity, major disruption or
termination of a relationship with these resellers, including due to bankruptcy of the resellers,
may result in a significant decline in our revenues and earnings. The sourcing decisions, product
display locations and promotional activities that retailers undertake may greatly impact the sales
of our products. Changes in our pricing, product offerings or features, or concerns by retailers
about our direct sales efforts, may cause retailers or distributors to reduce their efforts to
promote our products, eliminate any exclusive placements, or stop selling our products altogether.
If any of our retailers or distributors experience financial difficulties we may be unable to
collect amounts that we are owed. At January 31, 2009, in the midst of the 2008 consumer tax
season, amounts due from our 10 largest retailers and distributors represented approximately 51% of
total gross accounts receivable.

Increased government regulation of our businesses may harm our operating results.

The tax preparation industry continues to receive heightened attention from federal and state
governments. New legislation, regulation, public policy considerations or litigation by the
government or private entities may result in greater oversight of the tax preparation industry,
restrict the types of products and services that we can offer or the prices we can charge, or
otherwise cause us to change the way we operate our tax businesses or offer our tax products and
services. This in turn may increase our cost of doing business and limit our revenue opportunities.

We are also required to comply with a variety of state revenue agency standards in order to
successfully operate our tax preparation and electronic filing services. Changes in state-imposed
requirements by one or more of the states, including the required use of specific technologies or
technology standards, may significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our
customers and may prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely manner.

Our financial institutions business provides services to banks, credit unions and other
institutions that are subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. As a result,
our financial institution customers require that our products and services comply with the
regulations applicable to these customers. If we are unable to comply with these regulations, we
may incur significant costs and penalties, face litigation or governmental proceedings, and lose
our ability to sell to these customers. Any of these adverse events may harm our future financial
results and our reputation.

In addition, as we seek to grow our business, we may expand into more highly-regulated businesses
or countries, which may require increased investment in compliance and auditing functions or new
technologies in order to meet regulatory standards. Government authorities may enact other laws,
rules or regulations that place new burdens or restrictions on our business or determine that our
operations are directly subject to existing rules or regulations, such as requirements related to
data collection, use, transmission, retention and processing, which may make our business more
costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future
products or services, which may harm our future financial results.

Expansion of our operations in international markets exposes us to operational and compliance
risks.

As we continue to grow our business internationally we face increased risk which may harm our
business and financial condition. We have limited experience with operations outside the U.S. and
our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires management
attention and resources and is subject to a number of risks, including difficulties in managing
varying foreign operations, political or social unrest or economic instability, foreign currency
restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations, higher costs associated with doing business
internationally and potentially adverse tax consequences. Also, compliance with complex foreign
and U.S. laws and

21


Table of Contents






regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in
international jurisdictions and may expose us or our employees to fines and penalties.



If we encounter problems with our third-party customer service and technical support providers our
business and future financial results may be harmed.



We outsource a substantial portion of our customer service and technical support activities to
domestic and international third-party service providers, including service providers in India and
the Philippines, and we expect to continue to rely heavily on third parties in the future. This
strategy provides us with lower operating costs and greater flexibility, but also presents risks to
our business, including the following:







     
    •
     
    In recent years India has experienced political instability and changing policies that
may impact our operations. In addition, for a number of years India and Pakistan have been
in conflict and an active state of war between the two countries may disrupt our services.



     

     
    •
     
    Customers may react negatively to providing information to and receiving support from
overseas organizations.



     

     
    •
     
    We may not be able to affect the quality of support as directly as we are able to in our
company-run call centers.



     

     
    •
     
    International outsourcing has received considerable negative attention in the media,
which may harm our reputation, and the U.S. government may adopt legislation that may
affect how we operate. For example, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue
Service have released regulations restricting the flow of personal information to overseas
providers.



     

     
    •
     
    We rely on a global communications infrastructure that may be interrupted in a number of
ways. For example, in fiscal 2007 an earthquake in Taiwan caused temporary disruption to
overseas infrastructure.





We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud and with credit card
processing.



In our payments processing service business if merchants for whom we process payment transactions
are unable to pay refunds due to their customers in connection with disputed or fraudulent merchant
transactions, we may be required to pay those amounts and our payments may exceed the amount of the
customer reserves we have established to make such payments.



We are subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, as in
effect from time to time. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements may subject us to
fines and higher transaction fees or cause us to lose our ability to accept credit card payments
from our customers, resulting in harm to our business and future financial results.



If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may exploit our
innovations, which may weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue and earnings.



Our success depends upon our proprietary technology embodied in our offerings. We protect this
proprietary technology by relying on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark, patent,
confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements. Although we seek to obtain patent protection
for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of those innovations. Given
the cost of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to patent certain innovations that later
turn out to be important. There is also the possibility that, despite our efforts, the scope of
protection may be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. It
is possible that other companies may successfully challenge the validity or scope of our patents
and that our patent portfolio, which is relatively small, may not provide us with adequate
protection. Ultimately, our attempts to secure legal protection for our proprietary rights may not
be adequate and our competitors may independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our
products, or design around patents and other intellectual property rights. If our intellectual
property protection proves inadequate we may lose our competitive advantage and our future
financial results may suffer.



Third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights may cause us to incur significant
legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products.



As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these
products further overlap, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may
become increasingly subject to infringement



22




Table of Contents



claims, including patent, copyright, and trademark infringement claims. Litigation may be
necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent rights of others. We have received
allegations of patent infringement claims in the past and may receive more claims in the future
based on allegations that our products infringe upon patents held by third parties. Some of these
claims are the subject of pending litigation against us and against some of our OEM customers.
These claims may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no
relevant product revenues of their own, and against whom our own patents may provide little or no
deterrence. The ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain and, regardless of outcome, any
such claim, with or without merit, may be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation,
divert management’s time and attention from our business, require us to stop selling, delay
shipping or redesign our products, or require us to pay monetary damages for royalty or licensing
fees, or to satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our
failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation arising out of intellectual
property claims may harm our business.


We expect copying and misuse of our intellectual property to be a persistent problem which may
cause lost revenue and increased expenses.


Policing unauthorized use and copying of our products is difficult, expensive, and time consuming.
Current U.S. laws that prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software
piracy and the laws of many other countries provide very little protection. We frequently
encounter unauthorized copies of our software being sold through online marketplaces. In addition,
efforts to protect our intellectual property may be misunderstood and perceived negatively by our
customers. Although we continue to evaluate and put in place technology solutions to attempt to
lessen the impact of piracy and engage in efforts to educate consumers and public policy leaders on
these issues and cooperate with industry groups in their efforts to combat piracy, we expect piracy
to be a persistent problem that results in lost revenues and increased expenses.


Our use of third party intellectual property in our products and services may harm our business.


Many of our products and services include intellectual property of third parties, which we license
under agreements that must be renewed or renegotiated from time to time. We may not be able to
obtain licenses to these third party technologies or content on reasonable terms, or at all. If we
are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use this intellectual property in our products and
services, we may not be able to sell the affected products, which may in turn harm our future
financial results.


Some of our offerings include third-party software that is licensed under so-called “open source”
licenses, some of which may include a requirement that, under certain circumstances, we make
available, or grant licenses to, any modifications or derivative works we create based upon the
open source software. Although we have established internal review and approval processes to
mitigate these risks, we may not be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval
prior to use in our products. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source may not be
eliminated, and may, if not properly addressed, harm our business.


Our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business, may involve increased
expenses and may present risks not contemplated at the time of the transactions.


We have acquired and may continue to acquire companies, products and technologies that complement
our strategic direction. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:






     
    •
     
    inability to successfully integrate the acquired technology and operations into our
business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures;



     

     
    •
     
    inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition;



     

     
    •
     
    challenges retaining the key employees, customers, resellers and other business partners
of the acquired operation;



     

     
    •
     
    the internal control environment of an acquired entity may not be consistent with our
standards and may require significant time and resources to improve;



     

     
    •
     
    expenses, including the settlement of tax contingencies, associated with the
acquisition; and



     

     
    •
     
    unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including product or
service quality issues, intellectual property issues and legal contingencies.




23



Table of Contents











Acquisitions and divestitures are inherently risky. Our transactions may not be successful and
may, in some cases, harm our operating results or financial condition. If we use debt to fund
acquisitions or for other purposes, our interest expense and leverage may increase significantly.
If we issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders’ percentage
ownership and earnings per share may be diluted.



We have issued $1 billion in a debt offering and may incur other debt in the future, which may
adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results.



In fiscal 2007 we issued $1 billion in senior unsecured notes. We have also entered into a $500
million five-year revolving credit facility. Although we have no current plans to request any
advances under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general
corporate purposes or for future acquisitions or expansion of our business.



This debt may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other
things:







     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive
pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions;



     

     
    •
     
    requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations
to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow
available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and



     

     
    •
     
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our
business and our industry.





Our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our
ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness,
and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with
these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, our long-term
non-convertible debt includes covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain
liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the
covenants under our long-term debt or our revolving credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from
the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared
immediately due and payable.



In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and
liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other
negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility may
increase. In addition, any downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our ability to obtain
additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing.



We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services.



The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or
disseminated through their services is often unsettled. Claims may be made against online services
companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence,
copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the
materials disseminated through their services. Certain of our services include content generated
by users. Although this content is not generated by us, claims of defamation or other injury may
be made against us for that content. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability may
harm our business.



If actual product returns exceed returns reserves our future financial results may be harmed.



We ship more desktop software products to our distributors and retailers than we expect them to
sell, in order to reduce the risk that distributors or retailers may run out of products. This is
particularly true for our Consumer Tax products, which have a short selling season and for which
returns occur primarily in our fiscal third and fourth quarters. Like many software companies that
sell their products through distributors and retailers, we have historically accepted significant
product returns. We establish reserves against revenue for product returns in our financial
statements based on estimated returns and we closely monitor product sales and inventory in the
retail channel in an effort to maintain adequate reserves. In the past, returns have not differed
significantly from these reserves. However, if we experience actual returns that significantly
exceed reserves, it may result in lower net revenue.



24




Table of Contents


Acquisition-related costs and impairment charges may cause significant fluctuation in our net
income.

Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization and impairment of
purchased intangible assets, charges for in-process research and development, and impairment of
goodwill. Total acquisition-related costs in these categories were approximately $103 million in
fiscal 2009, $92 million in fiscal 2008, and $51 million in fiscal 2007. Although under current
accounting rules goodwill is not amortized, we may incur impairment charges related to the goodwill
already recorded and to goodwill arising out of future acquisitions. We test the impairment of
goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if indicators of impairment
arise. The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in
our fourth fiscal quarter that may not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods. At July 31,
2009, we had $1.8 billion in goodwill and $293.0 million in net purchased intangible assets on our
balance sheet, both of which may be subject to impairment charges in the future. New acquisitions,
and any impairment of the value of purchased assets, may have a significant negative impact on our
future financial results.

Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect
the liquidity of these investments.

At July 31, 2009, we held a total of $244.5 million in municipal auction rate securities that we
valued at par. We classified $150.9 million of these securities as short-term investments and
$93.6 million of these securities as long-term investments on our balance sheet at that date. Due
to a decrease in liquidity in the global credit markets, in February 2008 auctions began failing
for the municipal auction rate securities we held. Regularly scheduled auctions for these
securities have generally continued to fail since that time. We will not be able to liquidate
these investments and realize their full carrying value unless successful auctions occur, a buyer
is found outside of the auction process, the issuer calls the security, the issuer repays principal
over time from cash flows prior to final maturity, or the security matures according to contractual
terms ranging from one to 38 years. We believe the fair values of the municipal auction rate
securities we hold are approximately equal to their par values. However, if the issuers of these
securities are unable to call the securities or successfully close future auctions and their credit
ratings are lowered, we may be required to record future impairment charges related to these
investments, which would harm our results of operations. If we are unable to find alternate means
to liquidate these investments, we may not realize the value of the investments until the final
maturity of the underlying securities.

In November 2008 we accepted an offer from UBS AG (UBS), one of the broker-dealers of our municipal
auction rate securities, that gives us the option to sell to UBS a total of $140.9 million in
municipal auction rate securities at par value at any time during a two-year period beginning June
30, 2010. The offer also gives UBS the discretion to buy any or all of these municipal auction
rate securities from us at par value at any time. To date UBS has not purchased any of these
securities from us. Even with this option, we may not realize the value of these investments until
after June 30, 2010. We continue to have counter-party risk associated with UBS.

If we fail to process transactions effectively our revenue and earnings may be harmed.

Our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis,
especially in our payroll and payments businesses. Due to the size and volume of transactions that
we handle, effective processing systems and controls are essential to ensure that transactions are
handled appropriately. Despite our efforts, it is possible that we may make errors or that funds
may be misappropriated due to fraud involving our offerings. In addition to any direct damages and
fines that any such problems may create, which may be substantial, the loss of customer confidence
in our accuracy and controls may seriously harm our business. The systems supporting our business
are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are difficult to scale. If we are unable to
effectively manage our systems and processes, we may be unable to process customer data in an
accurate, reliable and timely manner, which may harm our business.

Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the
highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth.

Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel,
including members of our executive team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions.
Experienced personnel in the software and services industries are in high demand and competition
for their talents is intense, especially in

25


Table of Contents






California, where the majority of our employees are located. Although we strive to be an employer
of choice, we may not be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel which
may cause our business to suffer.



We are frequently a party to litigation that is costly to defend and consumes the time of our
management.



We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct
of our business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of
legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Defending litigation consumes the time of
our management and is expensive for Intuit. Even though we often seek insurance coverage for
litigation defense costs, there is no assurance that our defense costs, which may be substantial,
will be covered in all cases. In addition, by its nature, litigation is unpredictable and we may
not prevail even in cases where we strongly believe a plaintiff’s case has no valid claims. If we
do not prevail in litigation we may be required to pay substantial monetary damages or alter our
business operations. Regardless of the outcome, litigation is expensive and consumes the time of
our management and may ultimately harm our future financial results.



Unanticipated changes in our tax rates may affect our future financial results.



Our future effective tax rates may be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in
the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their
interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax
returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the
likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our
provision for income taxes. There may be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous
examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future financial results.



Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.



Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance
of our existing and future products and services and is an important element in attracting new
customers. We believe that brand recognition will increase as competition in our markets develops.
Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to activities by our employees or agents
may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Damage to our reputation and loss of
brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our
future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and
restore the value of the brands.




26






Table of Contents




ITEM 1B