. Risk Factors.” We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.All financial information and statistical measures regarding our 50/50 Ilim joint venture in Russia (“Ilim”), other than historical International Paper Equity Earnings and dividends received by International Paper, have been prepared by the management of Ilim.   Ilim management has indicated that the financial information was prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and extracted from Ilim’s financial statements, but International Paper has not verified or audited any of this information. Any projected financial information and statistical measures reflect the current views of Ilim management and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such projections. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), or in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are some important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement.RISKS RELATING TO INDUSTRY CONDITIONSCHANGES IN THE COST OR AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS, ENERGY AND TRANSPORTATION COULD AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. We rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials (principally virgin wood fiber, recycled fiber, caustic soda and starch), energy sources (principally natural gas, coal and fuel oil) and third-party companies that transport our goods. The market price of virgin wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. Increased demand 7Table of Contentsfor biomass to meet a growing number of government mandates and incentives to promote the use of biomass for renewable electrical energy generation may also impact pricing and availability of virgin wood fiber. In addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, may cause an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. Energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future.Our profitability has been, and will continue to be, affected by changes in the costs and availability of such raw materials, energy sources and transportation sources.THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE EXPERIENCE BOTH ECONOMIC CYCLICALITY AND CHANGES IN CONSUMER PREFERENCES. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICES OF, AND THE DEMAND FOR, OUR PRODUCTS COULD MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. The length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. In addition, changes in consumer preferences may increase or decrease the demand for our fiber-based products and non-fiber substitutes. These consumer preferences affect the prices of our products. Consequently, our operating cash flow is sensitive to changes in the pricing and demand for our products.COMPETITION IN THE UNITED STATES AND INTERNATIONALLY COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We operate in a competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally, in all of our operating segments. Product innovations, manufacturing and operating efficiencies, and marketing, distribution and pricing strategies pursued or achieved by competitors could negatively impact our financial results.RISKS RELATING TO MARKET AND ECONOMIC FACTORSADVERSE DEVELOPMENTS IN GENERAL BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. General economic conditions may adversely affect industrial non-durable goods production, consumer spending, commercial printing and advertising activity, white-collar employment levels and consumer confidence, all of which impact demand for our  products. In addition, volatility in the capital and credit markets, which impacts interest rates, currency exchange rates and the availability of credit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our results of operations.THE LEVEL OF OUR INDEBTEDNESS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CON-DITION AND IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS. As of December 31, 2013, International Paper had approximately $9.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including $0 of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities and $8.8 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our floating and fixed rate notes. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business, including the following:•it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, dividends, share repurchases, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;•a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to payments on indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy other obligations;•our indebtedness that is subject to variable rates of interest exposes us to increased debt service obligations in the event of increased interest rates;•it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and•it may increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, and may make us unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth.In addition, we are subject to agreements that require meeting and maintaining certain financial ratios and covenants. A significant or prolonged downturn in general business and economic conditions may affect our ability to comply with these covenants or meet those financial ratios and tests and could require us to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our current business objectives.CHANGES IN CREDIT RATINGS ISSUED BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STATISTICAL RATING 8Table of ContentsORGANIZATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF FINANCING AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR SECURITIES. Maintaining an investment-grade credit rating is an important element of our financial strategy, and a downgrade of the Company’s ratings below investment grade may limit our access to the capital markets, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities, increase our cost of borrowing and require us to post collateral for derivatives in a net liability position. The Company’s desire to maintain its investment grade rating may cause the Company to take certain actions designed to improve its cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital.Under the terms of the agreements governing approximately $4.3 billion of our debt as of December 31, 2013, the applicable interest rate on such debt may increase upon each downgrade in our credit rating. As a result, a downgrade in our credit rating may lead to an increase in our interest expense. There can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. Any such downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of borrowing, limit our access to the capital markets or result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur.DOWNGRADES IN THE CREDIT RATINGS OF BANKS ISSUING CERTAIN LETTERS OF CREDIT WILL INCREASE OUR COST OF MAINTAINING CERTAIN INDEBTEDNESS AND MAY RESULT IN THE ACCELERATION OF DEFERRED TAXES. We are subject to the risk that a bank with currently issued irrevocable letters of credit supporting installment notes delivered to the Company in connection with our 2006 and Temple-Inland's 2007 sales of forestlands may be downgraded below a required rating. Since 2006, certain banks have fallen below the required ratings threshold and were successfully replaced, or waivers were obtained regarding their replacement. As a result of continuing uncertainty in the banking environment, a number of the letter-of-credit banks currently in place remain subject to risk of downgrade and the number of qualified replacement banks remains limited. The downgrade of one or more of these banks may subject the Company to additional costs of securing a replacement letter-of-credit bank or could result in an acceleration of deferred taxes if a replacement bank cannot be obtained. See Note 12 Variable Interest Entities and Preferred Securities of Subsidiaries on pages 72 through 75 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. OUR PENSION AND HEALTH CARE COSTS ARE SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS FACTORS WHICH COULD CAUSE THESE COSTS TO CHANGE. We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all U.S. salaried employees hired prior to July 1, 2004 and substantially all hourly and union employees regardless of hire date. We provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees. Our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns, changes in general interest rates and changes in the number of retirees may result in increased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets and health care reform could also increase pension and health care costs. Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.OUR PENSION PLANS ARE CURRENTLY UNDERFUNDED, AND OVER TIME WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO MAKE CASH PAYMENTS TO THE PLANS, REDUCING THE CASH AVAILABLE FOR OUR BUSINESS. We record a liability associated with our pension plans equal to the excess of the benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets. The benefit liability recorded under the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 715, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits,” at December 31, 2013 was $2.2 billion. This includes liability for the International Paper Company pension plans as well as the Temple-Inland Retirement Plan, for which we have responsibility in connection with the Temple-Inland acquisition. The amount and timing of future contributions will depend upon a number of factors, principally the actual earnings and changes in values of plan assets and changes in interest rates.CHANGES IN INTERNATIONAL CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our operating results and business prospects could be substantially affected by risks related to the countries outside the United States in which we have manufacturing facilities or sell our products. Specifically, Brazil, Russia, Poland, China, India, and Turkey where we have substantial manufacturing facilities, are countries that are exposed to economic and political instability in their respective regions of the world. Downturns in economic activity, adverse tax consequences, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar, nationalization or any change in social, political or labor conditions in any of these countries or regions could negatively affect our financial results. Trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including 9Table of Contentsgovernmental subsidies, tax benefits and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over International Paper, may also adversely impact our operating results and business prospects in these countries. In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under U.S. law and other laws related to operations in foreign jurisdictions. For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions and the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations.RISKS RELATING TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND COMPLIANCE COSTSWE ARE SUBJECT TO A WIDE VARIETY OF LAWS, REGULATIONS AND OTHER GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS THAT MAY CHANGE IN SIGNIFICANT WAYS, AND THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH SUCH REQUIREMENTS COULD IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.  Our operations are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and other government requirements -- including, among others, those relating to the environment, health and safety and to labor and employment. There can be no assurance that laws, regulations and government requirements will not be changed, applied or interpreted in ways that will require us to modify our operations and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs.  For example, we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, significant capital, operating and other expenditures complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that future remediation requirements and compliance with existing and new laws and requirements, including with global climate change laws and regulations, Boiler MACT and NAAQSs, will not require significant expenditures, or that existing reserves for specific matters will be adequate to cover future costs. We could also incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our operations or requiring corrective measures), natural resource damages claims, cleanup and closure costs, and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, regulations, codes and common law. The amount and timing of environmental expenditures is difficult to predict, and, in some cases, liability may be imposed without regard to contribution or to whether we knew of, or caused, the release of  hazardous substances.  As another example, we are subject to a number of labor and employment laws and regulations that could significantly increase our operating costs and reduce our operational flexibility.RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL EFFECT ON OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The costs and other effects of pending litigation against us cannot be determined with certainty. Although we believe that the outcome of any pending or threatened lawsuits or claims, or all of them combined, will not have a material effect on our business or consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that the outcome of any lawsuit or claim will be as expected.RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONSMATERIAL DISRUPTIONS AT ONE OF OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption at our corporate headquarters or one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial condition. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including:•fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other catastrophes;•the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on its water supply;•the effect of other severe weather conditions on equipment and facilities;•terrorism or threats of terrorism;•domestic and international laws and regulations applicable to our Company and our business partners, including joint venture partners, around the world;•unscheduled maintenance outages;•prolonged power failures;•an equipment failure;•a chemical spill or release;•explosion of a boiler;•damage or disruptions caused by third parties operating on or adjacent to one of our manufacturing facilities;10Table of Contents•disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels;•labor difficulties; and•other operational problems.Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned expenditures. If one of these machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to meet our production targets and satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in lower sales and having a negative effect on our business and financial results.WE ARE SUBJECT TO CYBER-SECURITY RISKS RELATED TO BREACHES OF SECURITY PERTAINING TO SENSITIVE COMPANY, CUSTOMER, EMPLOYEE AND VENDOR INFORMATION AS WELL AS BREACHES IN THE TECHNOLOGY THAT MANAGES OPERATIONS AND OTHER BUSINESS PROCESSES. International Paper business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third party verification, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks. Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation including, but not limited to interruption to systems availability, denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with International Paper. Access to internal applications required to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship finished goods and account for orders could be denied or misused. Theft of intellectual property or trade secrets, and inappropriate disclosure of confidential company, employee, customer or vendor information, could stem from such incidents. Any of these operational disruptions and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material effect on our business.SEVERAL OPERATIONS ARE CONDUCTED BY JOINT VENTURES THAT WE CANNOT OPERATE SOLELY FOR OUR BENEFIT. Several operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as the Ilim joint venture in Russia. In joint ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. In general, joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint  venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be adversely affected. In addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. THE AGREED-UPON TRANSACTION COMBINING XPEDX WITH UNISOURCE MAY NOT BE COMPLETED WITHIN THE EXPECTED TIMEFRAME, OR AT ALL, AND WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS FROM THIS DIVESTITURE OR FROM OTHER STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS, JOINT VENTURES AND DIVESTITURES.  On January 28, 2014, we announced that xpedx Holding Company (SpinCo) and Unisource will merge under the terms of a definitive agreement that will result in the creation of a new publicly traded company.  The transaction will be accomplished through a Reverse Morris Trust structure in which International Paper will indirectly contribute the assets of xpedx to a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary, SpinCo, in exchange for shares of common stock of SpinCo, a special payment of $400 million, subject to adjustments, expected to be financed with new debt in SpinCo's capital structure, as well as the potential for an additional cash payment pursuant to an "earn-out" provision. International Paper will distribute shares of SpinCo to International Paper shareholders on a pro rata basis in a manner intended to be tax-free to International Paper and its shareholders. The transaction is expected to be completed in mid-2014. Completion of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver) of a number of important conditions that are beyond our control and may prevent, delay or otherwise negatively affect its completion. The success of the transaction will depend, in part, on the ability of the combined company to realize anticipated growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies. SpinCo's success in realizing these growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of xpedx’s business and operations with Unisource’s business and operations. Even if the combined company is able to integrate the xpedx and Unisource businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies currently expected from this integration within the anticipated time frame or at all. Moreover, substantial expenses will be incurred in connection with the transaction and with the integration of xpedx’s business 11Table of Contentswith Unisource’s business.  Such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed current estimates.  Accordingly, the benefits from the transaction may be offset by costs or delays incurred in integrating the businesses.More broadly, our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to accomplish prudent strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures and to realize the benefits we expect from such transactions, and we are subject to the risk that we may not achieve the expected benefits. Among the benefits we expect from potential as well as recently completed acquisitions and joint ventures are synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities or access to new markets (or a combination thereof), and in the case of divestitures, the realization of proceeds from the sale of businesses and assets to purchasers placing higher strategic value on such businesses and assets than does International Paper.IF THE SPIN-OFF DOES NOT QUALIFY AS A TAX-FREE SPIN-OFF UNDER SECTION 355 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED, INCLUDING AS A RESULT OF SUBSEQUENT ACQUISITIONS OF STOCK OF INTERNATIONAL PAPER OR SPINCO, THEN INTERNATIONAL PAPER AND/OR THE INTERNATIONAL PAPER SHAREHOLDERS MAY BE REQUIRED TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAXES.The spin-off and the merger are conditioned upon International Paper’s receipt of a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to the effect that the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify as tax-free to International Paper and the International Paper shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, the IRS ruling does not rule that the spin-off satisfies every requirement for a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Code, and the parties will rely solely on the opinion of counsel for comfort that such additional requirements are satisfied.If the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Code, then the receipt of SpinCo common stock would be taxable to the International Paper shareholders, International Paper might recognize a substantial gain on the spin-off, and SpinCo may be required to indemnify International Paper for the tax on such gain pursuant to a tax matters agreement.  There can be no assurance that SpinCo would have the resources or liquidity required to indemnify International Paper for any such taxable gain. In addition, the spin-off will be taxable to International Paper pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or more change in ownership of either International Paper or SpinCo, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off.  Because the International Paper shareholders will collectively own more than 50% of our common stock following the merger, the merger alone will not cause the spin-off to be taxable to International Paper under Section 355(e) of the Code.  However, Section 355(e) of the Code might apply if other acquisitions of stock of International Paper before or after the merger, or of SpinCo after the merger, are considered to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spin-off. ITEM 1B