, Risk Factors, in this report.2PART IItem 1.BusinessThe Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (“Interpublic,” “IPG,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann.  The company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.About UsWe are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies.  Through our 42,000 employees in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines.  Our agencies create customized marketing programs for many of the world's largest companies.  Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world, as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services and gain market share.The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs.  Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by multiple IPG agencies working together.  With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region, or deliver global integrated programs.The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy,  establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, conducts investor relations, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide limited centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, executive compensation management and recruitment assistance, employee benefits, marketing information retrieval and analysis, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services. Our BrandsInterpublic is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists.  We have three global networks, McCann Worldgroup ("McCann"), Draftfcb and Lowe & Partners ("Lowe"), that provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients, and two global media services companies, UM and Initiative, operating under the Mediabrands umbrella.  We also have premier domestic integrated and interactive agencies that are industry leaders as well as a range of best-in-class specialized communications assets.•McCann offers a full range of communications tools and resources to many of the world's top companies and most famous brands, positioning  McCann  to meet client demands in all regions of the world and in all marketing disciplines. McCann Erickson Advertising has operations in over 100 countries.  MRM Worldwide is among our industry's largest global digital and customer relationship management ("CRM") networks.  Momentum Worldwide is a leader in experiential marketing and promotions, as is McCann Healthcare Worldwide in healthcare communications.•Draftfcb is a modern agency model for clients seeking creative and accountable marketing programs delivered in a media-neutral manner under a unified, integrated business.  The company has its roots in both consumer advertising and behavioral, data-driven direct marketing. We believe the agency is the first global, behavior-based, creative and accountable marketing communications organization operating as a financially and structurally integrated business unit.•Lowe is a premier creative agency that operates in the world’s most dynamic growth markets. Lowe's core strength is developing high-value ideas that connect with popular culture and drive business results. This is evident in the agency's global creative rankings and strong local operations in major key markets, such as Deutsch (U.S.), DLKW/Lowe (U.K.), Lowe Lintas (India) and BorghiErh/Lowe (Brazil).•Mediabrands delivers on the scale and breadth of our media capabilities, making investment decisions for tens of billions of dollars of client marketing budgets, yet retains a nimble, collaborative culture. UM and Initiative seek to deliver business results by advising clients on how to navigate an increasingly complex and digital marketing landscape. Specialist brands within Mediabrands focus on areas such as the targeting and aggregation of audiences in the digital space, hyper-local marketing, media barter and a range of other capabilities.•Our domestic integrated independent agencies include some of advertising's most recognizable and storied agency brands, including Campbell-Ewald, Hill Holliday, The Martin Agency and Mullen. The marketing programs created by this group incorporate all media channels, CRM, public relations and other marketing activities and have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.3•We also have exceptional marketing specialists across a range of disciplines. These include Jack Morton (experiential marketing), Octagon (sports marketing), industry-leading public relations agencies such as Weber Shandwick and GolinHarris, FutureBrand (corporate branding), and our digital specialist agencies, led by R/GA and HUGE, which are among the industry's most award-winning digital agencies. Our healthcare communications specialists reside within our three global brands, McCann, Draftfcb and Lowe.We list approximately 85 of our companies on our website’s “Company Finder” tool, with descriptions and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at http://www.interpublic.com.Market StrategyWe operate in a media landscape that is evolving at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to  make significant investments in creative and strategic talent in fast-growth digital marketing channels and high-growth geographic regions and world markets.  In addition, we consistently review opportunities within our company to enhance our  operations through mergers and strategic alliances, as well as the development of internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration.  As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market.  These include:•We re-organized our media operations under a single management structure, Mediabrands, to reinvent how we plan, buy and measure media investment on behalf of our clients.  We have also aligned a spectrum of specialist media companies under this structure.  Additionally, we have invested in technology and analytics, including the launch of the IPG Media Lab in New York in 2011, a highly advanced resource for our clients.  Since launch in 2008, Mediabrands has delivered industry-leading performance and growth.•We moved Lowe to a hub model, focused on a smaller and more strategic global footprint, and significantly revamped its management team in an effort to turn around its operating performance. Once this approach began to yield positive results, we strengthened Lowe's capabilities in the key Brazil and U.K. markets through acquisitions and in the U.S. by aligning Deutsch and Lowe in North America to create a more powerful offering from which to service and source multinational clients.•Five years ago, we combined accountable marketing and consumer advertising agencies in the unique global offering of Draftfcb, which is now operational throughout all world markets.•At our marketing services division, Constituency Management Group (“CMG”), we continue to strengthen our market leading public relations and events marketing specialists. In recent years, we built out significant social media practices across CMG agencies and expanded our operations in Latin America, China and the Middle East.•Our McCann unit continues the transformation of its offering under new global leadership with the delivery of best-in-class integrated marketing communications solutions in all geographic regions for the world's largest multinational advertisers.Digital GrowthDemand for our digital marketing services continues to evolve rapidly.  In order to meet this need and provide high-value resources to clients, we have in recent years focused our investment in embedding digital talent and technology throughout the organization. This reflects our belief that digital marketing cannot be treated as a stand-alone function, but should, instead, be integrated within all of our companies, mirroring the way in which consumers incorporate digital media into their other media habits, and, ultimately, their day-to-day life.  Recruiting and developing digital expertise at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines is an area in which we continue to invest.To meet the changing needs of the marketplace, we have acquired or incubated specialty digital assets, such as Reprise Media (search engine marketing), HUGE (e-commerce solutions), Cadreon (demand-side platform) and The IPG Media Lab.  We have also continued to invest in existing digital assets such as R/GA, a digital agency and industry leader in the development of award-winning interactive campaigns for global clients, as well as MRM, a leading global digital agency.   These companies have unique capabilities and service their own client rosters, while also serving as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.Fast-Growth RegionsWe continue to evaluate strategic opportunities to invest and grow in fast-growth geographic regions.  In recent years, we have made significant investments in India and Brazil, further strengthening our leadership position in these high-growth, developing markets. Transactions completed in Brazil include the 2011 acquisition of S2 Publicom, a leading public relations 4company and the 2010 acquisition of CuboCC, a new media and digital marketing services company.  Further, our operations  in India continue to be best-in-class as we support our strong growth in the region with partnerships and talent investment, giving us a leadership position in this important market.  We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”), among the region's premier marketing services companies. MCN is headquartered in Dubai, with 60 offices across 14 countries. Our partner in Russia is an acknowledged leader in that country. In China, where we operate with all of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest organically in talent and behind our agency brands.  Additional areas of investment in 2011 included key Asia Pacific markets.Acquisition StrategyWe feel that our company has the appropriate set of assets, capabilities and geographic coverage to succeed in today's media landscape.  However, when an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, IPG has been opportunistic in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions to enhance our offerings.  Our focus has been and will continue to be predominantly on digital and international growth markets.During the course of 2011, IPG acquired multiple agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in digital and social media, healthcare communications, and public relations, as well as agencies with full service capabilities.  All acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or existing agencies.Financial ObjectivesOur long-term financial goals include maintaining competitive organic revenue growth and continuing to improve our operating margins, which we expect will further strengthen our liquidity profile and increase value to our shareholders.  Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate and information technology. The improvements we have made in our financial reporting and business information systems allow us more timely and actionable insights from our global operations, while our conservative approach to our balance sheet and liquidity position provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage our business.We believe that our strategy and execution position us to be fully competitive in key growth areas such as digital services and emerging markets, with the talent and creativity to thrive in a content-driven media world, to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term shareholder value.Financial Reporting SegmentsWe have two reportable segments, which are Integrated Agency Networks (“IAN”) and CMG.  IAN is comprised of McCann, Draftfcb, Lowe, Mediabrands and our domestic integrated agencies. CMG is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group.  See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.Principal MarketsOur agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market.  Our geographic revenue breakdown is listed below. % of Total Revenue 2011 2010 2009Domestic55.4% 57.0% 56.1%United Kingdom7.7% 7.2% 7.6%Continental Europe13.0% 13.3% 15.4%Asia Pacific10.6% 9.8% 9.6%Latin America6.3% 5.6% 4.8%Other7.0% 7.1% 6.5%For further information regarding revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical basis for each of the last three years, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.5Sources of RevenueOur revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenue is directly dependent upon our ability to win new clients and the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.Revenues for the creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which we either retain in full or share with the client depending on the nature of the applicable services agreement.We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity services.In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges.Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work completed that is typically recognized during the fourth quarter. Fee revenue recognized on a completed contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31. Consolidated Revenues for the Three Months Ended 2011 2010 2009(Amounts in Millions) March 31$1,474.8 21.0% $1,337.0 20.5% $1,322.2 22.0%June 301,740.7 24.8% 1,611.7 24.8% 1,469.5 24.4%September 301,726.5 24.6% 1,553.4 23.9% 1,421.5 23.7%December 312,072.6 29.6% 2,005.2 30.8% 1,794.2 29.9% $7,014.6   $6,507.3   $6,007.4  See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our revenue recognition accounting policies.ClientsOur large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 22% and 24% of revenue in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Our largest client accounted for approximately 4% and 5% of revenue for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011, our five largest clients (in alphabetical order) were General Motors, Johnson & Johnson, Microsoft, Unilever and Verizon. We represent several different brands or divisions of each of these clients in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency systems. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry.  Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.PersonnelAs of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 42,000 people, of whom approximately 18,000 were employed in the United States.  Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel 6is of crucial importance to our continuing success.  We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies, and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention.  There is keen competition for qualified employees.Available InformationOur annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge in the Investors section of our website at http://www.interpublic.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee are available free of charge in the Corporate Governance subsection of the Corporate Citizenship section of our website at http://www.interpublic.com, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Secretary.  Information on our website is not part of this report.Item 1A.Risk FactorsWe are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to general economic and financial conditions, while others are more specific to us and the industry in which we operate.  The following factors set out potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face.  Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, could also have a negative impact on our business operations or financial condition. See also “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.”•We operate in a highly competitive industry.The marketing communications business is highly competitive.  Our agencies and media services compete with other agencies, and with other providers of creative, marketing or media services, to maintain existing client relationships and to win new business. Our competitors include not only other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies, but also smaller entities that operate in local or regional markets.  New market participants include database marketing and modeling companies, telemarketers and internet companies. The client’s perception of the quality of our agencies’ creative work and its relationships with key personnel at the Company or our agencies are important factors that affect our competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis and across a range of services may also be important competitive considerations.  On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost unlimited and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger competitor.Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time, and clients may choose to terminate their contracts on a relatively short timeframe. We have won and lost client accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions.  In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 22% of revenue in 2011.  A substantial decline in a large client’s advertising and marketing spending, or the loss of a significant part of its business, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations.Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients’ policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest.  These policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar services for competing products or companies.•As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. While we have seen economic recovery in most of our key markets during 2011, the strength and duration of the recovery has varied across geographic regions, and areas of uncertainty about the prospects for continued improvements in the global economy and a degree of caution on the part of some marketers continue to have an effect on the demand for advertising and marketing services.  In particular, the uneven pace of recovery in certain European markets has contributed to concerns over future growth in these markets.  In 2011, Continental Europe and the United Kingdom accounted for 13.0% and 7.7% of our revenue, respectively.  The marketing services industry can be affected more severely than other sectors by an economic downturn and can recover more slowly than the economy generally.  In the past, some clients have responded to weak economic and financial conditions by reducing their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses.  For example, we experienced a 10.8% organic revenue decline during 2009. This pattern may recur in the future.  If our business is significantly adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions, a decrease in our revenue could pose a challenge to our cash generation from operations.7•We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel.Our employees, including creative, digital, research, media and account specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most valuable assets.  An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel.  Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award and other factors which may be beyond our control.  In addition, the advertising and marketing services industry is characterized by a high degree of employee mobility.  If we were to fail to attract key personnel or lose them to competitors or clients, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.•We may not be able to meet our performance targets and milestones.From time to time, we communicate to the public certain targets and milestones for our financial and operating performance that are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance.  They should not be understood as predictions or guidance about our expected performance.  Our ability to meet any target or milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them.  Similarly, we may not realize the intended advantages of past or future investments or acquisitions of businesses because we may incorrectly evaluate risks and benefits from these transactions, or have unforeseen difficulties integrating them into our organization.  See “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.”•Our financial condition could be adversely affected if our available liquidity is insufficient.We maintain a committed credit facility to increase our financial flexibility (as amended and restated as of May 31, 2011, the “Credit Agreement”).  The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, and events like a material economic downturn could adversely affect our ability to comply with them.  For example, compliance with the financial covenants would be more difficult to achieve if we were to experience substantially lower revenues, a substantial increase in client defaults or sizable asset impairment charges.  If we were unable to comply with any of the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, we could be required to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders, and our costs under the Credit Agreement could increase.  If we were unable to obtain a necessary amendment or waiver, the Credit Agreement could be terminated.  Furthermore, the Credit Agreement includes commitments from a syndicate of financial institutions, and if any of them were unable to perform and no other bank assumed that institution’s commitment, the availability of credit under that agreement would be correspondingly reduced.  If credit under the Credit Agreement were unavailable or insufficient, our liquidity could be adversely affected.If our business or financial needs lead us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to access any new sources of liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  For further discussion of our liquidity profile and outlook, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.•International business risks could adversely affect our operations.We are a global business.  Operations outside the United States represent a significant portion of our revenues, approximately 45% in 2011.  These operations are exposed to risks that include local legislation, currency variation, exchange control restrictions, and difficult local political or economic conditions.  In developing countries or regions, we may face further risks, such as slower receipt of payments, nationalization, social and economic instability, currency repatriation restrictions and undeveloped or inconsistently enforced commercial laws.  These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and effectively manage our operations in those countries.  In addition, because a significant portion of our business is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as the Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Euro, Japanese Yen and Pound Sterling, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such currencies may materially affect our financial results. Concerns persist in Europe in particular over the debt burdens of certain countries that use the Euro as their currency and the overall stability of the Euro. Possible consequences, such as the re-introduction of individual currencies in countries currently employing the Euro or the dissolution of the Euro as a common currency, or market perceptions and uncertainties about the possibility and impact of such events, could adversely affect the value of our Euro-denominated assets and results of operations.•If our clients experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results.We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business.  Unfavorable economic and financial conditions could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and if these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of intangible assets, credit facility covenant violations and reduced liquidity.  For a description of our client base, see “Clients” in Item 1, Business.8•We are subject to regulations and other legal or reputational risks that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our performance or our financial condition.Our industry is subject to government regulation and other governmental action, both domestic and foreign. Advertisers and consumer groups may challenge advertising through legislation, regulation, judicial actions or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public welfare. Our business is also subject to specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements applicable to advertising for certain products.  Existing and proposed laws and regulations, in particular in the European Union and the United States, concerning user privacy, use of personal information and on-line tracking technologies could affect the efficacy and profitability of internet-based and digital marketing.  Legislators, agencies and other governmental units may also continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products, such as alcohol or tobacco, and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising, which, if successful, may hinder our ability to accomplish our clients’ goals and have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and, consequently, on our revenues.  Furthermore, we could suffer reputational risk as a result of governmental or legal action or from undertaking controversial work that may be challenged by consumer groups.•We rely extensively on information technology systems.We rely extensively and increasingly on information technologies and infrastructure to manage our business, including recording marketing strategies and client information, developing new business opportunities and processing business transactions. We operate in many respects on a decentralized basis, with a large number of agencies and legal entities, and the resulting size, diversity and disparity of our technology systems and complications in implementing standardized technologies and procedures could increase the potential vulnerability of our systems to breakdown, malicious intrusion or random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches, as well as improper use of social media, by employees and others may pose a risk that sensitive data could be exposed to third parties or to the public generally. Any such breakdowns or breaches in our systems or data-protection policies could adversely affect our reputation or business. •Our earnings would be adversely affected if we were required to recognize asset impairment charges or increase our deferred tax valuation allowances.We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill, other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability annually or whenever there is an indication that they are impaired or not realizable. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance.As of December 31, 2011, we have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including approximately $3.4 billion of goodwill.  Future events, including our financial performance, market valuation of us or market multiples of comparable companies, loss of a significant client’s business or strategic decisions, could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments may have become impaired.  For further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets, and our sensitivity analysis of our valuation of these assets, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  Any significant impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized.•Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us.We can be adversely affected if our credit ratings are downgraded or if they are significantly weaker than those of our competitors, because ratings are an important factor influencing our ability to access capital and the terms of any new indebtedness, including covenants and interest rates. Our clients and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Item 1B