Item 1A, Risk Factors. Forward-looking
    statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we
    undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light
    of new information or future events.


 


    Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and
    uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual
    results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not
    limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to retain and attract key employees;




 



     
        • 

    
    risks associated with assumptions we make in connection with our
    critical accounting estimates;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential adverse effects if we are required to recognize
    impairment charges or other adverse accounting-related
    developments;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential adverse developments in connection with the ongoing
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
    investigation;




 



     
        • 

    
    risks associated with the effects of global, national and
    regional economic and political conditions, including
    fluctuations in economic growth rates, interest rates and
    currency exchange rates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    developments from changes in the regulatory and legal
    environment for advertising and marketing and communications
    services companies around the world.





 


    Investors should carefully consider these factors and the
    additional risk factors outlined in more detail in Item 1A,
    Risk Factors, in this report.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 


    The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. was incorporated in
    Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson
    Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency
    businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by
    Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the
    Interpublic name since January 1961.


 



    About
    Us


 


    We are one of the world’s premier advertising and marketing
    services companies. Our agency brands deliver custom marketing
    solutions to many of the world’s largest marketers. Our
    companies cover the spectrum of marketing disciplines and
    specialties, from consumer advertising and direct marketing to
    mobile and search engine marketing.


 


    The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique
    needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving
    one agency and its client to long-term, fully-integrated
    campaigns created by a group of our companies working together
    on behalf of a client. With offices in over 100 countries, we
    can operate in a single region or align work globally across all
    major world markets.


 


    The role of the holding company is to provide resources and
    support to ensure that our agencies can best meet our
    clients’ needs. Based in New York City, Interpublic sets
    company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy,
    directs collaborative inter-agency programs, establishes
    financial management and operational controls, guides personnel
    policy, conducts investor relations and initiates, manages and
    approves mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide
    limited centralized functional services that offer our companies
    operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance,
    marketing information retrieval and analysis, legal services,
    real estate expertise, travel services, recruitment aid,
    employee benefits and executive compensation management.


 


    To keep our company well-positioned, we support our
    agencies’ initiatives to expand their high-growth
    capabilities and build their offerings in key developing
    markets. When appropriate, we also develop relationships with
    companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that
    complement our agencies and the programs they are developing for
    clients. In addition, we look for opportunities within our
    company to modernize operations through mergers, strategic
    alliances and the development of internal programs that
    encourage intra-company collaboration.


 



    Market
    Strategy


 


    We have taken several strategic steps in recent years to
    position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and
    communications market. We operate in a media landscape that has
    vastly changed over the last few years. Media markets continue
    to fragment and clients face an increasingly complex consumer
    culture.


 


    To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives,
    we have invested in creative talent in high-growth areas and
    have realigned a number of our capabilities to meet market
    demand. At our McCann Worldgroup unit, we have continued to
    invest in talent and in upgrading the group’s integrated
    marketing services offering at MRM, Momentum and McCann
    Healthcare. We combined accountable marketing and consumer
    advertising agencies to form the unique global offering
    Draftfcb. And at our marketing services group, Constituency
    Management Group (“CMG”), we continue to strengthen
    our public relations and events marketing specialists.


 


    We have also taken a unique approach to our media offering by
    aligning our largest media assets with global brand agencies.
    This approach ensures that the ideas we develop for clients work
    across new media as well as traditional channels. In 2007, this
    differentiated media strategy gained significant traction in the
    marketplace.



    
    4



Table of Contents




    The digital component of our business continues to evolve and is
    increasingly vital to all of our agencies. In order to grow with
    our clients, we have accelerated our investment in talent,
    professional training and technology throughout the
    organization. This reflects our strongly held belief that
    digital marketing is not a silo. Instead, digital capabilities
    must reside in all of our assets. For example, our public
    relations companies increasingly use blogs and social networking
    sites to influence consumer opinion, while our special events
    companies use digital kiosks and website surveys to gauge
    audience response. Recruiting and developing digitally
    conversant talent at all our agencies and in all marketing
    disciplines is therefore a priority and an area where we must be
    willing to invest. Strong, multi-channel talent is vital if we
    are to continue building long-term relationships with our
    clients.


 


    Where necessary, we have acquired or built specialty digital
    assets, such as Reprise Media (search engine marketing), The
    Interpublic Emerging Media Lab, and Ansible (mobile marketing),
    to meet the changing needs of our clients. R/GA, a stand-alone
    digital agency, is an industry leader in the development of
    award-winning interactive campaigns for global clients. All of
    these specialty assets have unique capabilities and serve as key
    digital partners to many of our agencies within the group.


 


    Likewise, we continue to look for strategic investments that
    give us a leadership position in emerging markets. Recent
    investments in India, where we operate three leading agency
    networks, and Brazil give our clients a strong foot-hold in
    these high-growth developing markets. Our partner in Russia is
    the acknowledged advertising leader in the country. In China, we
    continue to invest in our existing companies in the market,
    building on our decades-long commercial history.


 


    We believe that our market strategy and offerings can improve
    our organic revenue growth and operating income margin, with our
    ultimate objective to be fully competitive with our industry
    peer group on both measures. To further improve our operating
    margin we continue to focus on actively managing staff costs in
    non-revenue supporting roles; improving financial systems and
    back-office processing; reducing organizational complexity and
    rationalizing our portfolio by divesting non-core and
    underperforming businesses; and improving our real estate
    utilization.


 



    Our
    Offering


 


    Interpublic is home to some of the world’s best known and
    most innovative communications specialists. We have three global
    brands that provide integrated, large-scale solutions for
    clients: McCann Worldgroup (“McCann”), Draftfcb, and
    Lowe Worldwide (“Lowe”), as well as our domestic
    integrated agencies and media agencies.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    McCann offers
    best-in-class
    communications tools and resources to many of the world’s
    top companies and most famous brands. We believe McCann is
    exceptionally qualified to meet client demands, in all regions
    of the world and in all marketing disciplines, through its
    operating units: McCann Erickson Advertising, with operations in
    over 100 countries; MRM Worldwide for relationship
    marketing and digital expertise; Momentum Worldwide for
    experiential marketing; and McCann Healthcare Worldwide for
    healthcare communications.




 



     
        • 

    
    Launched in 2006, Draftfcb is a modern agency model for clients
    seeking creative and accountable marketing programs. With more
    than 130 years of expertise, the company has its roots in
    both consumer advertising and behavioral, data-driven direct
    marketing. We believe the agency is the first global,
    behavior-based, creative and accountable marketing
    communications organization operating as a financially and
    structurally integrated business unit.




 



     
        • 

    
    Lowe is a premier creative agency that operates in the
    world’s largest advertising markets. Lowe is focused on
    delivering and sustaining high-value ideas for some of the
    world’s largest clients. The quality of the agency’s
    product is evident in its global creative rankings and its
    standing in major markets. By partnering with Interpublic’s
    marketing services companies, Lowe generates and executes ideas
    that are frequently recognized for effectiveness, amplified by
    smart communication channel planning.






    
    5



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our domestic independent agencies include some of the larger
    full-service agency brands, Campbell-Ewald, Campbell Mithun,
    Deutsch, Hill Holliday, The Martin Agency and Mullen. The
    integrated marketing programs created by this group have helped
    build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all
    sectors and industries.




 



     
        • 

    
    We have exceptional marketing specialists across a range of
    channels. These include FutureBrand (corporate branding), Jack
    Morton (experiential marketing), Octagon (sports marketing),
    public relations specialists like WeberShandwick and Golin
    Harris, and
    best-in-class
    digital agencies, led by
    R/GA. Our
    healthcare communications specialists reside within our three
    global brands, McCann, Draftfcb and Lowe.




 



     
        • 

    
    We also have two global media agencies, Initiative and Universal
    McCann, which provide specialized services in media planning and
    buying, market intelligence and
    return-on-marketing
    investment analysis for clients. Initiative and Universal McCann
    operate independently but work alongside Draftfcb and McCann
    Erickson, respectively. Aligning the efforts of our major media
    and our integrated communications networks improves cross-media
    communications and our ability to deliver integrated marketing
    programs.





 


    Interpublic lists approximately 90 companies on our
    website’s “Company Finder” tool, with
    descriptions and office locations for each. To learn more about
    our broad range of capabilities, visit www.interpublic.com.
    Information on our website is not part of this report.


 



    Financial
    Reporting Segments


 


    We have two reportable segments: Integrated Agency Network
    (“IAN”), which is comprised of McCann, Draftfcb and
    Lowe, our media agencies and our leading stand-alone agencies,
    and CMG, which is comprised of the bulk of our specialist
    marketing service offerings. We also report results for the
    “Corporate and other” group. See Note 15 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.


 



    Principal
    Markets


 


    Our agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every
    significant world market. We provide services for clients whose
    businesses are broadly international in scope, as well as for
    clients whose businesses are limited to a single country or a
    small number of countries. The U.S., Europe (excluding the
    U.K.), the U.K., Asia Pacific and Latin America represented
    55.7%, 16.5%, 9.0%, 8.9% and 4.8% of our total revenue,
    respectively, in 2007. For further discussion concerning
    revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical basis for each
    of the last three years, see Note 15 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.


 



    Sources
    of Revenue


 


    Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and
    execution of advertising programs in various media and the
    planning and execution of other marketing and communications
    programs. Most of our client contracts are individually
    negotiated and accordingly, the terms of client engagements and
    the basis on which we earn commissions and fees vary
    significantly. Our client contracts are complex arrangements
    that may include provisions for incentive compensation and
    govern vendor rebates and credits. Our largest clients are
    multinational entities and, as such, we often provide services
    to these clients out of multiple offices and across various
    agencies. In arranging for such services to be provided, we may
    enter into global, regional and local agreements.


 


    Revenues for creation, planning and placement of advertising are
    determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser
    extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to
    reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a
    mark-up.
    Many clients include an incentive compensation component in
    their total compensation package. This provides added revenue
    based on achieving mutually
    agreed-upon
    qualitative
    and/or
    quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions
    are earned based on services provided, and are usually derived
    from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the
    assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us
    the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower
    net



    
    6



Table of Contents




    rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which is
    either retained in total or shared with the client depending on
    the nature of the services agreement.


 


    We pay the media charges with respect to contracts for
    advertising time or space that we place on behalf of our
    clients. To reduce our risk from a client’s non-payment, we
    typically pay media charges only after we have received funds
    from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent
    rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with
    the media provider that we will only be liable to pay the media
    after the client has paid us for the media charges.


 


    We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public
    relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and
    entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity
    services.


 


    Our revenue is directly dependent upon the advertising,
    marketing and corporate communications requirements of our
    clients and tends to be higher in the second half of the
    calendar year as a result of the holiday season and lower in the
    first half as a result of the post-holiday slow-down in client
    activity.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    Consolidated Revenues for the Three Months Ended


 




 


 


    2007


 


 


    2006


 


 


    2005


 



 





    March 31



 


    $


    1,359.1


 


 


 


    20.7%


 


 


    $


    1,327.0


 


 


 


    21.4%


 


 


    $


    1,328.2


 


 


 


    21.2%


 





    June 30



 


 


    1,652.7


 


 


 


    25.2%


 


 


 


    1,532.9


 


 


 


    24.8%


 


 


 


    1,610.7


 


 


 


    25.7%


 





    September 30



 


 


    1,559.9


 


 


 


    23.8%


 


 


 


    1,453.8


 


 


 


    23.5%


 


 


 


    1,439.7


 


 


 


    22.9%


 





    December 31



 


 


    1,982.5


 


 


 


    30.3%


 


 


 


    1,877.1


 


 


 


    30.3%


 


 


 


    1,895.7


 


 


 


    30.2%


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


    $


    6,554.2


 


 


 


 


 


 


    $


    6,190.8


 


 


 


 


 


 


    $


    6,274.3


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 


    Depending on the terms of the client contract, fees for services
    performed can be recognized in three principal ways:
    proportional performance, straight-line (or monthly basis) or
    completed contract. Fee revenue recognized on a completed
    contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues
    experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our
    contracts end at December 31. As is customary in the
    industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by
    either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.
    See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    further discussion of our revenue recognition accounting
    policies.


 



    Clients


 


    One of the benefits of the holding company structure is that our
    agencies can work with a variety of clients from competing
    sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue
    accounted for approximately 26% of revenue in 2007 and 2006.
    Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, our
    largest clients were General Motors Corporation, Microsoft,
    Johnson & Johnson, Unilever and Verizon. While the
    loss of the entire business of any one of our largest clients
    might have a material adverse effect upon our business, we
    believe that it is unlikely that the entire business of any of
    these clients would be lost at the same time. This is because we
    represent several different brands or divisions of each of these
    clients in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide
    services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines,
    in each case through more than one of our agency systems.
    Representation of a client rarely means that we handle
    advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all
    geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business
    from one of our agencies to a competing agency, and a client may
    reduce its marketing budget at any time.


 



    Personnel


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we employed approximately
    43,000 persons, of whom approximately 19,000 were employed
    in the U.S. Because of the service character of the
    advertising and marketing communications business, the quality
    of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success.
    There is keen competition for qualified employees.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Available
    Information


 


    Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and any amendments to these reports, will be made available,
    free of charge, at our website at
    http://www.interpublic.com,
    as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file
    such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC.


 


    Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct and the
    charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee
    and the Corporate Governance Committee are available free of
    charge on our website at
    http://www.interpublic.com,
    or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114
    Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention:
    Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could
    adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or
    financial condition. Some of these risks relate to the industry
    in which we operate, while others are more specific to us. The
    following factors set out potential risks we have identified
    that could adversely affect us. The risks described below may
    not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not
    yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, could
    also impair our business operations or financial condition. See
    also Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Ongoing SEC investigations regarding our accounting
    restatements could adversely affect us.





 


    Since January 2003 the SEC has been conducting a formal
    investigation in response to the restatement we first announced
    in August 2002, and in 2005 the investigation expanded to
    encompass the restatement we presented in our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 that we filed in
    September 2005. We have also responded to inquiries from the SEC
    staff concerning the restatement of the first three quarters of
    2005 that we made in our 2005 Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    We continue to cooperate with the investigation. We expect that
    the investigation will result in monetary liability, but as
    settlement discussions have not yet commenced, we cannot
    reasonably estimate the amount, range of amounts or timing of a
    resolution. Accordingly, we have not yet established any
    provision relating to these matters.


 


    The SEC staff has informed us that it intends to seek approval
    from the Commission to enter into settlement discussions with us
    or, failing a settlement, to litigate an action charging the
    Company with various violations of the federal securities laws.
    In that connection, and as previously disclosed in our current
    report on
    Form 8-K
    filed June 14, 2007, the staff sent us a “Wells
    notice,” which invited us to make a responsive submission
    before the staff makes a final determination concerning its
    recommendation to the Commission. We expect to discuss
    settlement with the staff once the Commission authorizes the
    staff to engage in such discussions. We cannot at this time
    predict what the Commission will authorize or the outcome of any
    settlement negotiations.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We operate in a highly competitive industry.





 


    The marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our
    agencies and media services must compete with other agencies,
    and with other providers of creative or media services, in order
    to maintain existing client relationships and to win new
    clients. Our competitors include not only other large
    multinational advertising and marketing communications
    companies, but also smaller entities that operate in local or
    regional markets. New market participants include systems
    integrators, database marketing and modeling companies,
    telemarketers and internet companies.


 


    The client’s perception of the quality of an agency’s
    creative work, our reputation and the agencies’ reputations
    are important factors in determining our competitive position.
    An agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large
    international clients, on a broad geographic basis is also an
    important competitive consideration. On the other hand, because
    an agency’s principal asset is its people, freedom of entry
    into the business is almost unlimited and a small agency is, on
    occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s
    account from a much larger competitor.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    Many companies put their advertising and marketing
    communications business up for competitive review from time to
    time. We have won and lost client accounts in the past as a
    result of such periodic competitions. In the aggregate, our top
    ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 26% of
    revenue in 2007. While we believe it unlikely that we would lose
    the entire business of any one of our largest clients at the
    same time, a substantial decline in such a client’s
    advertising and marketing spending, or the loss of its entire
    business, could have a material adverse effect upon our business
    and results of operations.


 


    Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing
    clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients’
    policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest. These
    policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even
    different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar
    services for competing products or companies.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees
    and management personnel.





 


    Employees, including creative, research, media, account and
    practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships
    with clients, are among our most important assets. An important
    aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and
    retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do
    so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the
    compensation we award, and could be adversely affected by our
    recent financial or market performance.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly
    susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic
    conditions.





 


    Economic downturns often more severely affect the marketing
    services industry than other industries. In the past, some
    clients have responded to weak economic performance in any
    region where we operate by reducing their marketing budgets,
    which are generally discretionary in nature and easier to reduce
    in the short-term than other expenses related to operations.
    This pattern may recur in the future.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect
    us.





 


    Our long-term debt is currently rated Ba3 with stable outlook by
    Moody’s, B with positive outlook by Standard and
    Poor’s, and BB- with stable outlook by Fitch. Any ratings
    downgrades or comparatively weak ratings can adversely affect
    us, because ratings are an important factor influencing our
    ability to access capital and the terms of any new indebtedness,
    including covenants and interest rates. Our clients and vendors
    may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract
    terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal
    with us, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our liquidity profile could be adversely affected.





 


    In previous years, we have experienced operating losses and weak
    operating cash flow. Until our margins consistently improve in
    connection with our turnaround, cash generation from operations
    could be challenged in certain periods. This could have a
    negative impact on our liquidity in future years and could lead
    us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity to fund our
    working capital needs. There can be no guarantee that we would
    be able to access any new sources of liquidity on commercially
    reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to do so, our
    liquidity position could be adversely affected.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    If some of our clients experience financial distress,
    their weakened financial position could negatively affect our
    own financial position and results.





 


    We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time,
    one or more of our clients may experience financial distress,
    file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. If any
    client with whom we have a substantial amount of business
    experiences financial difficulty, it could delay or jeopardize
    the collection of accounts receivable, may result in significant
    reductions in services provided by us and may have a material
    adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations
    and liquidity. For a description of our client base, see
    Item 1, Business — Clients.



    
    9



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    International business risks could adversely affect our
    operations.





 


    International revenues represent a significant portion of our
    revenues, approximately 44% in 2007. Our international
    operations are exposed to risks that affect foreign operations
    of all kinds, including local legislation, monetary devaluation,
    exchange control restrictions and unstable political conditions.
    These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and
    effectively manage our operations in those countries. In
    addition, because a significant portion of our business is
    denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such
    as the Euro, Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real,
    Japanese Yen and South African Rand, fluctuations in exchange
    rates between the U.S. dollar and such currencies may
    materially affect our financial results.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In 2006 and prior years, we recognized impairment charges
    and increased our deferred tax valuation allowances, and we may
    be required to record additional charges in the future related
    to these matters.





 


    We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill,
    other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and
    deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability at
    least annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment
    or lack of realizability. If certain criteria are met, we are
    required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance.
    In the past, we have recorded substantial amounts of goodwill,
    investment and other impairment charges, and have been required
    to establish substantial valuation allowances with respect to
    deferred tax assets and loss carry-forwards.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we have substantial amounts of
    long-lived assets, investments and deferred tax assets on our
    Consolidated Balance Sheet. Future events, including our
    financial performance and strategic decisions, could cause us to
    conclude that further impairment indicators exist and that the
    asset values associated with long-lived assets, investments and
    deferred tax assets may have become impaired. Any resulting
    impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported
    earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may not be able to meet our performance targets and
    milestones.





 


    From time to time, we communicate to the public certain targets
    and milestones for our financial and operating performance
    including, but not limited to, the areas of revenue and
    operating margin growth. These targets and milestones are
    intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our
    performance, but they should not be understood as predictions or
    guidance about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any
    target or milestone is subject to inherent risks and
    uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue
    reliance on them. See “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
    Disclosure.”


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We are subject to regulations and other governmental
    scrutiny that could restrict our activities or negatively impact
    our revenues.





 


    Our industry is subject to government regulation and other
    governmental action, both domestic and foreign. There has been
    an increasing tendency on the part of advertisers and consumer
    groups to challenge advertising through legislation, regulation,
    the courts or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the
    advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public
    welfare. Through the years, there has been a continuing
    expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions,
    labeling disclosures and warning requirements with respect to
    the advertising for certain products. Representatives within
    government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to
    initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products
    and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising,
    which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising
    expenditures and consequently our revenues.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B