Item 1A., Risk Factors. Forward-looking
    statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we
    undertake no obligation to update publicly any of them in light
    of new information or future events.


 


    Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and
    uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual
    results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not
    limited to, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    risks arising from material weaknesses in our internal control
    over financial reporting, including material weaknesses in our
    control environment;



 

 


     
        •  

    
    our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients;



 

 


     
        •  

    
    our ability to retain and attract key employees;



 

 


     
        •  

    
    risks associated with assumptions we make in connection with our
    critical accounting estimates;



 

 


     
        •  

    
    potential adverse effects if we are required to recognize
    impairment charges or other adverse accounting-related
    developments;



 

 


     
        •  

    
    potential adverse developments in connection with the ongoing
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
    investigation;



 

 


     
        •  

    
    potential downgrades in the credit ratings of our securities;



 

 


     
        •  

    
    risks associated with the effects of global, national and
    regional economic and political conditions, including
    fluctuations in economic growth rates, interest rates and
    currency exchange rates; and



 

 


     
        •  

    
    developments from changes in the regulatory and legal
    environment for advertising and marketing and communications
    services companies around the world.





 


    Investors should carefully consider these factors and the
    additional risk factors outlined in more detail in
    Item 1A., Risk Factors, in this report.


 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and any amendments to these reports, will be made available,
    free of charge, at our website at http://www.interpublic.com, as
    soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Any document that we
    file with the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC’s
    Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330
    for further information on the public reference room. Our
    filings are also available to the public from the SEC’s
    website at http://www.sec.gov, and at the offices of the New
    York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). For further information
    on obtaining copies of our public filings at the NYSE, please
    call
    (212) 656-5060.


 


    Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct and each of
    the charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and
    the Corporate Governance Committee are available free of charge
    on our website at http://www.interpublic.com, or by writing to
    The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114 Avenue of the
    Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Secretary.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I



 




    
    



    
    Item 1. 

    
    Business





 


    The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. was incorporated in
    Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson
    Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency
    businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by
    Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the
    Interpublic name since January 1961.


 



    About
    Us


 


    The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., together with its
    subsidiaries (the “Company,” “Interpublic,”
    “we,” “us” or “our”), is one of
    the world’s largest advertising and marketing services
    companies, comprised of communication agencies around the world
    that deliver custom marketing solutions on behalf of our
    clients. These agencies cover the spectrum of marketing
    disciplines and specialties, from traditional services such as
    consumer advertising and direct marketing, to emerging services
    such as mobile and search engine marketing. With hundreds of
    offices in over 100 countries and approximately 42,000
    employees, our agencies develop marketing programs that build
    brands, influence consumer behavior and sell products.


 


    To meet the challenge of an increasingly complex consumer
    culture, we create customized marketing solutions for each of
    our clients. These solutions vary from project-based work
    between one agency and its client to long-term, fully-integrated
    campaigns involving several of our companies working on behalf
    of a client. Furthermore, our agencies cover all major markets
    geographically and can operate in a single region or align work
    globally across many markets.


 


    The role of the holding company is to provide resources and
    support to ensure that our agencies can best meet our
    clients’ needs. Based in New York City, Interpublic sets
    company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy,
    directs collaborative inter-agency programs, establishes
    financial management and operational controls, guides personnel
    policy, conducts investor relations and initiates, manages and
    approves mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide
    limited centralized functional services that offer our companies
    operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance,
    marketing information retrieval and analysis, legal services,
    real estate expertise, travel services, recruitment aid,
    employee benefits and executive compensation management.


 



    Our
    Strategy


 


    We compete in a fast-changing industry. To keep pace with the
    trends transforming the media landscape, including new
    technologies, a proliferation of media channels and changes in
    consumer habits, we believe a marketing communications group
    must have a broad spectrum of innovative agency brands to help
    clients navigate a fragmented market.


 


    To keep our company well-positioned, we support our
    agencies’ initiatives to expand their high-growth
    capabilities and build their offerings in key developing
    markets. When appropriate, we also develop relationships with
    companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that
    complement our agencies and the programs they are developing for
    clients. In addition, we look for opportunities within our
    company to modernize operations through mergers, strategic
    alliances and the development of internal programs that
    encourage intra-company collaboration.


 


    In 2006, we took a number of steps to lead our company forward
    strategically. These initiatives include merging two of our
    companies to form Draftfcb, a modern, integrated global
    agency; a realignment of our media assets with our two largest
    global advertising networks to create a closer working
    relationship between the two disciplines; a newly focused Lowe
    with hubs in eight key markets; and strategic digital
    investments both internally and externally.


 


    To manage the broadest range of clients, we continue to maintain
    separate agency brands in competing disciplines. Having distinct
    agencies allows us to create custom solutions best suited to
    specific clients, as well as avoid potential conflicts of
    interest among clients in the same industry.


 



    Our
    Brands


 


    Within Interpublic, we have some of the world’s best known
    and most innovative communication specialists.



    
    4



Table of Contents



 


    Globally, we offer three distinct options for clients seeking
    large-scale, integrated capabilities across all our disciplines.
    These include Draftfcb, Lowe Worldwide and McCann Worldgroup.


 


    Launched in 2006, Draftfcb is a modern agency model for clients
    seeking creative and accountable marketing programs. With more
    than 130 years of combined expertise, the newly formed
    company has its roots in both consumer advertising and
    behavioral, data-driven direct marketing. The agency is the
    first global, behavior-based, highly creative and accountable
    marketing communications organization to operate with a single
    income statement.


 


    Lowe Worldwide is a premier creative agency that operates in the
    world’s largest advertising markets. Lowe is focused on
    delivering and sustaining high-value ideas for some of the
    world’s largest clients. The quality of the agency’s
    product is evident in its global creative rankings and its
    standing in major markets, including the United Kingdom, United
    States, India, Sweden and much of Latin America. By partnering
    with Interpublic’s marketing services companies, Lowe
    generates and executes ideas that are frequently recognized for
    effectiveness, amplified by smart communication channel planning.


 


    McCann Worldgroup, one of the world’s leading marketing
    communications companies, offers
    best-in-class
    communications tools and resources to many of the world’s
    top companies and most famous brands. As more and more marketers
    seek additional ways to reach consumers, McCann Worldgroup is
    exceptionally qualified to meet their demands, in all regions of
    the world and in all marketing disciplines, through its
    operating units: McCann Erickson Advertising, with operations in
    over 100 countries; MRM Worldwide for relationship marketing and
    digital expertise; Momentum Worldwide for experiential
    marketing; and McCann Healthcare Worldwide for healthcare
    communications.


 


    Within our group, we also have a unique roster of strong
    full-service domestic agency brands, including Campbell-Ewald,
    Campbell Mithun, Deutsch, Hill Holliday, The Martin Agency and
    Mullen. The integrated marketing programs created by this group
    have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S.,
    across all sectors and industries.


 


    Interpublic also has two leading media specialists, Initiative
    and Universal McCann. To develop creative ideas that resonate
    with consumers, brand-building agencies must work closely with
    media agencies. Initiative and Universal McCann operate
    independently but were aligned with Draftfcb and McCann
    Erickson, respectively, in late 2006. This approach is intended
    to improve cross-media communications and our ability to deliver
    integrated marketing programs. Our “aligned model”
    with respect to media differentiates us from our principal
    competitors.


 


    Interpublic also has exceptional specialist firms across the
    full range of marketing services. These include FutureBrand
    (corporate branding), Jack Morton (experiential marketing),
    Octagon (sports marketing), Regan Campbell Ward (healthcare
    communications), and WeberShandwick (public relations), all of
    which report into our Constituency Management Group
    (“CMG”). We also have
    best-in-class
    digital agencies, led by R/GA. To further strengthen our
    emerging-media offering, in late 2006 we formed the Futures
    Marketing Group, which houses existing high-growth media
    offerings such as the Interpublic Emerging Media Lab and fosters
    new media investments and alliances. Many more of our marketing
    specialists can be found using the “Company Finder”
    tool on our website, www.interpublic.com.


 


    To help clients target fast-growth demographic segments in the
    U.S. market, Interpublic owns a stake in several
    multicultural agencies, including abecé (Hispanic), Accent
    Marketing (Hispanic), The Axis Agency (African American),
    Casanova Pendrill (Hispanic), IW Group (Asian-Pacific American)
    and SiboneyUSA (Hispanic).


 



    Our
    Financial Reporting Segments


 


    For financial reporting purposes, we have two reportable
    segments: Integrated Agency Network (“IAN”), which is
    comprised of Draftfcb, Lowe, McCann, our media agencies and our
    leading stand-alone agencies, and CMG, which is comprised of the
    bulk of our specialist marketing service offerings. We also
    report results for the “Corporate and other” group.
    Until December 31, 2005, we had an additional segment,
    Motorsports operations (“Motorsports”), which was sold
    during 2004 and had immaterial residual operating results in
    2005. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    for further discussion.


 



    Principal
    Markets


 


    Our agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every
    significant world market. We provide services for clients whose
    businesses are broadly international in scope, as well as for
    clients whose businesses are limited to



    
    5



Table of Contents




    a single country or a small number of countries. The United
    States (“U.S.”), Europe (excluding the United Kingdom
    (“U.K.”)), the U.K., Asia Pacific and Latin America
    represented 55.6%, 16.8%, 9.1%, 8.3% and 4.9% of our total
    revenue, respectively, in 2006. For further discussion
    concerning revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical
    basis for each of the last three years, see Note 15 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Sources
    of Revenue


 


    Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and
    execution of advertising programs in various media and the
    planning and execution of other marketing and communications
    programs. Most of our client contracts are individually
    negotiated and accordingly, the terms of client engagements and
    the basis on which we earn commissions and fees vary
    significantly. Our client contracts are complex arrangements
    that may include provisions for incentive compensation and
    govern vendor rebates and credits. Our largest clients are
    multinational entities and, as such, we often provide services
    to these clients out of multiple offices and across various
    agencies. In arranging for such services to be provided, we may
    enter into global, regional and local agreements.


 


    Revenues for creation, planning and placement of advertising are
    determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser
    extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to
    reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a
    mark-up.
    Many clients include an incentive compensation component in
    their total compensation package. This provides added revenue
    based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative
    and/or
    quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions
    are earned based on services provided, and are usually derived
    from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the
    assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us
    the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower
    net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which
    is either retained in total or shared with the client depending
    on the nature of the services agreement.


 


    We pay the media charges with respect to contracts for
    advertising time or space that we place on behalf of our
    clients. To reduce our risk from a client’s non-payment, we
    typically pay media charges only after we have received funds
    from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent
    rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with
    the media provider that we will only be liable to pay the media
    after the client has paid us for the media charges.


 


    We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public
    relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and
    entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity
    services.


 


    Our revenue is directly dependent upon the advertising,
    marketing and corporate communications requirements of our
    clients and tends to be higher in the second half of the
    calendar year as a result of the holiday season and lower in the
    first half as a result of the post-holiday slow-down in client
    activity. Depending on the terms of the client contract, fees
    for services performed can be primarily recognized three ways:
    proportional performance, straight-line (or monthly basis) or
    completed contract. Fee revenue recognized on a completed
    contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues
    experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our
    contracts end at December 31. As is customary in the
    industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by
    either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.
    See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
    further discussion of our revenue recognition accounting
    policies.


 



    Clients


 


    In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted
    for approximately 25% of revenue in 2006 and 2005. Based on
    revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, our largest
    clients were General Motors Corporation, Johnson &
    Johnson, Microsoft, Unilever and Verizon. While the loss of the
    entire business of any one of our largest clients might have a
    material adverse effect upon our business, we believe that it is
    unlikely that the entire business of any of these clients would
    be lost at the same time. This is because we represent several
    different brands or divisions of each of these clients in a
    number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across
    multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case
    through more than one of our agency systems. Representation of a
    client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or
    product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any
    client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to a
    competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget
    at any time.



    
    6



Table of Contents



 



    Personnel


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we employed approximately 42,000
    persons, of whom approximately 18,000 were employed in the
    U.S. Because of the service character of the advertising
    and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel
    is of crucial importance to our continuing success. There is
    keen competition for qualified employees.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could
    adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or
    financial condition. Some of these risks relate to the industry
    in which we operate, while others are more specific to us. The
    following factors set out potential risks we have identified
    that could adversely affect us. See also Statement Regarding
    Forward-Looking Disclosure.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    We have numerous material weaknesses in our internal
    control over financial reporting and extensive work remaining to
    remediate these weaknesses.





 


    We have identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal
    control over financial reporting, and our internal control over
    financial reporting was not effective as of December 31,
    2006. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses,
    see Item 8, Management’s Assessment of Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting, in this report. Each of our
    material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood
    that a material misstatement will not be prevented or detected.
    Given the extensive material weaknesses identified, there is a
    risk of errors not being prevented or detected, which could
    require us to restate our financial statements in the future.
    Any such restatements could result in or contribute to
    regulatory actions or civil litigation, ratings downgrades,
    negative publicity or difficulties in attracting or retaining
    key clients, employees and management personnel.


 


    We incurred significant professional fees and other expenses in
    2006 to prepare our consolidated financial statements and to
    comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, in particular as a result of the
    extent of the deficiencies in our internal control over
    financial reporting and the extensive additional work and
    resources required to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of our financial statements. The cost of this work
    will continue to be significant in 2007 and beyond.


 


    Because of our decentralized structure and our many disparate
    accounting systems of varying quality and sophistication, we
    have extensive work remaining to remediate our material
    weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. We have
    developed a work plan with the goal of remediating all of the
    identified material weaknesses by the time we file our Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    for the year ending December 31, 2007. There can be no
    assurance, however, as to when the remediation plan will be
    fully implemented and all the material weaknesses remediated.
    Until our remediation is completed, there will also continue to
    be a risk that we will be unable to file future periodic reports
    with the SEC in a timely manner and that a default could result
    under the indentures governing our debt securities, under any of
    our credit facilities or under any credit facilities of our
    subsidiaries.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Ongoing SEC investigations regarding our accounting
    restatements could adversely affect us.





 


    The SEC opened a formal investigation in response to the
    restatement we first announced in August 2002 and the
    investigation expanded to encompass the restatement we presented
    in our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2004 that we filed in
    September 2005 (the “2005 Restatement”). In
    particular, since we filed our 2004 Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    we have received subpoenas from the SEC relating to matters
    addressed in our 2005 Restatement. We have also responded to
    inquiries from the SEC staff concerning the restatement of the
    first three quarters of 2005 that we made in our 2005 Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.
    We continue to cooperate with the investigation. We expect that
    the investigation will result in monetary liability, but because
    the investigation is ongoing, in particular with respect to the
    2005 Restatement, we cannot reasonably estimate the amount,
    range of amounts or timing of a resolution. Accordingly, we have
    not yet established any accounting provision relating to these
    matters. Adverse developments in connection with the
    investigation, including any expansion of the scope of the
    investigation, could also negatively impact us and could divert
    the efforts and attention of our management team from our
    ordinary business operations.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    We operate in a highly competitive industry.






    
    7



Table of Contents



 


    The marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our
    agencies and media services must compete with other agencies,
    and with other providers of creative or media services, in order
    to maintain existing client relationships and to win new
    clients. The client’s perception of the quality of an
    agency’s creative work, our reputation and the
    agencies’ reputations are important factors in determining
    our competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve
    clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad
    geographic basis is also an important competitive consideration.
    On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is
    its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost
    unlimited and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all
    or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger
    competitor.


 


    Many companies put their advertising and marketing
    communications business up for competitive review from time to
    time. We have won and lost client accounts in the past as a
    result of such periodic competitions. Our ability to attract new
    clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases,
    be limited by clients’ policies or perceptions about
    conflicts of interest. These policies can, in some cases,
    prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our
    ownership, from performing similar services for competing
    products or companies.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees
    and management personnel.





 


    Employees, including creative, research, media, account and
    practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships
    with clients, are among our most important assets. An important
    aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and
    retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do
    so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the
    compensation we award, and could be adversely affected by our
    recent financial or market performance.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly
    susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic
    conditions.





 


    Economic downturns often more severely affect the marketing
    services industry than other industries. In the past, some
    clients have responded to weak economic performance in any
    region where we operate by reducing their marketing budgets,
    which are generally discretionary in nature and easier to reduce
    in the short-term than other expenses related to operations.
    This pattern may recur in the future.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect
    us.





 


    Our long-term debt is currently rated Ba3 with negative outlook
    by Moody’s, B CreditWatch negative by Standard and
    Poor’s, and B with negative outlook by Fitch. It is
    possible that our credit ratings will be reduced further.
    Ratings downgrades or comparatively weak ratings can adversely
    affect us, because ratings are an important factor influencing
    our ability to access capital. Our clients and vendors may also
    consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and
    if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it
    could have a significant adverse effect on our liquidity.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Our liquidity profile could be adversely affected.





 


    In previous years, we have experienced operating losses and weak
    operating cash flow. Until our margins consistently improve in
    connection with our turnaround, cash generation from operations
    could be challenged in certain periods. This could have a
    negative impact on our liquidity in future years and could lead
    us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity to fund our
    working capital needs. There can be no guarantee that we would
    be able to access any new sources of liquidity on commercially
    reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to do so, our
    liquidity position could be adversely affected.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    If some of our clients experience financial distress,
    their weakened financial position could negatively affect our
    own financial position and results.





 


    We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time,
    one or more of our clients may experience financial distress,
    file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. If any
    client with whom we have a substantial amount of business
    experiences financial difficulty, it could delay or jeopardize
    the collection of accounts receivable, may result in significant
    reductions in services provided by us and may have a material
    adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations
    and liquidity. For a description of our client base, see
    Item 1, Business — Clients.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    International business risks could adversely affect our
    operations.






    
    8



Table of Contents



 


    International revenues represent a significant portion of our
    revenues, approximately 44% in 2006. Our international
    operations are exposed to risks that affect foreign operations
    of all kinds, including local legislation, monetary devaluation,
    exchange control restrictions and unstable political conditions.
    These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and
    effectively manage our operations in those countries. In
    addition, because a significant portion of our business is
    denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such
    as the Euro, Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real,
    Japanese Yen and South African Rand, fluctuations in exchange
    rates between the U.S. dollar and such currencies may
    materially affect our financial results.


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    In 2006 and prior years, we recognized impairment charges
    and increased our deferred tax valuation allowances, and we may
    be required to record additional charges in the future related
    to these matters.





 


    We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill,
    other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and
    deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability at
    least annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment
    or lack of realizability. If certain criteria are met, we are
    required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance.
    In the past, we have recorded substantial amounts of goodwill,
    investment and other impairment charges, and have been required
    to establish substantial valuation allowances with respect to
    deferred tax assets and loss carry-forwards.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we have substantial amounts of
    long-lived assets, investments and deferred tax assets on our
    Consolidated Balance Sheet. Future events, including our
    financial performance and strategic decisions, could cause us to
    conclude that further impairment indicators exist and that the
    asset values associated with long-lived assets, investments and
    deferred tax assets may have become impaired. Any resulting
    impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported
    earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may not be able to meet our performance targets and
    milestones.





 


    From time to time, we communicate to the market certain targets
    and milestones for our financial and operating performance
    including, but not limited to, the areas of revenue growth,
    operating expense reduction and operating margin growth. These
    targets and milestones are intended to provide metrics against
    which to evaluate our performance, but they should not be
    understood as predictions or guidance about our expected
    performance. Our ability to meet any target or milestone is
    subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution
    investors against placing undue reliance on them. See
    “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.”


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We are subject to regulations and other governmental
    scrutiny that could restrict our activities or negatively impact
    our revenues.





 


    Our industry is subject to government regulation and other
    governmental action, both domestic and foreign. There has been
    an increasing tendency on the part of advertisers and consumer
    groups to challenge advertising through legislation, regulation,
    the courts or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the
    advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public
    welfare. Through the years, there has been a continuing
    expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions,
    labeling disclosures and warning requirements with respect to
    the advertising for certain products. Representatives within
    government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to
    initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products
    and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising,
    which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising
    expenditures and consequently our revenues.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B