, Risk Factors, in this report.PART IItem 1.BusinessThe Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (“Interpublic,” the "Company," “IPG,” “we,” “us” or “our”) was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.About UsWe are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Through our 49,200 employees in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Our agencies create customized marketing programs for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services, and gain market share.The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by multiple IPG agencies working together. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or deliver global integrated programs.The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, conducts investor relations, manages corporate social responsibility programs, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide certain centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, executive compensation management and recruitment assistance, employee benefits, marketing information retrieval and analysis, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services.Our BrandsInterpublic is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global networks:  McCann Worldgroup, Foote, Cone & Belding ("FCB") and MullenLowe Group, which provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients. Our global media services companies include UM and Initiative, which operate under the IPG Mediabrands umbrella. We also have a range of best-in-class global specialized communications assets as well as premier domestic integrated and digital agencies that are industry leaders.•McCann Worldgroup is a leading global marketing solutions network comprised of agencies that emphasize creativity, innovation and performance. McCann Erickson is one of the world's largest advertising agency networks; MRM//McCann conducts digital marketing and relationship management; Momentum oversees event marketing and promotion; McCann Health directs professional and consumer healthcare communications; and Craft Worldwide is the network's global adaptation and production arm. UM (media), Weber Shandwick (public relations) and FutureBrand (brand consulting) align with McCann Worldgroup to deliver fully integrated solutions.•FCB is a global, fully integrated marketing communications company focused on changing consumer behavior for the benefit of their clients, colleagues and communities. With more than 8,000 people from 120 offices in 80 countries, the network brings a strong understanding of local markets and cultures while continuing a heritage of creativity and success dating from 1873. The company has its roots in both creative, brand-building consumer advertising and behavioral, data-driven direct marketing.•MullenLowe Group is a creatively-driven integrated marketing communications network with a strong entrepreneurial heritage and challenger mentality. The network comprises a global creative boutique of distinctive diverse agencies, rich in local culture with both intimacy and scale, present in more than 65 markets with over 90 offices. With an integrated, hyperbundled operating model, MullenLowe Group consists of global brands including MullenLowe (full-service), MullenLowe Profero (integrated digital marketing), MullenLowe Mediahub (media and communications planning and buying) and MullenLowe Open (behavior-driven activation, customer relationship management (CRM) and shopper marketing). MullenLowe Group consistently ranks among the most-awarded creative and effective agency networks in the world.•IPG Mediabrands makes investment decisions for tens of billions of dollars of client marketing budgets. Its global full-service media agencies, UM and Initiative, deliver business results by advising clients on how to navigate an increasingly 2complex and digital marketing landscape through integrated, intelligence-driven marketing strategies. Specialist brands within IPG Mediabrands focus on areas such as media innovation, media forecasting, the targeting and aggregation of audiences in the digital space, and a range of other capabilities, including mobile, search, data and analytics, branded content, programmatic, barter and out-of-home media.•We also have exceptional global marketing specialists across a range of disciplines. Our industry-leading public relations agencies such as Weber Shandwick and Golin have expertise in every significant area of communication management. Jack Morton is a global brand experience agency, and FutureBrand is a leading brand consultancy. Octagon is a global sports, entertainment and lifestyle marketing agency. Our digital specialist agencies, led by R/GA, Huge and MRM//McCann, are among the industry's most award-winning digital agencies. Our premier healthcare communications specialists reside within our global creative networks.•Our domestic integrated independent agencies include some of advertising's most recognizable and storied agency brands, including Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday and The Martin Agency. The marketing programs created by these agencies incorporate all media channels, CRM, public relations and other marketing activities and have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.We list approximately 90 of our companies on our website under the "Our Agencies" section, with descriptions, case studies, social media channels and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.Market StrategyWe operate in a media landscape that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to make investments in creative and strategic talent in areas including fast-growth digital marketing channels, high-growth geographic regions and strategic world markets. We consistently review opportunities within our Company to enhance our operations through mergers and strategic alliances, as well as the development of internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration. As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market. These include:•Investment in senior talent:  We successfully completed management succession at our media management company, one of our global advertising networks and at a number of our U.S. integrated agencies and leading marketing services firms. We continue to acquire and develop top strategic, creative and digital talent.•Growing digital capabilities:  Our investments in talent and technology – organically growing digital capabilities such as search, social, user experience (UX), content creation, data and analytics, and mobile across the portfolio – promise to drive further growth in this dynamic sector of our business. We continue to internationalize our powerful digital specialist agencies.•Innovative media offering:  We launched IPG Mediabrands in 2007 to reinvent how we plan, buy and measure media investment for clients. Since then, it has delivered strong growth, and our Company has consistently been a leader in delivering fully competitive, efficient and effective traditional media buying to major clients, as well as automated digital ad buying and data and analytics.•Investment in emerging markets:  We strengthened our position in emerging markets by driving organic growth as well as completing strategic acquisitions in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, a region in which we have led the industry in organic growth.•Integrated marketing solutions:  A differentiating aspect of our business is our utilization of “open architecture” solutions that integrate the best talent from throughout the organization to fulfill the needs of our leading clients.Together, these steps have built a culture of strategic creativity and high performance across IPG, resulting in industry-leading new business performance, as well as increased honors and awards for our Company. In 2015, integrated media agency UM was named “Global Media Agency of the Year” by Adweek and “Media Agency of the Year” by Ad Age, two of the industry’s leading trade publications. Our best-in-class public relations offering led PRWeek to name Weber Shandwick its Global Agency of the Year in 2015 and The Holmes Report to name Weber Shandwick its “Global Agency of the Year” in 2015, 2014, 2012 and 2010. In 2015, McCann was named to the prestigious Ad Age A-List, the only global integrated creative network to receive the honor. In early 2016, Ad Age named a total of three IPG agencies, Deutsch, McCann and R/GA, to its A-List; additionally UM was named its "Media Agency of the Year." This level of industry recognition in all marketing disciplines has been consistent over the past few years and is unprecedented in our Company’s history.3Digital GrowthDemand for our digital marketing services continues to evolve rapidly. In order to meet this need and provide high-value resources to clients, we have focused on embedding digital talent and technology throughout the organization. This reflects our belief that digital marketing should be integrated within all of our companies. This structure mirrors the way in which consumers incorporate digital media into their other media habits and, ultimately, their daily lives. We continue to invest in recruiting and developing digital expertise at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines.To meet the changing needs of the marketplace, we have been active in making new acquisitions and minority investments in specialty digital assets. In addition, we have consistently invested in existing assets such as Cadreon (audience management platform), The IPG Media Lab, Huge, MRM//McCann as well as R/GA. These companies have unique capabilities and service their own client rosters while also serving as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.Fast-Growth and Strategic RegionsWe continue to invest and expand our presence in high-growth and strategic geographic regions. In recent years, we have made significant investments in Brazil and India, further strengthening our leadership position in these important developing markets. Most recently, we gained a stronger foothold in Russia by acquiring three creative agencies from ADV, our longtime partner in the country. Additionally, in 2015 Golin launched GolinMagic in China, a new venture with the Magic Group to establish a new public relations agency for this key market. Our operations in India are best-in-class, and we will continue to invest in partnerships and talent in this key market. We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”), among the region's premier marketing services companies. MCN is headquartered in Dubai, with 65 offices across 14 countries. In China, where we operate with all of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest organically in the talent of our agency brands. Additional areas of investment include other key strategic markets in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Africa.Diversity and InclusionIPG and our agencies are committed to diversity and inclusion, and we reinforce these values through a comprehensive set of award-winning programs. These include business resource groups that develop career building programs, as well as training around topics like unconscious bias. We seek to ensure accountability by tying executive compensation directly to the ability of our leaders to hire, promote and retain diverse talent, and we regularly measure the inclusiveness of our culture with a company-wide climate for inclusion survey.We began our formal programs a decade ago. Since then, IPG has seen dramatic improvements in the diversity of our workforce. In the U.S., IPG exceeded the U.S. ad industry’s representation rates for women and minorities for both professional level and management positions in 2015. An environment that encourages respect and trust is key to a creative business like ours, and IPG believes a competitive advantage comes with having a variety of perspectives and beliefs in its workforce.Acquisition StrategyA disciplined acquisition strategy, focused on high-growth capabilities and regions of the world, is one component of growing our services in today's rapidly-changing marketing services and media landscape. When an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, we have been opportunistic in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions that enhance our service offerings. We will continue to focus on digital and marketing services agencies throughout the world and on key international growth markets.In recent years, IPG has acquired agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in digital, mobile marketing, social media, healthcare communications and public relations, as well as agencies with full-service capabilities. These acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or specialist agencies. In 2015, IPG’s acquisitions included a full-service digital agency in the U.K., the Russian creative agencies previously owned by ADV and a media and planning buying agency with significant digital capabilities in Canada.Financial ObjectivesOur financial goals include competitive organic revenue growth and operating margin expansion, which we expect will further strengthen our balance sheet and total liquidity and increase value to our shareholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate, information technology and shared services, such as finance, human resources and legal. The improvements we have made and continue to make in our financial reporting and business information systems in recent years allow us more timely and actionable insights from our global operations. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage and grow our business. We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term shareholder value.4Financial Reporting SegmentsWe have two reportable segments, which are Integrated Agency Networks (“IAN”) and Constituency Management Group (“CMG”). IAN is comprised of McCann Worldgroup, FCB, MullenLowe Group, IPG Mediabrands, our digital specialist agencies and our domestic integrated agencies. CMG is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.Principal MarketsOur agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Our geographic revenue breakdown is listed below. % of Total Revenue 2015 2014 2013Domestic58.8% 55.5% 55.8%United Kingdom9.0% 9.1% 8.0%Continental Europe9.2% 10.7% 11.2%Asia Pacific12.0% 12.2% 12.2%Latin America5.0% 6.2% 6.5%Other6.0% 6.3% 6.3%For further information regarding revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical basis for each of the last three years, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Sources of RevenueOur revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated, and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.Revenues for the creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which we either retain in full or share with the client depending on the nature of the applicable services agreement.We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing, and corporate and brand identity services.In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients, as is customary in the advertising and marketing industries. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients, and in some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges . Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor.5Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work that is typically completed during the fourth quarter. Fee revenue recognized on a completed-contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31. Consolidated Revenues for the Three Months Ended 2015 2014 2013(Amounts in Millions)  % of Total   % of Total   % of TotalMarch 31$1,676.0 22.0% $1,637.5 21.7% $1,543.0 21.7%June 301,876.1 24.7% 1,851.4 24.6% 1,756.2 24.7%September 301,865.5 24.5% 1,841.1 24.4% 1,700.4 23.9%December 312,196.2 28.8% 2,207.1 29.3% 2,122.7 29.7% $7,613.8   $7,537.1   $7,122.3  See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our revenue recognition accounting policies.ClientsOur large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 19% and 20% of revenue in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our largest client accounted for approximately 4% and 5% of revenue for 2015 and 2014, respectively. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015, our largest client sectors (in alphabetical order) were auto and transportation, healthcare and tech and telecom. We represent several different clients, brands or divisions within each of these sectors in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency brands. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.PersonnelAs of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 49,200 people, of whom approximately 19,900 were employed in the United States. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.Available InformationOur annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com under the "Investor Relations" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee, Corporate Governance Committee and Finance Committee are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com in the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "About" section, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.6Item 1A.Risk FactorsWe are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to general economic and financial conditions, while others are more specific to us and the industry in which we operate. The following factors set out potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, could also have a negative impact on our business operations or financial condition. See also Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.•We operate in a highly competitive industry.The advertising and marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our agencies and media services compete with other agencies and other providers of creative, marketing or media services, to maintain existing client relationships and to win new business. Our competitors include not only other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies, but also smaller entities that operate in local or regional markets as well as new forms of market participants.The client’s perception of the quality of our agencies’ creative work and its relationships with key personnel at the Company or our agencies are important factors that affect our competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis and across a range of services may also be an important competitive consideration. On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is its people, freedom of entry into the industry is almost unlimited, and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger competitor.•Clients may terminate or reduce their relationships with us on short notice.Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time, and we have won and lost client accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions. Our clients may choose to terminate their contracts, or reduce their relationships with us, on a relatively short time frame and for any reason. A relatively small number of clients contribute a significant portion of our revenue. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 19% of revenue in 2015. A substantial decline in a large client’s advertising and marketing spending, or the loss of a significant part of its business, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations.Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients’ policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest, or our own exclusivity arrangements with certain clients. These policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar services for competing products or companies.•Our results of operations are highly susceptible to unfavorable economic conditions.We are exposed to risks associated with weak regional or global economic conditions and increased disruption in the financial markets. The global economy continues to be volatile. Uncertainty about the strength of the global economy generally, or economic conditions in certain regions, and a degree of caution on the part of some marketers, continue to have an effect on the demand for advertising and marketing communication services. Our industry can be affected more severely than other sectors by an economic downturn and can recover more slowly than the economy in general. In the past, some clients have responded to weak economic and financial conditions by reducing their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. This pattern may recur in the future. Furthermore, unexpected revenue shortfalls can result in misalignments of costs and revenues, resulting in a negative impact to our operating margins. If our business is significantly adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions, the negative impact on our revenue could pose a challenge to our operating income and cash generation from operations.•We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel.Our employees, including creative, digital, research, media and account specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most valuable assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to identify and develop the appropriate talent and to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award and other factors which may be beyond our control. In addition, the advertising and marketing services industry is characterized by a high degree of employee mobility. If we were to fail to attract key personnel or lose them to competitors or clients, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.7•If our clients experience financial distress, or seek to change or delay payment terms, it could negatively affect our own financial position and results.We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and if these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of intangible assets, credit facility covenant violations and reduced liquidity.Furthermore, in most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients. The amounts involved substantially exceed our revenues and primarily affect the level of accounts receivable, expenditures billable to clients, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges only after we have received funds from our clients. However, if clients are unable to pay for commitments that we have entered into on their behalf, or if clients seek to significantly delay or otherwise alter payment terms, there could be an adverse effect on our working capital, which would negatively impact our operating cash flow.•International business risks could adversely affect our operations.We are a global business, with agencies located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Operations outside the United States represent a significant portion of our revenues, approximately 41% in 2015. These operations are exposed to risks that include local legislation, currency variation, exchange control restrictions and difficult social, political or economic conditions. We also must comply with applicable U.S., local and other international anti-corruption laws, export controls and economic sanctions, which can be complex and stringent, in all jurisdictions where we operate. Failure to comply or to implement business practices that sufficiently prevent corruption could result in significant remediation expense and expose us to significant civil and criminal penalties and reputational harm. In developing countries or regions, we may face further risks, such as slower receipt of payments, nationalization, social and economic instability, currency repatriation restrictions and undeveloped or inconsistently enforced commercial laws. These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and effectively manage our operations in those countries.In addition, because a significant portion of our business is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Argentine Peso, Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Chilean Peso, Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen and South African Rand, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and such currencies, including the persistent strength of the U.S. Dollar in recent periods, may adversely affect our financial results.•We are subject to industry regulations and other legal or reputational risks that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our performance or financial condition.Our industry is subject to government regulation and other governmental action, both domestic and foreign. Advertisers and consumer groups may challenge advertising through legislation, regulation, judicial actions or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public welfare. Our business is also subject to specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements applicable to advertising for certain products. Existing and proposed laws and regulations, in particular in the European Union and the United States, concerning user privacy, use of personal information and on-line tracking technologies could affect the efficacy and profitability of internet-based and digital marketing. Legislators, agencies and other governmental units may also continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products, such as alcohol or tobacco, and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising, which, if successful, may hinder our ability to accomplish our clients’ goals and have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and, consequently, on our revenues. Furthermore, we could suffer reputational risk as a result of governmental or legal action or from undertaking work that may be challenged by consumer groups or considered controversial.•We face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments.We regularly undertake acquisitions and other investments that we believe will enhance our service offerings to our clients. These transactions can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. While our evaluation of any potential acquisition includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. Though we typically structure our acquisitions to provide for future contingent purchase payments that are based on the future performance of the acquired entity, our forecasts of the investment’s future performance also factor into the initial consideration. When actual financial results differ, our returns on the investment could be adversely affected.We may also experience difficulty integrating new employees, businesses, assets or systems into our organization, including with respect to our internal policies and required controls. We may face reputational and legal risks in situations where we have a significant minority investment but limited control over the investment's operations. Furthermore, it may take longer than 8anticipated to realize the expected benefits from these transactions, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all. Talent is among our most valuable assets, and we also may not realize the intended benefits of a transaction if we fail to retain targeted personnel. Acquisition and integration activity may also divert management’s attention and other corporate resources from other business needs. If we fail to realize the intended advantages of any given investment or acquisition, or if we do not identify or correctly measure the associated risks and liabilities, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.•We rely extensively on information technology systems and could face cybersecurity risks.We rely extensively and increasingly on information technologies and infrastructure to manage our business, including digital storage of marketing strategies and client information, developing new business opportunities and digital products and processing business transactions. The incidence of malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks, computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks or other malicious activities is on the rise worldwide. Power outages, equipment failure, natural disasters (including extreme weather), terrorist activities or human error may also affect our systems and result in disruption of our services or loss or improper disclosure of personal data, business information, including intellectual property, or other confidential information. We operate in many respects on a decentralized basis, with a large number of agencies and legal entities, and the resulting size, diversity and disparity of our technology systems and complications in implementing standardized technologies and procedures could increase our potential vulnerability to such breakdowns, malicious intrusions or attacks.Likewise, data privacy breaches, as well as improper use of social media, by employees and others may pose a risk that sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information, strategic plans and trade secrets, could be exposed to third parties or to the general public. We operate worldwide, and the legal rules governing data transfers are often complex, conflicting, unclear or ever-changing. We also utilize third parties, including third-party “cloud” computing services, to store, transfer or process data, and system failures or network disruptions or breaches in the systems of such third parties could adversely affect our reputation or business.Any such breaches or breakdowns could expose us to legal liability, be expensive to remedy, result in a loss of our or our clients’ or vendors’ proprietary information and damage our reputation. Efforts to develop, implement and maintain security measures are costly, may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated.•Our earnings would be adversely affected if we were required to recognize asset impairment charges or increase our deferred tax valuation allowances.We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill, other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability annually or whenever there is an indication that they are impaired or not realizable. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance.As of December 31, 2015, we have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including approximately $3.6 billion of goodwill. Future events, including our financial performance, market valuation of us or market multiples of comparable companies, loss of a significant client’s business or strategic decisions, could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments may have become impaired. Any significant impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized. For further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as our sensitivity analysis of our valuation of these assets, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.•We may not be able to meet our performance targets and milestones.From time to time, we communicate to the public certain targets and milestones for our financial and operating performance that are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance. They should not be understood as predictions or guidance about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any target or milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them. See Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.•Our financial condition could be adversely affected if our available liquidity is insufficient.We maintain a $1 billion committed credit facility to increase our financial flexibility (the “Credit Agreement”). If credit under the Credit Agreement were unavailable or insufficient, our liquidity could be adversely affected. The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, and events like a material economic downturn could adversely affect our ability to comply with them. For example, compliance with the financial covenants would be more difficult to achieve if we were to experience substantially lower revenues, a substantial increase in client defaults or sizable asset impairment charges. If we were unable to comply with any of 9the financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, we could be required to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders, and our costs under the Credit Agreement could increase. If we were unable to obtain a necessary amendment or waiver, the Credit Agreement could be terminated, and any outstanding amounts could be subject to acceleration. Furthermore, if our business or financial needs lead us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to access any new sources of liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. For further discussion of our liquidity profile and outlook, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.•Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us.Because ratings are an important factor influencing our ability to access capital and the terms of any new indebtedness, including covenants and interest rates, we could be adversely affected if our credit ratings were downgraded or if they were significantly weaker than those of our competitors. Our clients and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity.•The costs of compliance with sustainability or other social responsibility laws, regulations or policies, including client-driven policies and standards, could adversely affect our business.Although as a non-manufacturing service business we generally are not directly impacted by current laws and regulations with respect to climate change and other sustainability concerns, we could incur related costs indirectly through our clients. Increasingly our clients request that we comply with their own social responsibility, sustainability or other business policies or standards, which may be more restrictive than current laws and regulations, before they commence, or continue, doing business with us. Our compliance with these policies and related certification requirements could be costly, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business relationships or reputation. Further, if clients’ costs are adversely affected by climate change or related laws and regulations, this could negatively impact their spending on our advertising and marketing services. We could also face increased prices from our own suppliers that face climate change-related costs and that seek to pass on their increased costs to their customers.Item 1B