 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A. Additional geographic data is provided in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.BacklogOur approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at December 31, was as follows:In millions 2015 2014Climate $1,517.3 $1,499.3Industrial 574.0 489.6Total $2,091.3 $1,988.9These backlog figures are based on orders received. While the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision and deferral, and to a lesser extent cancellation or termination. We expect to ship substantially all the December 31, 2015 backlog during 2016.Environmental MattersWe continue to be dedicated to an environmental program to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state authorities. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.For a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 6Table of ContentsAsbestos Related MattersCertain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. None of our existing or previously-owned businesses were a producer or manufacturer of asbestos.See also the discussion under Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and Part II, Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Contingent Liabilities," as well as further detail in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 45,000 people throughout the world.Available InformationWe file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Board of Directors of the Company has also adopted and posted in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees. The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference in this report. 7Table of ContentsExecutive Officers of the RegistrantThe following is a list of executive officers of the Company as of February 12, 2016.Name and Age  Date ofService asan ExecutiveOfficer Principal Occupation andOther Information for Past Five YearsMichael W. Lamach (52)  2/16/2004 Chairman of the Board (since June 2010) and Chief Executive Officer (since February 2010); President and Chief Operating Officer (2009-2010); Senior Vice President and President, Trane Commercial Systems (2008-2009); Senior Vice President and President, Security Technologies (2004-2008)     Susan K. Carter (57) 10/2/2013  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since October 2013); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, KBR Inc. (a global engineering, construction and services business), (2009-2013);  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Lennox International Inc. (a heating, air conditioning and refrigeration company), (2004 to 2009)     Marcia J. Avedon (54) 2/7/2007 Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Corporate Affairs (since June 2013); Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Communications (2007 - 2013)     Paul A. Camuti (54) 8/1/2011 Senior Vice President, Innovation and Chief Technology Officer (since August 2011); President, Smart Grid Applications, Siemens Energy, Inc. (an energy technology subsidiary of Siemens Corporation) (2010 -2011); President, Research Division, Siemens Corporation (a diversified global technology company) (2009 - 2010); President and Chief Executive Officer, Siemens Corporate Research, Inc. (the research subsidiary of Siemens Corporation) (2005 - 2009)      Maria C. Green (63) 11/2/2015 Senior Vice President and General Counsel (since November 2015); Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Illinois Tool Works Inc. (a global manufacturer of a diversified range of industrial products and equipment), (2012-2015); Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary, Illinois Tool Works Inc. (2011-2012)     Gary S. Michel (53) 8/1/2011 Senior Vice President and President, Residential HVAC (since December 2013); Senior Vice President and President, Residential Solutions (2011-2013); President and Chief Executive Officer, Club Car (2007 - 2011)     Didier Teirlinck (59) 6/4/2008 Executive Vice President, Climate Segment (since December 2013); Senior Vice President and President, Climate Solutions (2009-2013); President, Climate Control Technologies (2008-2009); President, Climate Control Europe (2005-2008)     Keith A. Sultana (46)  10/12/2015 Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Integrated Supply Chain (since October 2015); Vice President, Global Procurement (January 2015 to October 2015); Vice President, Global Integrated Supply Chain (GISC) for Climate Solutions (2010 to 2014)     Robert G. Zafari (57) 7/1/2010 Executive Vice President, Industrial Segment (since December 2013); Senior Vice President and President, Industrial Technologies (2010-2013); President, TCS and Climate Solutions EMEIA (2009-2010); President, Security Technologies ESA (2007-2008)     Christopher J. Kuehn (43) 6/1/2015 Vice President and Controller (since June 2015);  Vice President and Corporate Controller, Whirlpool Corporation (a global manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances), (2012-2015); Vice President, Global CFO Thermal Equipment and Services Segment, SPX Corporation (a global supplier of infrastructure equipment platforms in heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), (2008-2012)No family relationship exists between any of the above-listed executive officers of the Company. All officers are elected to hold office for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified. 8Table of ContentsItem 1A.    RISK FACTORSOur business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. We face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. You should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our global operations subject us to economic risks. Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including Europe, China, Brazil, Venezuela, Africa, India, Argentina, Mexico and Russia. These activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including:•changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints;•limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings;•sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries;•imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas;•difficulty in staffing and managing global operations;•difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems;•national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and•economic downturns, slowing economic growth and social and political instability.These risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.We face significant competition in the markets that we serve and our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services.The markets that we serve are highly competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. There has been consolidation and new entrants within our industries and there may be future consolidation and new entrants which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the competitive landscape in which we operate. Due to our global footprint we are competing worldwide with large companies and with smaller, local operators who may have customer, regulatory or economic advantages in the geographies in which they are located. In addition, we must develop and commercialize new products and services in a rapidly changing technological and business environment in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. The development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources and an anticipation of the impact of new technologies and the ability to compete with others who may have superior resources. We cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. Investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. We also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by our current and future markets.  Failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by these markets could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The capital and credit markets are important to our business.Instability in U.S. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. In particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategies. Our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. Limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. 9Table of ContentsCurrency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. See Part II Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk." We have operations throughout the world that manufacture and sell products in various international markets. As a result, we are exposed to movements in exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar as well as against other currencies throughout the world.Many of our non-U.S. operations have a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar, and their results are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. Therefore, our reported results will be higher or lower depending on the weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the respective foreign currency. We use derivative instruments to hedge those material exposures that cannot be naturally offset. The instruments utilized are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. To minimize the risk of counter party non-performance, derivative instrument agreements are made only through major financial institutions with significant experience in such derivative instruments.We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business or the business operations of previously-owned entities. Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, product liability and asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against the total aggregate amount of losses sustained as a result of such proceedings and contingencies. As required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other events could affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners.We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. We cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock.We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are supported by third party vendors, to manage and operate our business. We are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. If these systems cease to function properly, if these systems experience security breaches or disruptions or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Security breaches or disruptions of our technology systems, infrastructure or products could negatively impact our business and financial results.Our information technology systems and infrastructure and technology embedded in certain of our control products may be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. It is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly result in security breaches or disruptions. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly changing and evolving. Despite having instituted security policies and business continuity plans, and implementing and regularly reviewing and updating processes and procedures  10Table of Contentsto protect against unauthorized access, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. Our systems, networks and certain of our control products may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information or the personally identifiable data relating to our customers, employees and business partners and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to a cybersecurity attack or disruptions resulting from such attacks.Commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Volatility in the prices of these commodities or the impact of inflationary increases could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Conversely, in the event there is deflation, we may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices. There can be no assurance that we would be able to reduce its costs (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. We do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility. While we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases.Additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. Higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. Consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets.At December 31, 2015, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $5.7 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. Changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of our business and impact overall results of operations. Demand for certain segments of our products and services is influenced by weather conditions. For instance, Trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the U.S. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. Therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of our business and impact overall results of operations.  11Table of ContentsGlobal climate change and related regulations could negatively affect our business.Refrigerants are essential to many of our products and there is a growing awareness and concern regarding global warming potential of such materials. As such, national, regional and international regulations and policies are being considered to curtail their use. As we begin to see regulations impeding the use of the current class of widely used refrigerants we are planning for, and managing transitions to, sustainable solutions. We have committed to increase energy efficiency and reduce our climate impact with operational and product-related climate targets, including among other initiatives: (i) 50 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions of our products for customers by 2020 and lower global warming potential alternatives across our portfolio by 2030; (ii) $500 million investment in product-related research and development from 2015-2020 to fund the long-term reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; and (iii) 35 percent reduction in the greenhouse gas footprint of our office buildings, manufacturing facilities and fleet by 2020. While we are committed to pursuing these sustainable solutions, there can be no assurance that our commitments will be successful, that our products will be accepted by the market or that economic returns will match the investment that we are making in new product development. Concerns regarding global climate change may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate global warming and these regulations could mandate even more restrictive standards than the voluntary commitments that we have made or require such changes on a more accelerated timeframe. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. Such regulatory uncertainty extends to future incentives for energy efficient buildings and vehicles and costs of compliance, which may impact the demand for our products, obsolescence of our products and our results of operations.In addition, to the extent climate change influences weather patterns, such changes could also disrupt our operations by causing business interruptions or by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. These factors may impact our decisions to construct new facilities or maintain existing facilities in areas most prone to physical climate risks.Weakness in the commercial and residential construction markets may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.Our commercial and residential HVAC businesses, which collectively represent 61% of our net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets. Weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. Decrease in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. 12Table of ContentsOur business strategy includes acquiring companies, entering into joint ventures and making investments that complement our existing businesses. We may not identify acquisition or joint venture candidates at the same rate as the past. Acquisitions, joint ventures and investments that we identify could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results.We continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses and product lines, joint ventures and investments with the potential to strengthen our industry position, enhance our existing set of product and services offerings or grow revenues, earnings and cash flow. There can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable candidates in the future, that we will consummate these transactions at rates similar to the past or that completed transactions will be successful. Acquisitions, joint ventures and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such transactions involve numerous other risks, including:•diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; •difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; •difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; •inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; •potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of either acquired businesses or our business; •assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses; •dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and•in the case of joint ventures and other investments, interests that diverge from those of our partners without the ability to direct the management and operations of the joint venture or investment in the manner we believe most appropriate.It may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. Any acquisitions, joint ventures or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such transactions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges.Our operations are subject to regulatory risks.Our U.S. and non-U.S. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including among others, laws related to the environment and health and safety. We have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Any violations of applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. Changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. Altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. The U.S. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside of the U.S. or have reincorporated outside of the U.S or may take other actions negatively impacting such companies. If we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations, interpretations of applicable laws and regulations, or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted.Risks Relating to our Past Spin-off TransactionIn December  2013, we completed the spin-off of our former commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders (the spin-off) pursuant to which each shareholder as of the record date for the spin-off received one ordinary share of Allegion, plc (Allegion) for every three Ingersoll-Rand plc ordinary shares. Allegion is now an independent public company.  This spin-off exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. In addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the spin-off and subsequent to the spin-off will be realized.If the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders as of the time of the distribution that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and/or Allegion could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.We received a ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of Allegion plc’s ordinary shares, together with certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under  13Table of ContentsSections 355 and 368(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), with the result that we and our shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the “IRS Ruling”). The IRS Ruling also provides that specified internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the Code. In addition, we received opinions from the law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP substantially to the effect that specified requirements, including certain requirements that the IRS will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax-free treatment have been satisfied, such that the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes and certain other matters relating to the distribution, including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution, will receive tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. The IRS Ruling and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and Allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the IRS Ruling and the opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in shares or asset ownership after the distribution. A legal opinion represents the tax adviser’s best legal judgment and is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. In addition, the opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the distribution, and/or internal transactions, ultimately is determined to be taxable, we or Allegion could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods.Furthermore, if, notwithstanding receipt of the IRS Ruling and opinions, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each shareholder subject to U.S. federal income tax who received shares of Allegion in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Allegion shares received. That distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our then-current and accumulated earnings and profits. Any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. Under the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement between us and Allegion executed in connection with the spin-off, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us or Allegion, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or Allegion as a result thereof. If such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or Allegion, then Allegion would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or Allegion as a result of such determination. Such tax amounts could be significant. If Allegion were to default in its obligation to us to pay such taxes, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities. To the extent we are responsible for any liability under the Tax Matters Agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. If the distribution is determined to be taxable for Irish tax purposes, significant Irish tax liabilities may arise. We received an opinion of the Irish Revenue regarding the Irish tax consequences of the distribution to the effect that certain reliefs and exemptions for corporate reorganizations apply. In addition to obtaining the opinion from Irish Revenue, we also received opinions from the law firm of Arthur Cox confirming the applicability of the relevant exemptions and reliefs to the distribution as well as received opinions from other external advisers that certain internal transactions will not trigger Irish tax costs as well. These opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and Allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the opinions, Irish Revenue could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions do not qualify for the relevant exemptions or reliefs if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. A legal opinion represents the tax adviser’s best legal judgment and is not binding on Irish Revenue or the courts and Irish Revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. In addition, the legal opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the distribution ultimately is determined not to fall within certain exemptions or reliefs, the distribution could result in certain of our shareholders having an Irish tax liability as a result of the distribution, or we or Allegion could incur Irish tax liabilities. To the extent we are responsible for any such liability under the Tax Matters Agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. Risks Relating to Our Past Reorganizations We effected a corporate reorganization in December 2001 to become a Bermuda company (the Bermuda Reorganization) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in July 2009 to become an Irish public limited company. These reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. In addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized.  14Table of ContentsChanges in tax or other laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under U.S. or non-U.S.  laws or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. The realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax or other laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the U.S. or non-U.S. tax or other governmental authorities. From time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted or implemented could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, certain U.S. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a U.S. resident for U.S. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. There are other U.S. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. In addition, other U.S. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our U.S. subsidiaries to our non-U.S. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. Moreover, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has released proposals to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting, such that tax laws in countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely impact us.  We cannot predict the outcome of any of these potential changes in any jurisdiction. While we monitor proposals and other developments that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals or regulatory changes are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax or other laws is challenged and determined to be incorrect. In particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the Ireland Reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation.While our U.S. operations are subject to U.S. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-U.S. operations are generally not subject to U.S. tax other than withholding taxes. The IRS or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not controlled foreign corporations (CFC) within the meaning of the U.S. tax laws. A contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by U.S. persons, could also potentially cause U.S. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-U.S. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-U.S. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-U.S. subsidiaries) were a CFC. In addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on CFC shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. Treatment of us or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries as a CFC could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.The inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. The United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on U.S. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. In addition, Irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. Also, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. Under Irish law, we must have authority from our shareholders to issue any shares, including shares that are part of the company’s authorized but unissued share capital. In addition, unless otherwise authorized by its shareholders, when an Irish company issues shares for cash to new shareholders, it is required first to offer those  15Table of Contentsshares on the same or more favorable terms to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis. If we are unable to obtain these authorizations from our shareholders, or are otherwise limited by the terms of our authorizations, our ability to issue shares or otherwise raise capital could be adversely affected.Dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, we are required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. In the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the United States will not be subject to Irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to Irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain Irish dividend withholding tax forms. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. Dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to Irish income tax. Dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to Irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in IR-Ireland. Our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Ingersoll Rand plc. Item 1B