 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A.BacklogOur approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at December 31, was as follows: In millions 2013 2012Climate $1,342.7 $1,460.2Industrial 517.4 481.1Total $1,860.1 $1,941.3These backlog figures are based on orders received. While the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. We expect to ship substantially all the December 31, 2013 backlog during 2014.Environmental MattersWe continue to be dedicated to an environmental program to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state authorities. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.We incurred $(0.5) million, $3.1 million, and $1.2 million of expenses during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $47.9 million and $55.6 million, respectively. Of these amounts $42.1 million and $41.2 million, respectively, relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us. Our total current environmental reserve at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $13.5 million and $18.0 million, respectively. Given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain.For a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters as well as Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Asbestos Related MattersCertain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims have been filed against either Ingersoll-Rand Company (IR-New Jersey) or Trane U.S. Inc. (Trane) and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by IR-New Jersey or Trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. Neither IR-New Jersey nor Trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers.We incurred net costs after insurance recoveries of $56.2 million, $7.8 million, and $16.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, related to the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims. Of these amounts, $55.8 million, $17.9 million and $14.5 million for the years ended  December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, relate to discontinued operations. Our total liability for asbestos-related matters and our total asset for probable asbestos-related insurance recoveries were $846.2 million and $321.8 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2013 and $879.5 million and $320.3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. Our total current liability for asbestos-related matters and our total current asset for probable asbestos- 6Table of Contentsrelated insurance recoveries was $69.1 million and $22.3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2013 and $69.1 million and $22.5 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2012.See also the discussion under Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters as well as further detail in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 42,000 people throughout the world.Available InformationWe file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov.In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Board of Directors of the Company has also adopted and posted in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees. The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference in this report.CertificationsNew York Stock Exchange Annual Chief Executive Officer CertificationThe Company’s Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO Certification as the Company’s compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing standards required by Section 303A.12 of the New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards.Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 CertificationThe certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 1A.    RISK FACTORSOur business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks set forth below are those we consider most significant. We face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations. You should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our global operations subject us to economic risks. Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including Europe, China, Brazil, Venezuela, Africa, India, Argentina and Mexico. These activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including:•changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints;•limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings;•sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries;•imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas;•difficulty in staffing and managing global operations;•difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems; 7Table of Contents•national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and•economic downturns, slowing economic growth and social and political instability.These risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services.We must develop and commercialize new products and services in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. The development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources. We cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. Investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. We also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market. Failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by the market could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.The capital and credit markets are important to our business.Instability in U.S. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. In particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategies. Our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. Limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers.Currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. See Part II Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. More than 40% of our 2013 net revenues were derived outside the U.S., and we expect sales to non-U.S. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. Although we enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time may, in some instances, have a material impact on our results of operations. Because we do not hedge against all of our currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. We also translate assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies into U.S. dollars for our Consolidated Financial Statements based on the applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies could have a material impact on the value of these items in our Consolidated Financial Statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business or the business operations of previously-owned entities. Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, product liability and asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against the total aggregate amount of losses sustained as a result of such proceedings and contingencies. As required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other events could affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 8Table of ContentsOur reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners.We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. We cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any violations of law or improper conduct could damage our reputation and, depending on the circumstances, subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock.We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are supported by third party vendors, to manage and operate our business. We are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations. If these systems cease to function properly or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Security breaches or disruptions of our technology infrastructure or products could negatively impact our business and financial results.Our information technology infrastructure and technology embedded in certain of our control products may be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions. Despite instituting security policies and business continuity plans, our systems, networks and certain of our control products may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility. While we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases.Additionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. Higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. Consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Our operational excellence efforts may not achieve the improvements we expect.We utilize a number of tools, such as Lean Six Sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity. Implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and there is no assurance that all of our planned operational excellence projects will be fully implemented or, if implemented, will realize the expected improvements.We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets.At December 31, 2013, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $5.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized.  9Table of ContentsChanges in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of the Company's business and impact overall results of operations. Demand for certain segments of the Company's products and services is influenced by weather conditions. For instance, Trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the U.S. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. Therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of the Company's business and impact overall results of operations. Weakness in the commercial and residential construction markets may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.Our commercial and residential HVAC businesses, which collectively represent 61% of our net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets. Weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services. Decrease in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow.Our operations are subject to regulatory risks.Our U.S. and non-U.S. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including among others, laws related to the environment and health and safety. We have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. Altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions. If we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted.Risks Relating to our Spin-off of AllegionWe may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve subsequent to the spin-off. In connection with our spin-off in December 2013 of Allegion, which now owns our former commercial and residential security businesses, we anticipated certain financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our shareholders. In particular, we commenced certain operational excellence and other productivity and strategic initiatives following the spin-off intended to provide a greater focus on growth, and to reduce complexity and overhead cost. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated results of these actions on the scale that we expected, and the anticipated benefits subsequent to the spin-off, and those operational excellence and other productivity and strategic initiatives, may not be fully realized.If the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-off are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders as of the time of the distribution that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and/or Allegion could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.We have received a ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of Allegion plc’s ordinary shares, together with certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under Sections 355 and 368(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), with the result that we and our shareholders will not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares (the “IRS Ruling”). The IRS Ruling also provides that specified internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the Code. In addition, we have received opinions from the law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP substantially to the effect that specified requirements, including certain requirements that the IRS will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax-free treatment have been satisfied, such that the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes and certain other matters relating to the distribution, including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution, will receive tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. The IRS Ruling and the opinions rely on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and Allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the IRS Ruling and the opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in shares or asset ownership after the distribution. A legal opinion represents the tax adviser’s best legal judgment and is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. In  10Table of Contentsaddition, the opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the distribution, and/or internal transactions, ultimately is determined to be taxable, we or Allegion could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods.Furthermore, if, notwithstanding receipt of the IRS Ruling and opinions, the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each shareholder subject to U.S. federal income tax who received shares of Allegion in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Allegion shares received. That distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our then-current and accumulated earnings and profits. Any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. Under the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement between us and Allegion executed in connection with the spin-off, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us or Allegion, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us or Allegion as a result thereof. If such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us or Allegion, then Allegion would be responsible for any taxes imposed on us or Allegion as a result of such determination. Such tax amounts could be significant. If Allegion were to default in its obligation to us to pay such taxes, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of tax liabilities. To the extent we are responsible for any liability under the Tax Matters Agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances as a result of the distribution because of restrictions relating to U.S. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions.We may be deterred from engaging in significant equity transactions in order to preserve, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution. Even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, it may result in corporate-level taxable gain to us and certain of our affiliates under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares or Allegion’s shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. Any acquisitions or issuances of our shares or Allegion’s shares within two years after the distribution will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Allegion may be able to rebut that presumption. As a result, we may not pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that would otherwise maximize the value of our business.If the distribution is determined to be taxable for Irish tax purposes, significant Irish tax liabilities may arise. We have received an opinion of the Irish Revenue regarding the Irish tax consequences of the distribution to the effect that certain reliefs and exemptions for corporate reorganizations apply. In addition to obtaining the opinion from Irish Revenue, we have also received opinions from the law firm of Arthur Cox confirming the applicability of the relevant exemptions and reliefs to the distribution as well as received opinions from other external advisers that certain internal transactions will not trigger Irish tax costs as well. These opinions rely on certain facts and assumptions and certain representations and undertakings from us and Allegion regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the opinions, Irish Revenue could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions do not qualify for the relevant exemptions or reliefs if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. A legal opinion represents the tax adviser’s best legal judgment and is not binding on Irish Revenue or the courts and Irish Revenue or the courts may not agree with the legal opinion. In addition, the legal opinion is based on current law and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. If the distribution ultimately is determined not to fall within certain exemptions or reliefs, the distribution could result in certain of our shareholders having an Irish tax liability as a result of the distribution, or we or Allegion could incur Irish tax liabilities. To the extent we are responsible for any such liability under the Tax Matters Agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. Risks Relating to Our Past Reorganizations We effected a corporate reorganization in December 2001 to become a Bermuda company (the Bermuda Reorganization) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in July 2009 to become an Irish public limited company. These reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. In addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. Changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under U.S. or non-U.S. tax laws or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes.  11Table of ContentsThe realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the U.S. tax authorities or non-U.S. tax authorities. From time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, recent U.S. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a U.S. resident for U.S. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. There are other recent U.S. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. Moreover, other U.S. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our U.S. subsidiaries to our non-U.S. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. While we monitor proposals that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax law is challenged and determined to be incorrect. In particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the Ireland Reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation.While our U.S. operations are subject to U.S. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-U.S. operations are generally not subject to U.S. tax other than withholding taxes. The IRS or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not controlled foreign corporations (CFC) within the meaning of the U.S. tax laws. A contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by U.S. persons, could also potentially cause U.S. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-U.S. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-U.S. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-U.S. subsidiaries) were a CFC. In addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on CFC shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. Treatment of us or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries as a CFC could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.As described further in “Legal Proceedings,” we have received several notices from the IRS containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with audits of the 2001-2006 tax years. The IRS has not contested the validity of our reincorporation in Bermuda in any of these notices. We have and intend to continue to vigorously contest all of these proposed adjustments.Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for these matters and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. As we move forward to resolve these matters with the IRS, the reserves established may be adjusted. Although we continue to contest the IRS's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. If the IRS's position with respect to 2002-2006 is ultimately sustained, we would be required to record additional charges and the resulting liability will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Although we expect them to do so, at this time the IRS has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2006 as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. It is unclear how the IRS will apply its position to subsequent years or whether the IRS will take a similar position in future audits with respect to intercompany debt instruments not outstanding in prior years.The inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. The U.S. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside of the U.S. or have reincorporated outside of the U.S. For instance, the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended, includes a provision that prohibits “inverted domestic corporations” and their subsidiaries from entering into contracts with the Department of Homeland Security. In addition, the State of California adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain non-U.S. chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. More recently, the 2008-2014 Consolidated Appropriations Acts prohibit any federal government agency from using funds appropriated by Congress for fiscal years 2008-2014 to pay an inverted domestic corporation or any of its subsidiaries for work performed or products provided under certain federal contracts (“Affected Contracts”). Although the amount of monies already  12Table of Contentspaid to us or to be paid to us under the Affected Contracts is not material to the Company, we cannot provide any assurance that the impact of future actions taken by the government in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. In addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct business in the United States and in other countries but have changed their place of incorporation to another country. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. The United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on U.S. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. In addition, Irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. Also, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. Under Irish law, these authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved. Recently, certain proxy advisory firms are taking the position that Irish companies should limit these authorizations in terms of the number of authorized but unissued shares that can be issued without shareholder approval, the number of shares that can be issued without pre-emptive rights and the duration of the authorizations. If we are required to limit these authorizations in order to obtain shareholder approval, we will be limited in our ability to issue shares in ways that U.S. companies are not limited and will need to renew the authorizations even more frequently than the five-year period provided under Irish law.Dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, we are required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. In the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the United States will not be subject to Irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to Irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain Irish dividend withholding tax forms. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. Dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to Irish income tax. Dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to Irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in IR-Ireland. Our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in IR-Ireland. Item 1B