 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A.BacklogOur approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at December 31, was as follows: In millions 2012 2011Climate Solutions $1,444.6 $1,395.8Residential Solutions 49.1 42.8Industrial Technologies 481.1 489.5Security Technologies 159.6 135.1Total $2,134.4 $2,063.2These backlog figures are based on orders received. While the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. We expect to ship substantially all the  December 31, 2012 backlog during 2013.Environmental MattersWe continue to be dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state authorities. We have been also identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.We incurred $4.5 million, $3.1 million, and $1.0 million of expenses during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $65.9 million and $70.9 million, respectively.  Of these amounts $47.3 million and $51.3 million, respectively, relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us.  Our total current environmental reserve at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $22.2 million and $26.1 million, respectively. Given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain.For a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters as well as Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.7Table of ContentsAsbestos MattersCertain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in U.S. state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims have been filed against either Ingersoll-Rand Company (IR-New Jersey) or Trane U.S. Inc. (Trane) and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by IR-New Jersey or Trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. Neither IR-New Jersey nor Trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers.We incurred net costs after insurance recoveries of $4.4 million, $10.1 million, and $18.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, related to the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims.  Our total liability for asbestos-related matters and our total asset for probable asbestos-related insurance recoveries were $879.5 million and $320.3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2012 and $938.3 million and $322.4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011.  Our total current liability for asbestos-related matters and our total current asset for probable asbestos-related insurance recoveries was $69.1 million and $22.5 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2012 and $69.7 million and $23.5 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2011.See also the discussion under Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters as well as further detail in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 49,000 people throughout the world.Available InformationWe file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov.In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Board of Directors of the Company has also adopted and posted in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees. The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference in this report.CertificationsNew York Stock Exchange Annual Chief Executive Officer CertificationThe Company’s Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO Certification as the Company’s compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing standards required by Section 303A.12 of the New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards.Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 CertificationThe certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Item 1A.    RISK FACTORSOur business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows are subject to a number of risks that could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks set forth below are those we consider most significant.  We face other risks, however, that we do not currently perceive to be material but could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from our expectations.  You should evaluate all risks before you invest in our securities. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 8Table of ContentsOur global operations subject us to economic risks. Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including Europe, China, Brazil, Venezuela, Africa, India and Turkey. These activities are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: •changes in local laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints;•limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings;•sovereign debt crisis and currency instability in developed and developing countries;•imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas;•difficulty in staffing and managing global operations;•difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems;•national and international conflict, including war, civil disturbances and terrorist acts; and•economic downturns and social and political instability.These risks could increase our cost of doing business internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services.We must develop and commercialize new products and services in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business.  The development and commercialization of new products and services require a significant investment of resources.  We cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment.  Investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market.  We also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market.  Failure to develop new products and services that are accepted by the market could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.The capital and credit markets are important to our business.Instability in U.S. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long term credit requirements. In particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategy, including our new $2 billion share repurchase program and our commitment to refinance our short-term debt maturities and raise additional borrowings. Our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets.  Limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers.Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. See Part II Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. More than 40% of our 2012 net revenues were derived outside the U.S., and we expect sales to non-U.S. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues. Although we enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time may, in some instances, have a material impact on our results of operations. Because we do not hedge against all of our currency exposure, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. We also translate assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies  into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements based on the applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies could have a material impact on the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. 9Table of ContentsMaterial adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business. Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, asbestos-related matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. As required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other contingencies may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and we may be required to make additional material payments, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners.We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations.  We cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners.  Any improper conduct could damage our reputation and subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the market value of our stock.We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems. We rely extensively on information technology systems to manage and operate our business. We are also investing in new information technology systems that are designed to continue improving our operations.  If these systems cease to function properly or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.We currently rely on a single vendor for substantially all of our global information technology infrastructure and its failure to provide effective support for such infrastructure could negatively impact our business and financial results.We have outsourced substantially all of our global information technology infrastructure to a third-party service provider in order to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. The service provider has initiated arbitration proceedings against us regarding the terms, nature and performance of the information technology services agreement.  If the service provider does not perform or does not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected efficiencies and may have to incur additional costs to address failures in providing service by the service provider. Depending on the function involved, such non-performance, failure to perform effectively or failures of service may lead to business disruptions, processing inefficiencies or security breaches. Such disruptions, inefficiencies or breaches could negatively impact our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our information technology infrastructure is important to our business and data security breaches or disruptions of such infrastructure could negatively impact our business and financial results.Our information technology infrastructure is subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized security intrusions.  Despite instituting security policies and business continuity plans, our systems and networks may be vulnerable to system damage, malicious attacks from hackers, employee errors or misconduct, viruses, power and utility outages, and other catastrophic events that could cause significant harm to our business by negatively impacting our business operations, compromising the security of our proprietary information and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation.  Such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Commodity shortages and price increases and higher energy prices could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on suppliers to secure commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility.  While we use fixed price contracts to mitigate this exposure, we expect any future hedging activity to seek to minimize near-term volatility of the commodity prices which would not protect us from long-term commodity price increases.10Table of ContentsAdditionally, we are exposed to large fluctuations in the price of petroleum-based fuel due to the instability of current market prices. Higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products, and supplying services, to customers around the world. Consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply, could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising fuel prices and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Our operational excellence efforts may not achieve the improvements we expect.We utilize a number of tools, such as Lean Six Sigma, to improve operational efficiency and productivity.  Implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and there is no assurance that all of our planned operational excellence projects will be fully implemented or, if implemented, will realize the expected improvements.We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets.At December 31, 2012, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $6.1 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods recognized. Changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect certain segments of the Company's business and impact overall results of operations. Demand for certain segments of the Company's products and services is influenced by weather conditions. For instance, Trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the U.S. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. Therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of the Company's business and impact overall results of operations. Continued weakness in the commercial and residential construction markets may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.Our commercial and residential HVAC and security businesses, which collectively represent 66% of our net revenues, provide products and services to a wide range of markets, including significant sales to the commercial and residential construction markets.  Weakness in either or both of these construction markets may negatively impact the demand for our products and services.  Decrease in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow.Our operations are subject to regulatory risks.Our U.S. and non-U.S. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety.  We have made, and will be required to continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations.  Changes in current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services.  Altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services.  In addition, our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, fines or other sanctions.  If we are unable to effectively respond to changes to applicable laws and regulations or comply with existing and future laws and regulations, our competitive position, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted.If the distribution of WABCO's shares by Trane on July 31, 2007 were to fail to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), then Trane may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes. Trane received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) substantially to the effect that the distribution of WABCO shares to its shareholders qualified as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code. Trane also received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, LLP, at the time of the distribution, as to the tax-free nature of the transaction.  Moreover, in connection with our subsequent acquisition of Trane, we received an opinion of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett LLP, substantially to the effect that the distribution should continue to qualify as tax-free to Trane, WABCO and Trane shareholders under Section 355 and related provisions of the Code.  The ruling and opinions were based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the accuracy of certain factual representations and statements made by the Company, WABCO and Trane. In rendering its ruling, the IRS also relied on certain covenants that Trane and WABCO entered into, including the adherence to certain restrictions on WABCO's and Trane's future actions.11Table of ContentsNotwithstanding the private letter ruling or the opinions of counsel, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not later assert that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction.  If the WABCO distribution is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of WABCO's common stock distributed to the Trane shareholders over (ii) Trane's tax basis in such common stock. We have a Tax Sharing Agreement with WABCO under which WABCO would be responsible for all taxes imposed on Trane as a result of the distribution except where taxes are imposed as a result of actions taken after the distribution by Trane or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders.  If WABCO was unable to satisfy its obligations under the Tax Sharing Agreement or if Trane was unable to rely on the Tax Sharing Agreement for any reason, any potential liability arising from the distribution of WABCO's shares by Trane could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Proposed Spin-offThe proposed spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management and may have an adverse effect on us even if not completed. On December 10, 2012, we announced our plan to spin off our commercial and residential security businesses.  The proposed spin-off is subject to various conditions, is complex in nature and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions.  Completion of the spin-off will be contingent upon customary conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals, receipt of a ruling from the IRS as to the tax-free nature of the spin-off, as well as certain other matters relating to the spin-off, receipt of legal opinions, execution of intercompany agreements, effectiveness of appropriate filings with the SEC, and final approval of the transactions contemplated by the spin-off, as may be required under Irish law.  For these and other reasons, the spin-off transaction may not be completed as expected by the fourth calendar quarter of 2013, if at all.  Even if the spin-off is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we will be subject to certain risks and consequences, including the following:•Execution of the proposed spin-off will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our businesses and the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us. •Our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off.  •Some of our suppliers or customers may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with us or our commercial and residential security businesses, which could negatively affect revenues, earnings and cash flows of the Company and our commercial and residential security businesses.•We will be required to pay certain costs and expenses relating to the spin-off, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, whether or not it is completed.•We may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the spin-off. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and trading price. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off. Although we believe that separating our commercial and residential security businesses by means of the spin-off will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our shareholders, the spin-off may not provide the results on the scope or on the scale we anticipate, and the assumed benefits of the spin-off may not be fully realized. Accordingly, the spin-off might not provide us and our shareholders benefits or value in excess of the benefits and value that might have been created or realized had we retained the commercial and residential security businesses or undertaken another strategic alternative involving such businesses. If the proposed spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses is completed, the trading price of our ordinary shares will decline and may experience greater volatility. We expect the trading price of our ordinary shares immediately following the spin-off to be significantly lower than immediately prior to the spin-off because the trading price for our shares will no longer reflect the value of our commercial and residential security businesses. In addition, until the market has fully analyzed the Company's value without our commercial and residential security businesses, the price of our shares may experience greater volatility.If the proposed spin-off is completed, our shares may not match some holders' investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause investors to sell their shares.  Excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of our shares to decrease further following the completion of the proposed spin-off. 12Table of ContentsFollowing the spin-off, the value of your ordinary shares in the Company and the commercial and residential security businesses may collectively trade at an aggregate price less than that at which the Company's ordinary shares might trade had the spin-off not occurred. For a number of reasons, the ordinary shares of the Company and the commercial and residential security businesses that you may hold following the spin-off may collectively trade at a value significantly less than the price at which the Company's ordinary shares might have traded had the spin-off not occurred and we continued to own the commercial and residential security businesses.   These reasons include the future performance of the Company and the commercial and residential security businesses as separate, independent companies, and the future shareholder base and market for the Company's ordinary shares and the shares of our commercial and residential security businesses and the prices at which these shares individually trade.The proposed spin-off transaction could result in substantial tax liabilityWe will request a private letter ruling from the IRS substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the Code. Our receipt of the private letter ruling will be a condition to the completion of the spin-off. If the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution such as the spin-off satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Rather, the private letter ruling will be based on representations by us that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. The spin-off will also be conditioned on our receipt of one or more opinions of outside advisors, in form and substance satisfactory to us, substantially to the effect that, certain requirements, including requirements that the IRS will not rule on, necessary to obtain tax free treatment have been satisfied such that the spin-off and certain related transactions should qualify under Sections 355, 368 and other provisions of the Code. The opinion(s) will rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the commercial and residential security businesses and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such advisors in their opinion(s). The opinion(s) will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion(s) or that any such challenge would not prevail. If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion(s), the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each U.S. holder of our ordinary shares who receives shares of the commercial and residential security businesses in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of the new security company received. That distribution would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits.  Any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the applicable shareholder's tax basis in our ordinary shares with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. In addition, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion(s), if the spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction and/or certain related internal transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, we could incur a substantial tax liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Relating to Our Past Reorganizations We effected a corporate reorganization in December 2001 to become a Bermuda company (the Bermuda Reorganization) and a subsequent corporate reorganization in July 2009 to become an Irish public limited company. These reorganizations exposed us and our shareholders to the risks described below. In addition, we cannot be assured that all of the anticipated benefits of the reorganizations will be realized. Changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under U.S. or non-U.S. tax laws or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. The realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the U.S. tax authorities or non-U.S. tax authorities. From time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation has been introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, recent U.S. legislative proposals would broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a U.S. resident for U.S. tax purposes, which would significantly diminish the realization of any tax benefit related to our reorganizations. There are other recent U.S. legislative proposals that could modify or eliminate the tax deductibility of various currently deductible payments, which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. Moreover, other U.S. legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments by our U.S. subsidiaries to our non-U.S. affiliates, which could increase our tax liability. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. 13Table of ContentsWhile we monitor proposals that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax law is challenged and determined to be incorrect. In particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding the Ireland Reorganization, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments, or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation.While our U.S. operations are subject to U.S. tax, we believe that a significant portion of our non-U.S. operations are generally not subject to U.S. tax other than withholding taxes. The IRS or a court, however, may not concur with our conclusions including our determination that we, and a significant number of our foreign subsidiaries, are not currently controlled foreign corporations (CFC) within the meaning of the U.S. tax laws.  A contrary determination, which could also arise through significant future acquisitions of our stock by U.S. persons, could also potentially cause U.S. holders (direct, indirect or constructive owners) of 10% or more of our stock (or the voting stock of our non-U.S. subsidiaries) to include in their gross income their pro rata share of certain of our and our non-U.S. subsidiary income for the period during which we (and our non-U.S. subsidiaries) were a CFC.  In addition, gain (or a portion of such gain) realized on CFC shares sold by such shareholders may be treated as ordinary income depending on certain facts. Treatment of us or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries as a CFC could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.As described further in “Legal Proceedings”, we have received several notices from the IRS containing proposed adjustments to our tax filings in connection with an audit of the 2001-2002 tax years. The IRS has not contested the validity of our reincorporation in Bermuda in any of these notices.  We have and intend to continue to vigorously contest these proposed adjustments.Although the outcome of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, based upon an analysis of the merits of our position, we believe that we are adequately reserved for this matter and do not expect that the ultimate resolution will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.  As we move forward to resolve this matter with the IRS, the reserves established may be adjusted.  Although we continue to contest the IRS's position, there can be no assurance that we will be successful.  If the IRS's position with respect to 2002 is ultimately sustained it will have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Although we expect them to do so, at this time the IRS has not yet proposed any similar adjustments for years subsequent to 2002 as the federal income tax audits for those years are still in process or have not yet begun. It is unclear how the IRS will apply their position to subsequent years or whether the IRS will take a similar position with respect to other intercompany debt instruments.The inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our reorganizations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us. The U.S. federal government and various states and municipalities have enacted or may enact legislation intended to deny government contracts to U.S. companies that reincorporate outside of the U.S. or have reincorporated outside of the U.S. For instance, the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended, includes a provision that prohibits “inverted domestic corporations” and their subsidiaries from entering into contracts with the Department of Homeland Security. In addition, the State of California adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain non-U.S. chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. More recently, the 2008, 2009 and 2010 Consolidated Appropriations Acts prohibit any federal government agency from using funds appropriated by Congress for fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010 to pay an inverted domestic corporation or any of its subsidiaries for work performed or products provided under certain federal contracts (“Affected Contracts”). Although the amount of monies already paid to us or to be paid to us under the Affected Contracts is not material to the Company, we cannot provide any assurance that the impact of future actions taken by the government in this area will not be materially adverse to our operations. In addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct business in the United States and in other countries but have changed their place of incorporation to another country. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. The United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.  As such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on U.S. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws.  As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the 14Table of Contentscompany only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. In addition, Irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. Also, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory pre-emptive rights with respect to any particular allotment of shares. These authorizations must be renewed by the shareholders every five years and we cannot guarantee that these authorizations will always be approved. Dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, we are required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. In the majority of cases, shareholders resident in the United States will not be subject to Irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to Irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain Irish dividend withholding tax forms. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. Dividends received by our shareholders could be subject to Irish income tax. Dividends paid in respect of our shares will generally not be subject to Irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in IR-Ireland. Our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in IR-Ireland. Item 1B