. Risk Factors.  We face many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occur, we and our businesses, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Our current and potential investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" before deciding to invest in our securities.Risks Related to the Recall Transaction The integration of Recall will subject us to liabilities that may exist at Recall or may arise in connection with the consummation of the Recall Transaction. Our integration with Recall may pose special risks, including one-time write-offs or restructuring charges, unanticipated costs, and the loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that our integration with Recall will be accomplished effectively or in a timely manner. In addition, our integration with Recall will subject us to liabilities (including tax liabilities) that may exist at Recall or may arise in connection with the consummation of the Recall Transaction, some of which may be unknown. Although we and our advisors have conducted due diligence on the operations of Recall, there can be no guarantee that we are aware of all liabilities of Recall. These liabilities, and any additional risks and uncertainties related to the Recall Transaction not currently known to us or that we may currently deem immaterial or unlikely to occur, could negatively impact our future business, financial condition and results of operations. The price of our common stock and our results of operations after the Recall Transaction may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the price of our common stock and our results of operations. Recall's business is different in certain ways from ours, and our results of operations, as well as the price of our common stock after the Recall Transaction, may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the results of our operations and the price of our common stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly following the Recall Transaction, including as a result of factors over which we and Recall have no control. Current stockholders may not wish to continue to invest in us if the Recall Transaction is consummated or for other reasons may wish to dispose of some or all of their shares of our common stock. If, following the consummation of the Recall Transaction, there is selling pressure on our common stock that exceeds demand at the market price, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition, if the Recall Transaction is completed, the Recall shareholders will own a significant percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of the combined company, and they may determine not to hold their shares of our common stock following the Recall Transaction, which may result in additional pressure on the price of our common stock. We will incur significant transaction and combination-related costs in connection with the Recall Transaction. We and Recall expect to incur significant costs associated with the Recall Transaction and combining the operations of the two companies, some of which will be paid regardless of whether we are able to complete the Recall Transaction. In this regard, we expect to incur approximately $80.0 million of costs, including advisory and professional fees, to complete the Recall Transaction (“Recall Deal Close Costs”) and approximately $300.0 million of costs to integrate Recall with our existing operations, including moving, severance, facility upgrade, REIT conversion and system upgrade costs ("Recall Integration Costs").  Despite our current estimates, it is difficult to predict the amount of these costs, and we may incur additional unanticipated costs as a consequence of difficulties arising from efforts to integrate the companies.We will need additional debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, in order to consummate the Recall Transaction. We currently anticipate that we will need to raise additional debt financing to consummate the Recall Transaction. Such additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.  If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing and consummate the Recall Transaction, we may be subject to significant monetary or other damages under the Recall Agreement. The Recall Agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the Recall Transaction, and in certain instances requires payment of a reimbursement fee, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction to the Recall Transaction. While the Recall Agreement is in effect, subject to certain limited exceptions, we are prohibited from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or entering into certain transactions, such as a merger, sale of assets or other business combination, with any third party. As a result of these limitations, we may lose opportunities to enter into a more favorable transaction than the Recall Transaction. Moreover, under specified circumstances, we could be required to pay Recall a reimbursement fee of A$25.5 million in connection with the termination of the Recall Agreement. The reimbursement fee could deter a third party from proposing an alternative to the Recall Transaction. 12Table of ContentsThe Recall Transaction is subject to conditions to closing that could result in the Recall Transaction being delayed or not completed and the Recall Agreement can be terminated in certain circumstances, each of which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our future business and operations. Consummation of the Recall Transaction is subject to conditions, including, among others:•the approval by the Recall shareholders of the Recall Transaction; •the approval of the Scheme by the Federal Court of Australia, Sydney Registry (the “Sydney Federal Court”) (or such other competent court agreed by us and Recall); •the absence of any law, order or injunction that would prohibit, restrain or make illegal the Recall Transaction; •the receipt of regulatory approvals; •the approval for listing on the NYSE of our common stock to be issued in the Recall Transaction and the establishment of a secondary listing on the Australian Securities Exchange (the "ASX") to allow shareholders of Recall to trade our common stock via CHESS Depository Interests on the ASX; •the accuracy of the representations and warranties and compliance with the respective covenants of the parties, subject to specified materiality qualifiers; and •no events having occurred that would have a material adverse effect on Recall or us. In addition, we and Recall each has the right, in certain circumstances, to terminate the Recall Agreement. If the Recall Agreement is terminated or any of the conditions to closing are not satisfied and, where permissible, not waived, the Recall Transaction will not be completed. Failure to complete the Recall Transaction or any delay in the completion of the Recall Transaction or any uncertainty about the completion of the Recall Transaction may adversely affect the price of our common stock or have an adverse impact on our future business and operations. If the Recall Transaction is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Recall Transaction, we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:•negative reactions from the financial markets; •incurring and paying significant expenses in connection with the Recall Transaction, such as Recall Deal Costs and Recall Integration Costs; •paying a reimbursement fee of A$25.5 million if the Recall Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances; and •paying a reimbursement fee of A$76.5 million if the Recall Agreement is terminated due to our inability to obtain the necessary antitrust/competition approvals required to consummate the Recall Transaction. In addition, we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Recall Transaction or seeking to require us to perform our obligations under the Recall Agreement. The exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either Recall's share price or our stock price. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Recall Agreement, after the effective date of the Scheme and upon the completion of the Recall Transaction, each outstanding ordinary share of Recall will be transferred to us in exchange for the Australian dollar equivalent of US$0.50 in cash for each outstanding share of Recall common stock (the "Cash Supplement") as well as either (1) 0.1722 of a newly issued share of our common stock or (2) 8.50 Australian dollars less the Australian dollar equivalent of US$0.50 in cash for each Recall share (the "Cash Election"). The Cash Election is subject to a proration mechanism that will cap the total amount of cash paid to Recall shareholders electing the Cash Election at 225.0 million Australian dollars (the "Cash Election Cap"). The exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted for changes in the market price of either Recall shares or our shares. Changes in the price of our shares prior to completion of the Scheme may affect the market value that holders of Recall shares will receive on the date of the effective time for the Scheme. Share price changes may result from a variety of factors (many of which are beyond our or Recall's control). If the share price of our common stock increases before the closing of the Recall Transaction, Recall shareholders will receive shares of our common stock that have a market value that is greater than the current market value of such shares. Alternatively, if the share price of our common stock decreases before the closing of the Recall Transaction, Recall shareholders will receive shares of our common stock that have a market value that is less than the current market value of such shares. Therefore, because the exchange ratio is fixed, prior to the closing of the Recall Transaction, our stockholders and Recall shareholders cannot be sure of the market value of the share consideration that will be paid to Recall shareholders upon completion of the Recall Transaction. 13Table of ContentsObtaining required governmental and court approvals necessary to satisfy closing conditions may delay or prevent completion of the Recall Transaction or may impose material terms and conditions, including asset divestitures, which could negatively impact our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Recall Transaction.Completion of the Recall Transaction is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental authorizations, consents, orders or other approvals, including (i) approvals, clearances, filings or expiration or termination of waiting periods required in relation to the Recall Transaction under antitrust laws of Australia, Canada, the United States, and the United Kingdom and (ii) approval by the Sydney Federal Court (or such other competent court agreed to by us and Recall).  In the Recall Agreement, we agreed to offer, negotiate and agree to divestitures and/or similar restraints with respect to our or Recall’s businesses, services or assets, except that we are not required to agree to divestitures or similar restraints with respect to our assets or Recall’s records management businesses in the United States and Canada that, in the aggregate, generated more than US$30.0 million in revenues during the twelve-month period prior to the date of the Recall Agreement (the “Divestiture Threshold”).  No assurance can be given that the antitrust/competition approvals will be obtained. In the event that the Recall Agreement is terminated as a result of the failure to obtain the antitrust/competition approvals, subject to certain limited exceptions, we will be obligated to pay Recall a reimbursement fee of A$76.5 million.  Antitrust/competition approval, if obtained, is likely to be conditioned on the divestiture of certain assets in Australia, Canada, the United States and/or the United Kingdom, including the divestiture of assets in the United States and Canada that, in the aggregate, may exceed the Divestiture Threshold.  If we divest more assets than we anticipated when we entered into the Recall Agreement, the benefits that we originally expected to realize from the Recall Transaction could be reduced. Moreover, to the extent that the current price of our common stock reflects an assumption that asset divestitures will be less than what may ultimately be required by antitrust/competition agencies in Australia, Canada, the United States and/or the United Kingdom in order to consummate the Recall Transaction, the price per share for our common stock could be negatively impacted.  Following the Recall Transaction, our exposure to foreign exchange translation risk will be increased. We are currently subject to foreign exchange translation risk because we conduct business operations in several foreign countries through our foreign subsidiaries or affiliates, which conduct business in their respective local currencies. Recall conducts a significant portion of its operations outside of the United States through its foreign subsidiaries or affiliates, which also operate in their respective local currencies. Therefore, following the completion of the Recall Transaction, our international operations will account for a more significant portion of our overall operations than they do presently. Because our financial statements will continue to be presented in United States dollars subsequent to the Recall Transaction, the local currencies will be translated into United States dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our international storage and information management services businesses will continue to be exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, and due to the Recall Transaction, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations will increase. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and significant shifts in foreign currencies can impact our short-term results, as well as our long-term forecasts and targets. In certain circumstances, if the Recall Agreement is terminated without any payment of a termination payment by Recall, we may not be fully reimbursed for our out of pocket expenses. Under the Recall Agreement, Recall would be required to reimburse us for our reasonable, documented out of pocket expenses actually incurred in connection with the Recall Transaction up to a maximum of $5.0 million if (i) the Recall board of directors withdraws or adversely modifies its recommendation that Recall shareholders vote in favor of the resolution to approve the Recall Transaction as a result of the report of the independent expert opining that the Recall Transaction is not in the best interests of Recall's shareholders (other than where the reason for such opinion is a Recall competing transaction) and (ii) the Recall Agreement is terminated by Recall or us prior to the Recall shareholders meeting. Given that such reimbursed expenses cannot exceed $5.0 million, we may not be fully reimbursed for our out of pocket expenses in the event of such a termination. Our due diligence of Recall may have failed to identify key issues that could have an adverse effect on our performance and financial condition. Before executing the Recall Agreement, we and Recall undertook a period of mutual due diligence for the purpose of negotiating the terms of the Recall Transaction. Although we and Recall decided to proceed with the Recall Transaction following that due diligence exercise, there is a risk that the due diligence undertaken was insufficient or failed to identify key issues. Furthermore, after implementation of the Recall Transaction, we will be subject to any unknown liabilities of Recall which could have an adverse effect on our performance and financial condition. 14Table of ContentsWe will guarantee certain obligations of Recall to Brambles relating to Brambles' prior demerger transaction. On December 18, 2013, Brambles Limited, an Australian corporation ("Brambles"), implemented a demerger transaction by way of a distribution of shares of Recall to Brambles’ shareholders (the “Demerger”). Prior to and in connection with the Demerger, Brambles spun off certain of its United States and Canadian subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, to Recall. Such spin-offs were intended to be tax-free or tax-deferred under United States and Canadian tax laws, respectively, and Brambles obtained rulings from the IRS (with respect to the United States spin-off) and the Canada Revenue Agency (with respect to the Canadian spin-off), as well as opinions of its tax advisors, to such effect. However, the tax-free status of the spin-off of such United States subsidiaries could be adversely affected under certain circumstances if a 50% or greater interest in such United States subsidiaries were acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included such spin-off. Similarly, the tax-deferred status of the spin-off of the Canadian subsidiaries could be adversely affected under certain circumstances if control of such subsidiaries were acquired as part of a series of transactions or events that included such spin-off. In connection with the Demerger, Recall agreed to indemnify Brambles and certain of its affiliates for taxes to the extent that actions by Recall (e.g., an acquisition of Recall shares) resulted in the United States spin-off or the Canadian spin-off described above failing to qualify as tax-free or tax-deferred for United States or Canadian tax purposes, respectively. In addition, Recall agreed, among other things, that it would not, within two years of the 2013 spin-offs, enter into a proposed acquisition transaction, merger or consolidation (with respect to the United States spin-off) or take any action that could reasonably be expected to jeopardize, directly or indirectly, any of the conclusions reached in the Canadian tax ruling or opinion, without obtaining either a supplemental tax ruling from the relevant taxing authority, the consent of Brambles or an opinion of a tax advisor, acceptable to Brambles in its reasonable discretion, that such transaction should not result in the spin-offs failing to be tax-free under United States federal income tax law or Canadian tax law, respectively. Recall has obtained or intends to obtain such tax opinions, based on, among other things, representations and warranties made by Recall and us. Such opinions, once accepted by Brambles, do not affect Recall’s obligation to indemnify Brambles for an adverse impact on the tax-free status of such prior spin-offs. The delivery of those opinions is a condition to our obligation to consummate the Recall Transaction. We have agreed, contingent on the consummation of the Recall Transaction, to guarantee the foregoing indemnification obligations of Recall. Consistent with the foregoing tax opinions, we believe that the Recall Transaction is not part of a plan or series of related transactions, or part of a series of transactions or events, that included the United States spin-off or the Canadian spin-off, respectively. However, if the IRS or the Canadian Revenue Agency were to prevail in asserting a contrary view, we and Recall would be liable for the resulting taxes, which could be material. Risks Related to Us and Recall The failure to integrate successfully Recall’s business with our business in the expected time frame would adversely affect our future results. The success of the Recall Transaction will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits, including cost savings from combining Recall’s businesses with ours. To realize these anticipated benefits, our business and Recall’s must be successfully integrated. This integration will be complex and time-consuming. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in us not fully achieving the anticipated benefits of the Recall Transaction. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following:•challenges and difficulties associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined company; •conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the  entities; •integrating personnel from the two entities while maintaining focus on developing, producing and delivering  consistent, high quality services; •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; •coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; •potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the Recall Transaction; •performance shortfalls at one or both of the entities as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the Recall Transaction and integrating the entities' operations; and •our ability to deliver on our strategy going forward. 15Table of ContentsWe will incur adverse tax consequences if the combined company following the Recall Transaction fails to qualify as a REIT for United States federal income tax purposes. We believe that, following the Recall Transaction, we will integrate Recall's assets and operations in a manner that will allow us to timely satisfy the REIT income, asset, and distribution tests applicable to us. However, if we fail to do so, we could jeopardize or lose our qualification for taxation as a REIT, particularly if we were ineligible to utilize relief provisions set forth in the Code. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing our taxable income, and thus would be subject to United States federal and state income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our United States federal and state taxable income in the manner of a regular corporation. Those corporate level taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders or for reinvestment or other purposes, and would adversely affect our earnings. As a result, our failure to qualify for taxation as a REIT during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our stockholders. Furthermore, unless prescribed relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Finally, even if we are able to utilize relief provisions and thereby avoid disqualification for taxation as a REIT, relief provisions typically involve paying a penalty tax in proportion to the severity and duration of the noncompliance with REIT requirements, and thus these penalty taxes could be significant in the context of noncompliance stemming from a transaction as large as the Recall Transaction. The Recall Transaction, if completed, will dilute the ownership position of our current stockholders. If the Recall Transaction is completed, the Recall shareholders are expected to beneficially own a significant percentage of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Consequently, our current stockholders will own a smaller proportion of our common stock than the proportion of common stock they owned before the Recall Transaction and, as a result, they will have less influence on our management and policies following the Recall Transaction than they now have on our management and policies. Our and Recall's business relationships may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the Recall Transaction, which could have an adverse effect on our and Recall's results of operations, cash flows and financial position and, following the completion of the Recall Transaction, the combined company. Parties with which we and Recall do business may experience uncertainty associated with the Recall Transaction, including with respect to current or future business relationships with us, Recall or the combined company following the completion of the Recall Transaction. Our and Recall's relationships may be subject to disruption as customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we and Recall have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationships with us or Recall, as applicable, or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us or Recall. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of us, Recall or the combined company following the completion of the Recall Transaction, including an adverse effect on our ability to realize the expected synergies and other benefits of the Recall Transaction. The risk, and adverse effect, of any disruption could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the Recall Transaction or the termination of the Recall Agreement. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REITIf we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to tax at corporate income tax rates and will not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders when computing our taxable income.We have elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our 2014 taxable year; however, we can provide no assurance that we will remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be taxed at corporate income tax rates unless certain relief provisions apply.Qualification for taxation as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), which provisions may change from time to time, to our operations as well as various factual determinations concerning matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions.If, in any taxable year, we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT and are not entitled to relief under the Code:•we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;•we will be subject to federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate tax rates; and•we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes.16Table of ContentsIf we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may need to borrow additional funds or liquidate some investments to pay any additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment and distributions to stockholders could be reduced.As a REIT, failure to make required distributions would subject us to federal corporate income tax.We expect to continue paying regular quarterly distributions, and, to achieve maximum tax efficiency and retain cash to allow us to make selective discretionary investments, we currently anticipate our typical regular quarterly distributions will be based on a payment of approximately 100% of our REIT taxable income; however, the amount, timing and form of our regular quarterly distributions will be determined, and will be subject to adjustment, by our board of directors. To remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) each year to our stockholders. Generally, we expect to distribute all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income. If our cash available for distribution falls short of our estimates, we may be unable to maintain distributions that approximate our REIT taxable income and may fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. In addition, our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible expenditures, such as capital expenditures, payments of compensation for which Section 162(m) of the Code denies a deduction, the creation of reserves or required debt service or amortization payments.To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders for a calendar year is less than the minimum amount specified under the Code.We may be required to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity to satisfy REIT distribution requirements, to comply with asset ownership tests or to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives.In order to meet the REIT distribution requirements and maintain our qualification and taxation as a REIT, or to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives, we may need to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, sales or offerings. Any insufficiency of our cash flows to cover our REIT distribution requirements could adversely impact our ability to raise short- and long-term debt, to sell assets, or to offer equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain our qualification and taxation as a REIT. Furthermore, the REIT distribution requirements may increase the financing we need to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives. This would increase our indebtedness. An increase in our outstanding debt could lead to a downgrade of our credit rating. A downgrade of our credit rating could negatively impact our ability to access credit markets. Further, certain of our current debt instruments limit the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur. Additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. For a discussion of risks related to our substantial level of indebtedness, see "Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness."Whether we issue equity, at what price and the amount and other terms of any such issuances will depend on many factors, including alternative sources of capital, our then-existing leverage, our need for additional capital, market conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities or debt convertible into equity securities, the percentage of stock ownership by our existing stockholders may be reduced. In addition, new equity securities or convertible debt securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our current stockholders, which could substantially decrease the value of our securities owned by them. Depending on the share price we are able to obtain, we may have to sell a significant number of shares in order to raise the capital we deem necessary to execute our long-term strategy, and our stockholders may experience dilution in the value of their shares as a result.In addition, if we fail to comply with specified asset ownership tests applicable to REITs as measured at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the applicable calendar quarter or qualify for statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our qualification for taxation as a REIT. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions may reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.17Table of ContentsLegislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us or our stockholders.At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Federal and state tax laws are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the United States Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS"), the United States Department of the Treasury and state taxing authorities. Changes to the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us. In addition, some of these changes could have a more significant impact on us as compared to other REITs due to the nature of our business and our substantial use of taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRSs"). We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations applicable to us may be changed.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our flexibility or cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities.To remain qualified for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. Thus, compliance with these tests may require us to refrain from certain activities and may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-REIT qualifying operations or assets, the expansion of non-real estate activities, and investments in the businesses to be conducted by our TRSs, and to that extent limit our opportunities and our flexibility to change our business strategy. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities in domestic and international markets may be adversely affected if we need or require the target company to comply with some REIT requirements prior to closing.We conduct a significant portion of our business activities, including our information management services businesses and several of our international operations, through domestic and foreign TRSs. Under the Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs and other nonqualifying assets. Beginning in our 2018 taxable year, no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one more more TRSs within the overall 25% nonqualifying assets limitation. These limitations may affect our ability to make additional investments in non-REIT qualifying operations or assets or in international operations through TRSs.As a REIT, we are limited in our ability to fund distribution payments using cash generated through our TRSs.Our ability to receive distributions from our TRSs is limited by the rules with which we must comply to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT. In particular, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from real estate, which principally includes gross income from providing customers with secure storage space. Consequently, no more than 25% of our gross income may consist of dividend income from our TRSs and other nonqualifying types of income. Thus, our ability to receive distributions from our TRSs may be limited, and may impact our ability to fund distributions to our stockholders using cash flows from our TRSs. Specifically, if our TRSs become highly profitable, we might become limited in our ability to receive net income from our TRSs in an amount required to fund distributions to our stockholders commensurate with that profitability.In addition, a significant amount of our income and cash flows from our TRSs is generated from our international operations. In many cases, there are local withholding taxes and currency controls that may impact our ability or willingness to repatriate funds to the United States to help satisfy REIT distribution requirements.Our extensive use of TRSs, including for certain of our international operations, may cause us to fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT.The net income of our TRSs is not required to be distributed to us, and income that is not distributed to us generally is not subject to the REIT income distribution requirement. However, there may be limitations on our ability to accumulate earnings in our TRSs and the accumulation or reinvestment of significant earnings in our TRSs could result in adverse tax treatment. In particular, if the accumulation of cash in our TRSs causes the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs and other nonqualifying assets to exceed 25% of the fair market value of our assets, then we will fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. Beginning with our 2018 taxable year, if the accumulation of cash in our TRSs causes (1) the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs to exceed 20% of the fair market value of our assets or (2) the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs and other nonqualifying assets to exceed 25% of the fair market value of our assets, then we will fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. 18Table of ContentsOur cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate.A REIT generally is required to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income to its stockholders.Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, will determine on a quarterly basis the amount of cash to be distributed to our stockholders based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, any stock repurchase program and general market demand for our space and services. Consequently, our distribution levels may fluctuate.Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, some of our business activities are subject to corporate level income tax and foreign taxes, which will continue to reduce our cash flows, and we will have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities.Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and assets, including alternative minimum taxes, taxes on any undistributed income, and state, local or foreign income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could in certain circumstances be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain qualification for taxation as a REIT.Our information management services businesses are conducted through wholly owned TRSs because these activities could generate nonqualifying REIT income as currently structured and operated. The income of our domestic TRSs will continue to be subject to federal and state corporate income taxes. In addition, we and our subsidiaries continue to be subject to foreign income taxes in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence, regardless of whether assets are held or operations are conducted through subsidiaries disregarded for federal income tax purposes or TRSs. Any of these taxes would decrease our earnings and our available cash.We will also be subject to a federal corporate level tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate (currently 35%) on gain recognized from a sale of a REIT asset where our basis in the asset is determined by reference to the basis of the asset in the hands of a C corporation (such as (i) an asset that we held as of the effective date of our REIT election, that is, January 1, 2014, or (ii) an asset that we hold in a QRS following the liquidation or other conversion of a former TRS). This 35% tax is generally applicable to any disposition of such an asset during the five-year period after the date we first owned the asset as a REIT asset (e.g., January 1, 2014 in the case of REIT assets we held at the time of our REIT conversion), to the extent of the built-in-gain based on the fair market value of such asset on the date we first held the asset as a REIT asset. In addition, depreciation recapture income that we expect to recognize in connection with the Recall Transaction as a result of accounting method changes that we will make will be fully subject to this 35% tax. In addition, the IRS and any state or local tax authority may successfully assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for our pre-REIT period, in which case we will owe these taxes plus applicable interest and penalties, if any. Moreover, any increase in taxable income for these pre-REIT periods will likely result in an increase in pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits, which could cause us to pay an additional taxable distribution to our stockholders after the relevant determination.Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and increase the cost of our hedging and may cause us to incur tax liabilities.The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Generally, income from hedging transactions that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets and income from certain currency hedging transactions related to our non-United States operations, as well as income from qualifying counteracting hedges do not constitute "gross income" for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as nonqualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through our TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on income or gains resulting from hedges entered into by them or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates or exchange rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, hedging losses in any of our TRSs generally will not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward for possible use against future taxable income in the TRSs.19Table of ContentsWe have limited experience operating as a REIT, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock, ability to forecast dividends and ability to satisfy debt service obligations.We began operating as a REIT on January 1, 2014 and, as such, have limited operating history as a REIT. In addition, prior to January 1, 2014 our senior management team had no prior experience operating a REIT. We can provide no assurance that our past experience has sufficiently prepared us to operate successfully as a REIT. Our inability to operate successfully as a REIT, including the failure to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Distributions payable by REITs generally do not qualify for preferential tax rates.Qualifying distributions payable by corporations to individuals, trusts and estates that are United States stockholders are currently eligible for federal income tax at preferential rates. Distributions payable by REITs, in contrast, generally are not eligible for the preferential rates. The preferential rates applicable to regular corporate distributions could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stock of non-REIT corporations that pay distributions, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock.The ownership and transfer restrictions contained in our certificate of incorporation may not protect our qualification for taxation as a REIT, could have unintended antitakeover effects and may prevent our stockholders from receiving a takeover premium.In order for us to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year other than the first year for which we elect to be taxed as a REIT. In addition, rents from "affiliated tenants" will not qualify as qualifying REIT income if we own 10% or more by vote or value of the customer, whether directly or after application of attribution rules under the Code. Subject to certain exceptions, our certificate of incorporation prohibits any stockholder from owning, beneficially or constructively, more than (i) 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our capital stock or (ii) 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. We refer to these restrictions collectively as the "ownership limits" and we included them in our certificate of incorporation to facilitate our compliance with REIT tax rules. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock (or the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Even though our certificate of incorporation contains the ownership limits, there can be no assurance that these provisions will be effective to prevent our qualification for taxation as a REIT from being jeopardized, including under the affiliated tenant rule. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to monitor and enforce the ownership limits. If the restrictions in our certificate of incorporation are not effective and as a result we fail to satisfy the REIT tax rules described above, then absent an applicable relief provision, we will fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT.In addition, the ownership and transfer restrictions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. As a result, the overall effect of the ownership and transfer restrictions may be to render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire us, even if such acquisition may be favorable to the interests of our stockholders.The ability of our board of directors to change our major policies without the consent of stockholders may not be in the interest of our stockholders.Our board of directors determines our major policies, including policies and guidelines relating to our investments, acquisitions, leverage, financing, growth, operations and distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies and guidelines from time to time without the vote or consent of our stockholders. Accordingly, our stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies, and any such changes could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.20Table of ContentsOperational RisksOur customers may shift from paper and tape storage to alternative technologies that require less physical space.We derive most of our revenues from rental fees for the storage of physical records and computer backup tapes and from storage related services. Alternative storage technologies exist, many of which require significantly less space than physical records and tapes, and as alternative technologies are adopted, storage related services may decline as the physical records or tapes we store become less active and more archived. We can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to store most or a portion of their records as paper documents or in tape format. The adoption of alternative technologies may also result in decreased demand for services related to the paper documents and tapes we store. A significant shift by our customers to storage of data through non-paper or tape-based technologies, whether now existing or developed in the future, could adversely affect our businesses.As stored records become less active our service revenue growth and profitability may decline.Our records management service revenue growth is being negatively impacted by declining activity rates as stored records are becoming less active. The amount of information available to customers through the Internet or their own information systems has been steadily increasing in recent years. As a result, while we continue to experience growth in storage rental, our customers are less likely than they have been in the past to retrieve records, thereby reducing their service activity levels. At the same time many of our costs related to records related services remain fixed. In addition, our reputation for providing secure information storage is critical to our success, and actions to manage cost structure, such as outsourcing certain transportation, security or other functions, could negatively impact our reputation and adversely affect our business. Ultimately, if we are unable to appropriately align our cost structure with decreased levels of service revenue, our operating results could be adversely affected.Changes in customer behavior with respect to document destruction and pricing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have experienced pricing pressure in recent years as some customers have become more cost conscious with respect to their information management expenditures. Some customers have taken actions designed to reduce costs associated with the retention of documents, including reducing the volume of documents they store and adopting more aggressive destruction practices. If we are unable to increase pricing over time, or if rates of destruction of documents stored with us increase substantially, particularly in our developed and slower growing markets, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.21Table of ContentsGovernmental and customer focus on data security could increase our costs of operations. We may not be able to fully offset these costs through increases in our rates. Incidents in which we fail to protect our customers' information against security breaches could result in monetary damages against us and could otherwise damage our reputation, harm our businesses and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, if we fail to protect our own information, including information about our employees, we could experience significant costs and expenses as well as damage to our reputation.In reaction to publicized incidents in which electronically stored information has been lost, illegally accessed or stolen, almost all states in the United States have adopted breach of data security statutes or regulations that require notification to consumers if the security of their personal information is breached, and, in 2015, many states expanded the scope of their data breach notifications laws and shortened notification timelines.  Some states in the United States have adopted regulations requiring every company that maintains or stores personal information to adopt a comprehensive written information security program. In addition, certain United States federal laws and regulations affecting financial institutions, health care providers and plans and others impose requirements regarding the privacy and security of information maintained by those institutions as well as notification to persons whose personal information is accessed by an unauthorized third party. Some of these laws and regulations provide for civil fines in certain circumstances and require the adoption and maintenance of privacy and information security programs; our failure to be in compliance with any such programs may adversely affect our business. Continued governmental focus on data security may lead to additional legislative action in the United States. For example, the 114th Congress has considered and will likely consider legislation that would expand the federal data breach notification requirement beyond the financial and medical fields. Also, an increasing number of countries have introduced and/or increased enforcement of comprehensive privacy laws, or are expected to do so.  In Europe, a new data protection regulation will likely come into effect in 2018 and will supersede Directive 95/46/EC, which has governed the processing of personal data since 1995. The new regulation will enhance the security and privacy obligations of entities, such as Iron Mountain, that process data of residents of members of the European Economic Area and substantially increase penalties for violations. In addition, the European Court of Justice has invalidated a decision of the European Commission that permitted our European affiliates and our European customers to transfer personal data to entities in the United States that are certified under the EU-US safe harbor framework. This decision, a failure of the European Union and the United States to agree on a new safe-harbor framework, the new regulation and laws in other countries that restrict the export of personal data may result in more customers demanding local solutions, which would increase our IT infrastructure, maintenance and support costs. The continued emphasis on information security as well as increasing concerns about government surveillance may lead customers to request that we take additional measures to enhance security and assume higher liability under our contracts. We have experienced incidents in which customers' backup tapes or other records have been lost, and we have been informed by customers that some of the incidents involved the loss of personal information, resulting in monetary costs to those customers for which we have provided reimbursement. As a result of legislative initiatives and client demands, we may have to modify our operations with the goal of further improving data security. Any such modifications may result in increased expenses and operating complexity, and we may be unable to increase the rates we charge for our services sufficiently to offset any increased expenses.In addition to increases in the costs of operations or potential liability that may result from a heightened focus on data security or losses of information, our reputation may be damaged by any compromise of security, accidental loss or theft of our own records, or information that we maintain with respect to our employees, as well as customer data in our possession. We believe that establishing and maintaining a good reputation is critical to attracting and retaining customers. If our reputation is damaged, we may become less competitive, which could negatively impact our businesses, financial condition or results of operations.Changing fire and safety standards may result in significant expense in certain jurisdictions.As of December 31, 2015, we operated 1,046 records management, off-site data protection and fine art storage facilities worldwide, including 575 in the United States. Many of these facilities were built and outfitted by third parties and added to our real estate portfolio as part of acquisitions. Some of these facilities contain fire suppression and safety features that are different from our current specifications and current standards for new facilities although we believe all of our facilities were constructed, in all material respects, in compliance with laws and regulations in effect at the time of their construction or outfitting. In some instances local authorities having jurisdiction may take the position that our fire suppression and safety features in a particular facility are insufficient and require additional measures that may involve considerable expense to us. In addition, where we determine that the fire suppression and safety features of a facility require improvement, we will develop and implement a plan to remediate the issue, although implementation may require an extended period to complete. If additional fire safety and suppression measures beyond our current operating plan were required at a large number of our facilities, the expense required for compliance could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.22Table of ContentsOur customer contracts may not always limit our liability and may sometimes contain terms that could lead to disputes in contract interpretation.Our customer contracts typically contain provisions limiting our liability with respect to loss or destruction of, or damage to, records or information stored with us. Our liability under physical storage contracts is often limited to a nominal fixed amount per item or unit of storage, such as per cubic foot and our liability under our DMS and other service contracts is often limited to a percentage of annual revenue under the contract; however, some of our contracts with large volume accounts and some of the contracts assumed in our acquisitions contain no such limits or contain higher limits. We cannot provide assurance that where we have limitation of liability provisions they will be enforceable in all instances or, if enforceable, that they would otherwise protect us from liability. In addition to provisions limiting our liability, our standard storage rental and service contracts include a schedule setting forth the majority of the customer-specific terms, including storage rental and service pricing and service delivery terms. Our customers may dispute the interpretation of various provisions in their contracts. In the past, we have had relatively few disputes with our customers with regard to the terms of their customer contracts, and most disputes to date have not been material, but we can provide no assurance that we will not have material disputes in the future. Although we maintain a comprehensive insurance program, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance policies on acceptable terms in order to cover losses to us in connection with customer contract disputes.Failure to comply with certain regulatory and contractual requirements under our United States Government contracts could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial position.Selling our services to the United States Government subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to investigations, price reductions, up to treble damages, and civil penalties. Noncompliance with certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or barred from future United States Government contracting. We may also face private derivative securities claims as a result of adverse government actions. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial position and reputation.International operations may pose unique risks.As of December 31, 2015, we provided services in 36 countries outside the United States. As part of our growth strategy, we expect to continue to acquire or invest in storage and information management services businesses in select foreign markets, including countries where we do not currently operate. International operations are subject to numerous risks, including:•the impact of foreign government regulations and United States regulations that apply to us wherever we operate; in particular, we are subject to United States and foreign anticorruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and, although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and training to deter prohibited practices, our employees, partners, contractors or agents may violate or circumvent such policies and the law;•the volatility of certain foreign economies in which we operate;•political uncertainties;•unforeseen liabilities, particularly within acquired businesses;•costs and difficulties associated with managing international operations of varying sizes and scale;•the risk that business partners upon whom we depend for technical assistance or management and acquisition expertise in some markets outside of the United States will not perform as expected;•difficulties attracting and retaining local management and key employees to operate our business in certain countries;•cultural differences and differences in business practices and operating standards; and•foreign currency fluctuations.In particular, our net income, debt balances or leverage can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currencies.  23Table of ContentsWe have operations in numerous foreign countries and, as a result, are subject to foreign exchange translation risk, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results.We conduct business operations in numerous foreign countries through our foreign subsidiaries or affiliates, which operate in their respective local currencies. Those local currencies are translated into United States dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The results of operations of, and certain of our debt balances (including intercompany debt balances) associated with, our international storage and information management services businesses are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, and as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and significant shifts in foreign currencies can impact our short-term results, as well as our long-term forecasts and targets. In addition, because we intend to distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders, and any exchange rate fluctuations may negatively impact our REIT taxable income, our distribution amounts (including the classification of our distributions as nonqualified ordinary dividends, qualified ordinary dividends or return of capital, as described more fully in "Item 5. Market Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" included in this Annual Report) may fluctuate as a result of exchange rate fluctuations.We may be subject to certain costs and potential liabilities associated with the real estate required for our business.Because our business is heavily dependent on real estate, we face special risks attributable to the real estate we own or lease. Such risks include:•acquisition and occupancy costs that make it difficult to meet anticipated margins and difficulty locating suitable facilities due to a relatively small number of available buildings having the desired characteristics in some real estate markets;•uninsured losses or damage to our storage facilities due to an inability to obtain full coverage on a cost-effective basis for some casualties, such as fires, earthquakes, or any coverage for certain losses, such as losses from riots or terrorist activities;•inability to use our real estate holdings effectively and costs associated with vacating or consolidating facilities if the demand for physical storage were to diminish; and•liability under environmental laws for the costs of investigation and cleanup of contaminated real estate owned or leased by us, whether or not (i) we know of, or were responsible for, the contamination, or (ii) the contamination occurred while we owned or leased the property.Some of our current and formerly owned or leased properties were previously used by entities other than us for industrial or other purposes, or were affected by waste generated from nearby properties, that involved the use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, including petroleum products. In some instances this prior use involved the operation of underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos-containing materials. Where we are aware of environmental conditions that require remediation, we undertake appropriate activity, in accordance with all legal requirements. Although we have from time to time conducted limited environmental investigations and remedial activities at some of our former and current facilities, we have not undertaken an in-depth environmental review of all of our properties. We therefore may be potentially liable for environmental costs like those discussed above and may be unable to sell, rent, mortgage or use contaminated real estate owned or leased by us. Environmental conditions for which we might be liable may also exist at properties that we may acquire in the future. In addition, future regulatory action and environmental laws may impose costs for environmental compliance that do not exist today.Unexpected events could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at our facilities, natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, war or terrorist activities, unplanned power outages, supply disruptions and failure of equipment or systems, could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Our customers rely on us to securely store and timely retrieve their critical information, and these events could result in customer service disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities and the information stored in those facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities or the temporary disruption of information systems, each of which could negatively impact our reputation and results of operations. During the past several years we have seen an increase in severe storms and hurricanes and our key facilities in Florida and other coastal areas in particular are subject to this inherent risk.24Table of ContentsDamage to our reputation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our reputation for providing highly secure information storage to customers is critical to the success of our business. Our reputation or brand, and specifically, the trust our customers place in us, could be negatively impacted in the event of perceived or actual failures by us to store information securely. For example, events such as fires, natural disasters, attacks on our information technology systems or security breaches involving us could negatively impact our reputation, particularly if such incidents result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation. Damage to our reputation could make us less competitive, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our operating revenues and results of operations.Our operating revenues and results of operations are impacted by significant changes in commodity prices. In particular, our secure shredding operations generate revenue from the sale of shredded paper to recyclers. We generate additional revenue through a customer surcharge when the price of diesel fuel rises above certain predetermined rates. As a result, significant declines in paper and diesel fuel prices may negatively impact our revenues and results of operations, and increases in other commodity prices, including steel, may negatively impact our results of operations.Attacks on our internal information technology systems could damage our reputation, harm our businesses and adversely impact our results of operations.Our reputation for providing secure information storage to customers is critical to the success of our business. We have previously faced attempts by unauthorized users to gain access to our information technology systems and expect to continue to face such attempts. Although we seek to prevent, detect and investigate these security incidents and have taken steps to prevent such security breaches, our information technology and network infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. A successful breach of the security of our information technology systems could lead to theft or misuse of our customers' proprietary or confidential information and result in third party claims against us and reputational harm. If our reputation is damaged, we may become less competitive, which could negatively impact our businesses, financial condition or results of operations.We may be subject to claims that our technology violates the intellectual property rights of a third party.Third parties may have legal rights (including ownership of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights) to ideas, materials, processes, names or original works that are the same or similar to those we use. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, bring claims, or threaten to bring claims, against us that allege that their intellectual property rights are being infringed or violated by our use of intellectual property. Litigation or threatened litigation could be costly and distract our senior management from operating our business. Further, if we cannot establish our right or obtain the right to use the intellectual property on reasonable terms, we may be required to develop alternative intellectual property at our expense to mitigate potential harm.We face competition for customers.We compete with multiple storage and information management services providers in all geographic areas where we operate; our current or potential customers may choose to use those competitors instead of us. We also compete, in some of our business lines, with our current and potential customers' internal storage and information management services capabilities. These organizations may not begin or continue to use us for their future storage and information management service needs.25Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our IndebtednessOur substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our various debt instruments.We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, our total long-term debt was approximately $4.90 billion. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our current and potential investors. These risks include:•inability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our various debt instruments;•inability to adjust to adverse economic conditions;•inability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements, including possible required repurchases of our various indebtedness;•limits on our distributions to stockholders; in this regard if these limits prevented us from satisfying our REIT distribution requirements, we could fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT or, if these limits do not jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT but do nevertheless prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax, and potentially a nondeductible excise tax, on the retained amounts;•limits on our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the information management services industry;•limits on future borrowings under our existing or future credit arrangements, which could affect our ability to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs;•inability to generate sufficient funds to cover required interest payments; and•restrictions on our ability to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms.Restrictive debt covenants may limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy.Our Credit Agreement (as defined below) and our indentures contain covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends or make other restricted payments;•make asset dispositions;•create or permit liens; and•make acquisitions and other investments.These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to pursue our acquisition and other growth strategies.We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance the repurchase of outstanding senior or senior subordinated notes upon a change of control event as required by our indentures.Upon the occurrence of a "change of control", we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding senior or senior subordinated notes. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of the notes or that restrictions in our Credit Agreement will not allow such repurchases. Certain important corporate events, however, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a "change of control" under our indentures.Iron Mountain is a holding company, and, therefore, our ability to make payments on our various debt obligations depends in part on the operations of our subsidiaries.Iron Mountain is a holding company; substantially all of our assets consist of the stock of our subsidiaries, and substantially all of our operations are conducted by our direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make payments on our various debt obligations will be dependent upon the receipt of sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. However, our various debt obligations are guaranteed, on a joint and several and full and unconditional basis, by our direct and indirect wholly owned United States subsidiaries, that represent the substantial majority of our United States operations.26Table of ContentsAcquisition and Expansion RisksElements of our strategic growth plan involve inherent risks.As part of our strategic growth plan, we expect to invest in new business strategies, products, services, technologies and geographies, including ABOs, and we may selectively divest certain businesses. These initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenues to offset expenses and liabilities associated with new investments, inadequate return of capital on these investments and the inability to attract, develop and retain skilled employees to lead and support new initiatives. For example, in 2013 we expanded our entry into the data center market by leasing wholesale and retail colocation space in our underground facility in Pennsylvania, and in 2014 we opened our first regional data center in Massachusetts, each of which required a significant capital commitment. Many of these new ventures are inherently risky and we can provide no assurance that such strategies and offerings will be successful in achieving the desired returns within a reasonable timeframe, if at all, and that they will not adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results.Failure to manage our growth may impact operating results.If we succeed in expanding our existing businesses, or in moving into new areas of business, that expansion may place increased demands on our management, operating systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources. If not managed effectively, these increased demands may adversely affect the services we provide to customers. In addition, our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support future operations, particularly with respect to operations in countries outside of the United States or in new lines of business. Consequently, in order to manage growth effectively, we may be required to increase expenditures to increase our physical resources, expand, train and manage our employee base, improve management, financial and information systems and controls, or make other capital expenditures. Our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed if we encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by future growth.Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could negatively impact our balance sheet and results of operations.Strategic acquisitions are an important element of our growth strategy and the success of any acquisition we make depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired business and realize anticipated synergies. The process of integrating acquired businesses, particularly in new markets, may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management's attention and our financial and other resources. We can give no assurance that we will ultimately be able to effectively integrate and manage the operations of any acquired business or realize anticipated synergies. The failure to successfully integrate the cultures, operating systems, procedures and information technologies of an acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet and results of operations.We may be unable to continue our international expansion.An important part of our growth strategy involves expanding operations in international markets, including in markets where we currently do not operate, and we expect to continue this expansion. Europe, Latin America and Australia have been our primary areas of focus for international expansion, and we have expanded into the Asia Pacific region to a lesser extent. We have entered into joint ventures and have acquired all or a majority of the equity in storage and information management services businesses operating in these areas and may acquire other storage and information management services businesses in the future, including in new countries/markets where we currently do not operate.This growth strategy involves risks. We may be unable to pursue this strategy in the future at the desired pace or at all. For example, we may be unable to:•identify suitable companies to acquire or invest in;•complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms;•successfully expand our infrastructure and sales force to support growth;•achieve satisfactory returns on acquired companies, particularly in countries where we do not currently operate;•incur additional debt necessary to acquire suitable companies if we are unable to pay the purchase price out of working capital, common stock or other equity securities; or•enter into successful business arrangements for technical assistance or management expertise outside of the United States.27Table of ContentsWe also compete with other storage and information management services providers for companies to acquire. Some of our competitors may possess substantial financial and other resources. If any such competitor were to devote additional resources to pursue such acquisition candidates or focus its strategy on our international markets, the purchase price for potential acquisitions or investments could rise, competition in international markets could increase and our results of operations could be adversely affected.Item 1B