Item 1A. Risk Factors.Executive OfficersExecutive Officers of the Company as of February 14, 2014 were as follows:Name OfficeAgeSharon M. Brady Senior Vice President, Human Resources63Timothy J. Gardner Executive Vice President58Maria C. Green Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary61John R. Hartnett Executive Vice President53Craig A. Hindman Executive Vice President59Michael M. Larsen Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer45Roland M. Martel Executive Vice President59Steven L. Martindale Executive Vice President57Sundaram Nagarajan Executive Vice President51Christopher O’Herlihy Executive Vice President50David C. Parry Vice Chairman60E. Scott Santi President & Chief Executive Officer52Randall J. Scheuneman Vice President & Chief Accounting Officer46Juan Valls Executive Vice President52The executive officers of the Company serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Set forth below is information regarding the principal occupations and employment and business experience over the past five years for each executive officer.  Unless otherwise stated, employment is by the Company.Ms. Brady has served in her present position since 2006. Mr. Gardner has served in his present position since 2009.  He joined the Company in 1997 and has held various sales and management positions in the consumer packaging businesses. Most recently, he served as Group President of the consumer packaging businesses.Ms. Green was elected Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary of the Company in February 2012. She joined the Company in 1997 as an Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, became Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary in 2008, and was elected Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary in August 2011. Mr. Hartnett was elected Executive Vice President of Construction Products in 2012. He joined Signode in 1980, which was acquired by ITW in 1986, and has held various management positions of increasing responsibility. Most recently, he served as Group President of the Automotive Aftermarket businesses.Mr. Hindman has served in his present position since 2004.Mr. Larsen joined the Company and was elected to his present position in September 2013. From October 2010 to August 2013, he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Gardner Denver, Inc., a global manufacturer of highly engineered compressors, blowers, pumps and other fluid transfer equipment. In addition, he served as interim CEO of Gardner Denver from July 2012 to November 2012, and as President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of that company from November 2012 to July 2013. Prior to joining Gardner Denver, he was Chief Financial Officer at General Electric Water & Process Technologies, a global provider of water treatment and process solutions. His previous experience includes more than 15 years with General Electric, where he held a number of global finance leadership roles with increasing responsibility. Mr. Martel has served in his present position since 2006.Mr. Martindale has served in his present position since 2008.  7Mr. Nagarajan was elected Executive Vice President in 2010. He joined the Company in 1991 and has held various engineering and management positions in the welding businesses. Most recently, he served as Group President within the welding businesses. Mr. O’Herlihy was elected Executive Vice President in 2010. He joined the Company in 1989 and has held various operational, management and leadership positions of increasing responsibility. Most recently he served as President, international food equipment businesses. Mr. Parry has served in his present position since 2010.  He served as Executive Vice President from 2006 to 2010.  Prior thereto, he served as President of the Performance Polymers Group.Mr. Santi was elected President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as a director, in November 2012, after having been elected President and Chief Operating Officer in October 2012. Mr. Santi served as Vice Chairman from 2008 to October 2012 and as Executive Vice President from 2004 to 2008.  Mr. Scheuneman was appointed Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009. Prior to joining the Company in 2009, he held several financial leadership positions at W.W. Grainger, Inc., including Vice President, Finance, for the Lab Safety Supply business from 2006 to 2009, and Vice President, Internal Audit, from 2002 to 2006. He was appointed Principal Accounting Officer in 2009. Mr. Valls has served in his present position since 2007.Available InformationThe Company electronically files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The public may read and copy any materials the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge through the Company's website (www.itw.com), as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are available in print to any shareholder who requests them. The Company will furnish any exhibit not contained herein upon the payment of a fee representing the reasonable cost to the Company of furnishing the exhibit. Requests for exhibits may be sent to Illinois Tool Works Inc., 3600 West Lake Avenue, Glenview, IL 60026, Attention: Secretary. Also posted on the Company’s website are the following:•Statement of Principles of Conduct;•Code of Ethics for CEO and key financial and accounting personnel;•Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors;•Corporate Governance Guidelines;•Global Anti-Corruption Policy;•Corporate Citizenship Statement; and•Government Affairs Information.ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsThe Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, which could cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.The Company's results are impacted by global economic conditions. Weakness or downturns in the markets served by the Company could adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition.The Company's businesses are impacted by economic conditions around the globe. Slower economic growth, credit market instability, high unemployment, government deficit reduction, sequestration and other austerity measures impacting the markets we serve can adversely affect the Company’s businesses by reducing demand for the Company's products and services, limiting financing available to the Company's customers, increasing order cancellations and the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increasing price competition, increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and increasing the risk that counterparties to the Company's contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their obligations.8The global nature of the Company's operations subjects it to political and economic risks that could adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition.The Company currently operates in 56 countries. The risks inherent in the Company's global operations include:•fluctuation in currency exchange rates;•limitations on ownership or participation in local enterprises;•price controls, exchange controls and limitations on repatriation of earnings;•transportation delays and interruptions;•political, social and economic instability and disruptions;•acts of terrorism;•government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions;•the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;•import and export controls;•labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;•the potential for expropriation or nationalization of enterprises;•difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;•limitations on its ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and•potentially adverse tax consequences.If the Company is unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing and expanding its international businesses, the risks could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition.If the Company is unable to successfully manage its enterprise initiatives, the timing and amount of benefits from these initiatives may not be as expected and the Company's financial results could be adversely impacted. The Company has completed the first year of its five year enterprise strategy and associated initiatives: portfolio management, business structure simplification and strategic sourcing. These initiatives include divesting assets that may no longer be aligned with its enterprise initiatives and long-term objectives, the scaling up of smaller businesses into larger businesses and better leveraging of purchasing power. If the Company is unable to retain its key employees, maintain productivity or otherwise implement these initiatives without material disruption to its businesses, the timing and amount of benefits from these initiatives may not be as expected and the Company's financial results could be adversely impacted.The timing and amount of the Company’s share repurchases are subject to a number of uncertainties.The Company previously announced its intention to fully offset the divestiture-related EPS dilution from the proposed sale of the Industrial Packaging segment through share repurchases. The Company currently plans to fund the repurchases through a combination of sale proceeds, free operating cash flow and additional borrowings. The amount and timing of share repurchases will be based on a variety of factors. Important factors that could cause us to limit, suspend or delay the Company's stock repurchases include unfavorable market conditions, the trading price of the Company's common stock, the nature of other investment opportunities presented to us from time to time, the ability to obtain financing at attractive rates and the availability of U.S. cash. If we delay, limit or suspend the Company's stock repurchase program, the Company's stock price may be negatively affected.Divestitures could negatively impact the Company's business, and retained liabilities from businesses that the Company sells could adversely affect the Company's financial results. As part of its portfolio management initiative, the Company reviews its operations for businesses that may no longer be aligned with its enterprise initiatives and long-term objectives.  As a result, the Company's divestiture activity increased over historical periods in 2012 and 2013 and is expected to increase further in 2014 with the planned divestiture of the Industrial Packaging segment.  Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact the Company's business, including the potentially dilutive effect on earnings per share, distraction of management's attention from core businesses, potential disputes with buyers and potential impairment charges.  In addition, the Company may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against known and unknown contingent liabilities related to the businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims and environmental matters.  9The Company may incur fines or penalties, damage to its reputation or other adverse consequences if its employees, agents or business partners violate anti-bribery or other laws.The Company cannot provide assurance that its internal controls will always protect it from reckless or criminal acts committed by its employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including anti-bribery laws, competition, and export and import compliance. Any such improper actions could subject the Company to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties against the Company or its subsidiaries, or could damage its reputation.A significant fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies could adversely impact the Company's operating income.Although the Company's financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, a significant portion of its sales and operating costs are realized in other currencies, with the largest concentration of foreign sales occurring in Europe. The Company's profitability is affected by movements of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and other foreign currencies in which it generates revenues and incurs expenses. Significant long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in particular an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies, could have an adverse effect on profitability and financial condition.The Company's acquisition of businesses could negatively impact its growth, profitability and returns.Acquisitions involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, managerial and operational challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect the Company's growth, profitability and returns:•Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to the Company's expectations and the price paid for it, or not perform in accordance with the Company's anticipated timetable.•Acquisitions could cause the Company's financial results to differ from expectations in any given fiscal period, or over the long term.•Acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results.•Acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on the Company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems.•The Company may assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated. The realization of any of these liabilities may increase the Company's expenses or adversely affect its financial position.As a result of acquisitions, the Company has in the past recorded significant goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets on its balance sheet. If the Company is not able to realize the value of these assets, it may recognize charges relating to the impairment of these assets.Diminished credit availability could adversely impact the Company's ability to readily obtain financing or to obtain cost-effective financing.The Company may utilize the commercial paper markets for a portion of its short-term liquidity needs. If conditions in the financial markets decline, there is no assurance that the commercial paper markets will remain available to the Company or that the lenders participating in the Company's long-term credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with the terms of its credit agreements. A failure of one or more of the syndicate members in the Company's credit facilities could reduce the availability of credit and adversely affect the Company's liquidity. If the Company determines that it is appropriate or necessary to raise capital in the future, funds may not be available on cost-effective terms.Raw material price increases and supply shortages could adversely affect results.The supply of raw materials to the Company and to its component parts suppliers could be interrupted for a variety of reasons, including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the past and significant increases could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and profit margins. Due to pricing pressure or other factors, the Company may not be able to pass along increased raw material and components parts prices to its customers in the form of price increases or its ability to do so could be delayed. Consequently, its results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.If the Company is unable to successfully introduce new products or adequately protect its intellectual property, its future growth may be adversely affected.The Company's ability to develop new products based on innovation can affect its competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and 10services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may reduce future revenues and adversely affect the Company's competitive position.Protecting the Company's intellectual property is critical to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by others. The Company's intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected, or the Company may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. Unauthorized use of the Company's intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could adversely impact the Company's competitive position and results of operations.Unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings may adversely affect results.The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are based on the income and expenses in various tax jurisdictions. The Company's effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes are subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts recorded, future financial results may include unfavorable tax adjustments.The Company's defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect its results of operations and cash flows.The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact the Company's funding obligations under its defined benefit pension plans. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase the Company's funding obligations and adversely impact its results of operations and cash flows.Potential adverse outcomes in legal proceedings may adversely affect results.The Company's businesses expose it to potential toxic tort and other types of product liability claims that are inherent in the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the products of third-party vendors. The Company currently maintains insurance programs consisting of self insurance up to certain limits and excess insurance coverage for claims over established limits. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance programs will provide adequate protection against actual losses. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent and become unable to pay claims that may be made in the future. Even if it maintains adequate insurance programs, claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and on its ability to obtain suitable, adequate or cost-effective insurance in the future.Forward-Looking StatementsThis Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “plans,” “intends,” “may,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “anticipate,” “guidance,” “forecast,” and other similar words, including, without limitation, statements regarding the expected acquisition or disposition of businesses, economic conditions in various geographic regions, the timing and amount of share repurchases, the Company's Enterprise Strategy and its ability to manage its strategic business initiatives and the timing and amount of benefits therefrom, the adequacy of internally generated funds and credit facilities, the ability to fund debt service obligations, the cost and availability of additional financing, the intention to refinance debt obligations, the Company's portion of future benefit payments related to pension and postretirement benefits,  the availability of raw materials and energy, the expiration of any one of the Company's patents, the cost of compliance with environmental regulations, the likelihood of future goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges, the outcome of outstanding legal proceedings, the impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, and the estimated timing and amount related to the resolution of tax matters. These statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Important risks that may influence future results include those risks described above. These risks are not all inclusive and given these and other possible risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.11Any forward-looking statements made by ITW speak only as of the date on which they are made. ITW is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or otherwise.ITW practices fair disclosure for all interested parties. Investors should be aware that while ITW regularly communicates with securities analysts and other investment professionals, it is against ITW's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Shareholders should not assume that ITW agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report.ITEM 1B