Item 1A. Risk
    Factors.”


 



    Executive
    Officers


 


    Executive Officers of the Company as of February 25, 2011
    were as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name


 


    Office


 


    Age



 






    Sharon M. Brady



 


    Senior Vice President, Human Resources


 

 


    60

 





    Robert E. Brunner



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    53

 





    Timothy J. Gardner



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    55

 





    Philip M. Gresh, Jr. 



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    62

 





    Thomas J. Hansen



 


    Vice Chairman


 

 


    62

 





    Craig A. Hindman



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    56

 





    Ronald D. Kropp



 


    Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer


 

 


    45

 





    Roland M. Martel



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    56

 





    Steven L. Martindale



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    54

 





    Sundaram Nagarajan



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    48

 





    Christopher O’Herlihy



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    47

 





    David C. Parry



 


    Vice Chairman


 

 


    57

 





    E. Scott Santi



 


    Vice Chairman


 

 


    49

 





    Randall J. Scheuneman



 


    Vice President & Chief Accounting Officer


 

 


    43

 





    David B. Speer



 


    Chairman & Chief Executive Officer


 

 


    59

 





    Allan C. Sutherland



 


    Senior Vice President, Taxes & Investments


 

 


    47

 





    Juan Valls



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    49

 





    Jane L. Warner



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    64

 





    James H. Wooten, Jr. 



 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary


 

 


    62

 








 


    The executive officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of
    the Board of Directors. Except for Mses. Brady and Warner and
    Messrs. Brunner, Gardner, Martel, Martindale, Nagarajan,
    O’Herlihy, Parry, Scheuneman and Valls, each of the
    foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in various
    elected executive capacities for more than five years.
    Ms. Brady was elected Senior Vice President of Human
    Resources in 2006. From 1998 to 2006, she was Vice President and
    Chief Human Resource Officer of Snap-On Inc. Ms. Warner was
    elected Executive Vice President in 2007. Prior to joining the
    Company in 2005 as President of the worldwide finishing
    businesses, she was President of Plexus Systems and a Vice
    President of EDS. Mr. Brunner was elected Executive Vice
    President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1980 and has held
    various management positions with the automotive fasteners
    businesses. Mr. Gardner was elected Executive Vice
    President in 2009. He joined the Company in 1997 and has held
    various sales and management positions in the consumer packaging
    businesses. Most recently, he served as Group President of the
    consumer packaging businesses. Mr. Martel was elected
    Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1994
    and has held various management positions in the automotive and
    metal components businesses. Mr. Martindale was elected
    Executive Vice President in 2008. Prior to joining the Company
    in 2005 as President of the test and measurement businesses, he
    was Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of
    Instron. Mr. Nagarajan was elected Executive Vice President
    in 2010. He joined the Company in 1991 and has held various
    engineering and management positions in the welding businesses.
    Most recently, he served as Group President, within the welding
    businesses. Mr. O’Herlihy was elected Executive Vice
    President in 2010. He joined the Company in 1989 and has held
    various operational, management and leadership positions of
    increasing responsibility. Most recently he served as President,
    international food equipment businesses. Mr. Parry was
    elected Vice Chairman in 2010. Previously he was elected
    Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company in 1994
    and has held various management positions in the performance
    polymers businesses. Mr. Scheuneman was appointed Vice





    
    7



Table of Contents





    President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009. Prior to joining
    the Company in 2009, he held several financial leadership
    positions at W.W. Grainger, Inc., including Vice President,
    Finance, for the Lab Safety Supply business from 2006 to 2009,
    and Vice President, Internal Audit, from 2002 to 2006. He was
    appointed Principal Accounting Officer in 2009. Mr. Valls
    was elected Executive Vice President in 2007. Prior to this, he
    was Vice President and General Manager of ITW Delfast
    International. He joined the Company in 1989 and has held
    various management positions in the European automotive
    businesses.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    The Company electronically files reports with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any
    materials the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC’s
    Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site
    (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and
    information statements, and other information regarding issuers
    that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the
    Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are also available free of charge through the
    Company’s website (www.itw.com), as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or
    otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are
    available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Also
    posted on the Company’s website are the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Statement of Principles of Conduct;








     
        • 

    
    Code of Ethics for CEO and key financial and accounting
    personnel;








     
        • 

    
    Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating and
    Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors; and








     
        • 

    
    Corporate Governance Guidelines.










 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The Company’s business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows are subject to various risks,
    including, but not limited to those set forth below, which could
    cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or
    from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be
    considered together with information included elsewhere in this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    An
    interruption or slowdown of economic recovery in the markets
    served by the Company could adversely affect our business
    operating results or financial condition.


 


    Although recently most of our end markets have shown significant
    recovery from the global recession, we cannot be certain that
    the recovery will continue globally as anticipated. An
    interruption or slowdown of the economic recovery in one or more
    of our significant markets could have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, results of operations or financial
    condition.


 



    The
    global nature of our operations subjects the Company to
    political and economic risks that could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations or financial
    condition.


 


    The Company currently operates in 57 countries. In 2010,
    approximately 58% of the Company’s revenues were generated
    from sales to customers outside of the United States. As the
    Company continues to expand its global footprint, these sales
    may represent an increasing portion of the Company’s
    revenues. The risks inherent in our global operations include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fluctuation in currency exchange rates;








     
        • 

    
    limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;








     
        • 

    
    transportation delays and interruptions;








     
        • 

    
    political, social and economic instability and disruptions;








     
        • 

    
    government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions;








     
        • 

    
    the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;







    
    8



Table of Contents









    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    import and export controls;








     
        • 

    
    labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;








     
        • 

    
    the potential for nationalization of enterprises;








     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;








     
        • 

    
    limitations on its ability to enforce legal rights and
    remedies; and








     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences.





 


    If the Company is unable to successfully manage these and other
    risks associated with managing and expanding its international
    businesses, the risks could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s business, results of operations or financial
    condition.


 



    Our
    acquisition of businesses could negatively impact our
    profitability and return on invested capital.


 


    As part of our business strategy, we acquire businesses in the
    ordinary course. Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and
    financial, accounting, managerial and operational challenges,
    including the following, any of which could adversely affect our
    growth and profitability:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Any acquired business, technology, service or product could
    under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we
    paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated
    timetable.








     
        • 

    
    Acquisitions could cause our financial results to differ from
    our expectations in any given fiscal period, or over the long
    term.








     
        • 

    
    Acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact
    operating results.








     
        • 

    
    Acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on our
    management, operational resources and financial and internal
    control systems.








     
        • 

    
    We may assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities
    that become realized or known liabilities that prove greater
    than anticipated. The realization of any of these liabilities
    may increase our expenses or adversely affect our financial
    position.








     
        • 

    
    As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant
    goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets on our balance
    sheet. If we are not able to realize the value of these assets,
    we may incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets.





 



    We may
    incur fines or penalties, damage to our reputation or other
    adverse consequences if our employees, agents or business
    partners violate anti-bribery or other laws.


 


    We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will
    always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by
    our employees, agents or business partners that would violate
    U.S. and/or
    non-U.S. laws,
    including anti-bribery laws, competition, and export and import
    compliance. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil
    or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other
    jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal
    monetary and non-monetary penalties against us or our
    subsidiaries, and could damage our reputation.


 



    A
    significant fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other
    currencies could adversely impact our operating
    income.


 


    Although the Company’s financial results are reported in
    U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our sales and
    operating costs are realized in other currencies, with the
    largest concentration of foreign sales occurring in Europe. The
    Company’s profitability is affected by movements of the
    U.S. dollar against the euro and other foreign currencies
    in which we generate revenues and incur expenses. Significant
    long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in
    particular an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar
    against foreign currencies, could have an adverse effect on our
    profitability and financial condition.


 



    Diminished
    credit availability could adversely impact our ability to
    readily obtain financing or to obtain cost-effective
    financing.


 


    A deterioration in world financial markets and decreases in
    credit availability could make it more difficult for us to
    obtain financing when desired or cause the cost of financing to
    increase.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    Raw
    material price increases and supply shortages could adversely
    affect results.


 


    The supply of raw materials to the Company and to its component
    parts suppliers could be interrupted for a variety of reasons,
    including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials
    necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the
    past and significant increases could adversely affect the
    Company’s results of operations and profit margins. Due to
    pricing pressure or other factors, the Company may not be able
    to pass along increased raw material and components parts prices
    to its customers in the form of price increases or its ability
    to do so could be delayed. Consequently, its results of
    operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.


 



    If the
    Company is unable to successfully introduce new products or
    adequately protect its intellectual property, its future growth
    may be adversely affected.


 


    The Company’s ability to develop new products based on
    innovation can affect its competitive position and often
    requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties
    or delays in research, development or production of new products
    and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new
    products and technologies may reduce future revenues and
    adversely affect the Company’s competitive position.


 


    Protecting the Company’s intellectual property is critical
    to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents,
    trademarks and licenses related to its products and has
    exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by
    others. The Company’s intellectual property may be
    challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in
    countries where property rights are not highly developed or
    protected, or the Company may be unable to maintain, renew or
    enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of
    intellectual property on reasonable terms. Unauthorized use of
    the Company’s intellectual property rights or inability to
    preserve existing intellectual property rights could adversely
    impact the Company’s competitive position and results of
    operations.


 



    An
    unfavorable environment for making acquisitions may adversely
    affect the Company’s growth rate.


 


    The Company has historically followed a strategy of identifying
    and acquiring businesses with complementary products and
    services as well as larger acquisitions that represent potential
    new platforms. There can be no assurance that the Company will
    be able to continue to find suitable businesses to purchase or
    that it will be able to acquire such businesses on acceptable
    terms. If the Company is unsuccessful in its efforts, its growth
    rate could be adversely affected.


 



    Unfavorable
    tax law changes and tax authority rulings may adversely affect
    results.


 


    The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and
    in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax
    liabilities are based on the income and expenses in various tax
    jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate could be
    adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings among
    countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the
    valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or tax laws. The
    amount of income taxes and other taxes are subject to ongoing
    audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and
    by
    non-U.S. authorities.
    If these audits result in assessments different from amounts
    recorded, future financial results may include unfavorable tax
    adjustments.


 



    Our
    defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market
    risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    The performance of the financial markets and interest rates
    impact our funding obligations under our defined benefit pension
    plans. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases
    in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan
    assets may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact
    our results of operations and cash flows.




    
    10



Table of Contents






    Potential
    adverse outcome in legal proceedings may adversely affect
    results.


 


    The Company’s businesses expose it to potential toxic tort
    and other types of product liability claims that are inherent in
    the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the
    products of third-party vendors. The Company currently maintains
    insurance programs consisting of self insurance up to certain
    limits and excess insurance coverage for claims over established
    limits. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able
    to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance
    programs will provide adequate protection against actual losses.
    In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that one or more
    of its insurers may become insolvent and become unable to pay
    claims that may be made in the future. Even if it maintains
    adequate insurance programs, successful claims could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    condition, liquidity and results of operations and on its
    ability to obtain suitable, adequate or cost-effective insurance
    in the future.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Statements


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words
    such as “believe,” “expect,”
    “plans,” “strategy,” “prospects,”
    “estimate,” “project,” “target,”
    “anticipate,” “guidance,”
    “forecast,” and other similar words, including,
    without limitation, statements regarding the availability of raw
    materials and energy, the expiration of any one of the
    Company’s patents, the cost of compliance with
    environmental regulations, the anticipated improvement of
    worldwide end markets in 2011, the adequacy of internally
    generated funds and credit facilities, the meeting of dividend
    payout objectives, the ability to fund debt service obligations,
    the Company’s portion of future benefit payments related to
    pension and postretirement benefits, expected contributions to
    defined benefit plans, the availability of additional financing,
    the outcome of outstanding legal proceedings, the impact of
    adopting new accounting pronouncements and the estimated timing
    and amount related to the resolution of tax matters. These
    statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and
    other factors, which could cause actual results to differ
    materially from those anticipated. Important risks that may
    influence future results include those risks described above.
    These risks are not all inclusive and given these and other
    possible risks and uncertainties, investors should not place
    undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of
    actual results.


 


    ITW practices fair disclosure for all interested parties.
    Investors should be aware that while ITW regularly communicates
    with securities analysts and other investment professionals, it
    is against ITW’s policy to disclose to them any material
    non-public information or other confidential commercial
    information. Shareholders should not assume that ITW agrees with
    any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of
    the content of the statement or report.







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B