Item 1A. Risk Factors” below.



    
    6



 





    Forward-Looking
    Statements


 


    This annual report on
    Form 10-K
    contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that may be
    identified by the use of words such as “believe,”
    “expect,” “plans,” “strategy,”
    “prospects,” “estimate,”
    “project,” “target,” “anticipate,”
    “guidance,” and other similar words, including,
    without limitation, statements regarding the timing of disposal
    of businesses held for sale, availability of raw materials and
    energy, the expiration of any one of the Company’s patents,
    the cost of compliance with environmental regulations, the
    adequacy of internally generated funds, the meeting of dividend
    payout objectives, the ability to fund debt service obligations,
    payments under guarantees, the Company’s portion of future
    benefit payments related to pension and postretirement benefits,
    the availability of additional financing, the outcome of
    outstanding legal proceedings, the impact of adopting new
    accounting pronouncements and the estimated amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits. These statements are subject to
    certain risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could
    cause actual results to differ materially from those
    anticipated. Important risks that may influence future results
    include (1) a further downturn in the construction, general
    industrial, automotive or food institutional/restaurant and
    service markets, (2) changes or deterioration in
    international and domestic business and economic conditions,
    particularly in North America, Europe, Asia or Australia,
    (3) the unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations
    and costs of raw materials, (4) decreases in credit
    availibility, (5) an interruption in, or reduction in,
    introducing new products into the Company’s product lines,
    (6) an unfavorable environment for making acquisitions,
    domestic and international, including adverse accounting or
    regulatory requirements and market values of candidates, and
    (7) unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings.
    The risks covered here are not all inclusive and given these and
    other possible risks and uncertainties, investors should not
    place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a
    prediction of actual results. A more detailed description of
    these risks is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk
    Factors.”


 


    ITW practices fair disclosure for all interested parties.
    Investors should be aware that while ITW regularly communicates
    with securities analysts and other investment professionals, it
    is against ITW’s policy to disclose to them any material
    non-public information or other confidential commercial
    information. Shareholders should not assume that ITW agrees with
    any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of
    the content of the statement or report.


 



    Executive
    Officers


 


    Executive Officers of the Company as of February 27, 2009
    were as follows:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Office



 



    Age




 





    Sharon M. Brady



 


    Senior Vice President, Human Resources


 

 


    58

 





    Robert E. Brunner



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    51

 





    Russell M. Flaum



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    58

 





    Philip M. Gresh, Jr. 



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    60

 





    Thomas J. Hansen



 


    Vice Chairman


 

 


    60

 





    Craig A. Hindman



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    54

 





    Ronald D. Kropp



 


    Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer


 

 


    43

 





    Roland M. Martel



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    54

 





    Steven L. Martindale



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    52

 





    David C. Parry



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    55

 





    E. Scott Santi



 


    Vice Chairman


 

 


    47

 





    David B. Speer



 


    Chairman & Chief Executive Officer


 

 


    57

 





    Allan C. Sutherland



 


    Senior Vice President, Taxes & Investments


 

 


    45

 





    Juan Valls



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    47

 





    Jane L. Warner



 


    Executive Vice President


 

 


    62

 





    James H. Wooten, Jr. 



 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary


 

 


    60

 









    
    7



 




    The executive officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of
    the Board of Directors. Except for Mses. Brady and Warner and
    Messrs. Brunner, Hindman, Kropp, Martel, Martindale, Parry,
    Santi, Valls and Wooten, each of the foregoing officers has been
    employed by the Company in various elected executive capacities
    for more than five years. Ms. Brady was elected Senior Vice
    President of Human Resources in 2006. Prior to joining the
    Company in 2006, she was Vice President and Chief Human Resource
    Officer of Snap-On Inc. Ms. Warner was elected Executive
    Vice President in 2007. Prior to joining the Company in 2005 as
    President of worldwide finishing, she was President of Plexus
    Systems and a Vice President of EDS. Mr. Brunner was
    elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company
    in 1980 and has held various management positions with the
    automotive fasteners businesses. Mr. Hindman was elected
    Executive Vice President in 2004. He joined the Company in 1976
    and has held various sales, marketing and general management
    positions with the construction products businesses.
    Mr. Kropp was elected Senior Vice President & Chief
    Financial Officer in 2006. He joined the Company in 1993. He has
    held various financial management positions and was appointed as
    Vice President and Controller, Financial Reporting in 2002 and
    was designated Principal Accounting Officer in 2005.
    Mr. Martel was elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He
    joined the Company in 1994 and has held various management
    positions in the automotive and metal components businesses.
    Mr. Martindale was elected Executive Vice President in
    2008. Prior to joining the Company in 2005 as President of the
    test and measurement businesses, he was Chief Financial Officer
    and Chief Operating Officer of Instron. Mr. Parry was
    elected Executive Vice President in 2006. He joined the Company
    in 1994 and has held various management positions in the
    performance polymers businesses. Mr. Santi was elected Vice
    Chairman in 2008 and previously was elected Executive Vice
    President in 2004. He joined the Company in 1983 and has held
    various sales, marketing and general management positions with
    the construction products, machined components and welding
    businesses. Mr. Valls was elected Executive Vice President
    in 2007. Prior to his new appointment, he was Vice President and
    General Manager of ITW Delfast International. He joined the
    Company in 1989 and has held various management positions in the
    European automotive businesses. Mr. Wooten was elected
    Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate
    Secretary in 2006. He joined the Company in 1988 and has held
    positions of increasing responsibility in the legal department.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    The Company electronically files reports with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any
    materials the Company has filed with the SEC at the SEC’s
    Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site
    (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and
    information statements, and other information regarding issuers
    that file electronically with the SEC. Copies of the
    Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are also available free of charge through the
    Company’s website (www.itw.com), as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronically filing with or
    otherwise furnishing such information to the SEC, and are
    available in print to any shareholder who requests it. Also
    posted on the Company’s website are the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Statement of Principles of Conduct;








     
        • 

    
    Code of Ethics for CEO and key financial and accounting
    personnel;








     
        • 

    
    Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating and
    Compensation Committees of the Board of Directors; and








     
        • 

    
    Corporate Governance Guidelines.









 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The Company’s business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows are subject to various risks,
    including, but not limited to those set forth below, which could
    cause actual results to vary materially from recent results or
    from anticipated future results. These risk factors should be
    considered together with information included elsewhere in this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    In addition, the Company is subject to substantially the same
    risk factors as other
    U.S.-based
    global industrial manufacturers, although the Company



    
    8



 




    believes that its decentralized structure and the broad array of
    end markets that its businesses serve help to mitigate the
    possibility that any single risk factor will materially
    adversely affect the Company’s consolidated financial
    position.


 



    A
    downturn or further downturn in certain of the major markets
    served by the Company could materially adversely affect
    results.


 


    Certain of the Company’s businesses directly or indirectly
    serve the construction, general industrial, automotive or food
    institutional/restaurant and service markets. The current global
    economic crisis has caused downturns in many industrial markets
    and severe downturns in several markets, including the
    construction and automotive markets. There can be no assurance
    as to when economic conditions will improve. A further or
    unexpectedly sustained downturn in one or more of these markets
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business, results of operations or financial condition.


 



    The
    global nature of our operations subjects the Company to
    political and economic risks that could adversly affect our
    business, results of operations or financial
    condition.


 


    The Company currently has approximately 875 business units in 54
    countries. In 2008, approximately 59% of the Company’s
    revenues were generated outside of the United States. As the
    Company continues to expand its global footprint these sales may
    represent an ever increasing portion of the Company’s
    revenues. The risks inherent in our global operations include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    fluctuation in currency exchange rates;








     
        • 

    
    limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings;








     
        • 

    
    transportation delays and interruptions;








     
        • 

    
    political, social and economic instability and disruptions;








     
        • 

    
    government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions;








     
        • 

    
    the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;








     
        • 

    
    import and export controls;








     
        • 

    
    labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments;








     
        • 

    
    the potential for nationalization of enterprises;








     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;








     
        • 

    
    limitations on its ability to enforce legal rights and
    remedies; and








     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences.





 


    If the Company is unable to successfully manage these and other
    risks associated with managing and expanding its international
    businesses, the risks could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s business, results of operations or financial
    condition.


 



    A
    significant currency fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar and
    other currencies could adversely impact our operating
    income.


 


    Although the Company’s financial results are reported in
    U.S. Dollars, a significant portion of our sales and
    operating costs are realized in other foreign currencies, with
    the largest concentration of foreign sales occurring in Europe.
    The Company’s profitability is affected by movements of the
    U.S. Dollar against the Euro and other foreign currencies
    in which we generate revenues and incur expenses. Significant
    long-term fluctuations in relative currency values, in
    particular an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar
    against foreign currencies, could have an adverse effect on our
    profitability and financial condition.


 



    Further
    diminished credit availability could adversely impact our
    ability to readily obtain financing.


 


    Recent economic conditions have not materially impaired our
    ability to access credit or obtain appropriate financing. There
    can be no assurance, however, that there will not be a further
    deterioration in world financial markets and decreases in credit
    availability. Such further deterioration could make it more
    difficult for us to obtain financing when desired or cause the
    cost of financing to increase.



    
    9



 





    Raw
    material price increases and supply shortages could adversly
    affect results.


 


    The supply of raw materials to the Company and to its component
    parts suppliers could be interrupted for a variety of reasons,
    including availability and pricing. Prices for raw materials
    necessary for production have fluctuated significantly in the
    past and significant increases could adversely affect the
    Company’s results of operations and profit margins. While
    the Company generally attempts to pass along increased raw
    material and component parts prices to its customers in the form
    of price increases, there may be a time delay between the
    increased prices to the Company and the Company’s ability
    to increase the prices of its products, or it may be unable to
    increase the prices of its products due to pricing pressure or
    other factors. Consequently, its results of operations and
    financial condition may be materially adversely affected.


 



    If the
    Company is unable to successfully introduce new products or
    adequately protect its intellectual property, its future growth
    may be impaired.


 


    The Company’s ability to develop new products based on
    innovation can affect its competitive position and often
    requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties
    or delays in research, development or production of new products
    and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new
    products and technologies may significantly reduce future
    revenues and materially adversely affect the Company’s
    competitive position.


 


    Protecting the Company’s intellectual property is critical
    to its innovation efforts. The Company owns a number of patents,
    trademarks and licenses related to its products and has
    exclusive and non-exclusive rights under patents owned by
    others. The Company’s intellectual property may be
    challenged or infringed upon by third parties or the Company may
    be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license
    agreements with third party owners of intellectual property on
    reasonable terms. Unauthorized use of the Company’s
    intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing
    intellectual property rights could materially adversely impact
    the Company’s competitive position and results of
    operations.


 



    An
    unfavorable environment for making acquisitions may adversely
    affect the Company’s future growth.


 


    The Company has historically followed a strategy of identifying
    and acquiring businesses with complementary products and
    services as well as larger acquisitions that represent potential
    new platforms. However, there can be no assurance that the
    Company will be able to continue to find suitable businesses to
    purchase or that it will be able to acquire such businesses on
    acceptable terms. If the Company is unsuccessful in its efforts,
    its ability to continue to grow could be adversely affected.


 



    Unfavorable
    tax law changes and tax authority rulings may adversely affect
    results.


 


    The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and
    in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax
    liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among
    various tax jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate
    could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings
    among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in
    the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or tax laws. The
    amount of income taxes and other taxes are subject to ongoing
    audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and
    by
    non-U.S. authorities.
    If these audits result in assessments different from amounts
    recorded, future financial results may include unfavorable tax
    adjustments.


 



    Potential
    adverse outcome in legal proceedings may adversely affect
    results.


 


    The Company’s businesses expose it to potential toxic tort
    and other types of product liability claims that are inherent in
    the design, manufacture and sale of its products and the
    products of third-party vendors that it uses or resells. The
    Company currently maintains what it believes to be suitable and
    adequate insurance programs consisting of self insurance up to
    certain limits and excess insurance coverage for claims over
    established limits. There can be no assurance, however, that the
    Company will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or
    that its insurance programs will provide adequate protection
    against actual losses. In addition, the Company is subject to
    the risk that one or more of its insurers may become insolvent
    and become unable to pay claims that may be made in the future.
    Even if it maintains adequate insurance programs, successful
    claims could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of
    operations and on the ability to obtain suitable or adequate
    insurance in the future.



    
    10



 







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B