Item 1A.  We assume no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will
not be achieved for any reason.

 

PART I

 

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

 

We are one of the largest surface transportation
companies in North America.  J.B. Hunt
Transport Services, Inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together
with our wholly owned subsidiaries and affiliated companies, provides a wide
range of transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the
continental United States, Canada and Mexico. 
Unless otherwise indicated by the context, “we,” “us,” “our” and “JBHT”
refer to J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. and its consolidated
subsidiaries.  We were incorporated in
Arkansas on August 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since
our initial public offering in 1983.  Our
wide scope of scalable service offerings is relatively uncommon in the industry
and ranges from full-load containerized freight transportation over highways
and railroads to individual deliveries to small businesses and personal
residences.  We have arrangements with
most of the major North American rail carriers to transport freight in containers
and trailers.  We also provide customized
freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems services that are
tailored to meet individual customer’s requirements and typically involve
longer-term contracts.  These
arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include
multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling,
specialized equipment and network design. 
We also provide integrated capacity and comprehensive transportation and
logistics services and solutions by utilizing a network of thousands of
reliable third-party carriers.  While
these unrelated outside carriers, at times, supplement our dry-van, full-load
operations, they also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (LTL)
and other specialized equipment, drivers and services.

 

Our business operations are primarily organized
through four distinct, but complementary, business segments.  These segments include intermodal (JBI),
dedicated contract services (DCS), full-load dry-van (JBT) and integrated
capacity solutions (ICS).  Our business
is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher 

 

3












Table
of Contents

 

freight volumes typically experienced during August through early
November.  Our DCS segment is subject to
less seasonal variation than our other segments.  For the calendar year ended December 31,
2008, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.7 billion, after the elimination of
intersegment business.  Of the total, 52%
was generated by our JBI business segment, 25% by DCS, 18% by JBT and 5% by
ICS.

 

Additional general information about us is available
from our Internet website at www.jbhunt.com. 
We make a number of reports and other information available free of
charge on our website, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our proxy
statement and our earnings releases.  Our
website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our
whistleblower policy, Board committee charters and other corporate policies.

 

OUR MISSION AND STRATEGY

 

We
forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain
management as an integral part of their strategy.  Working in concert, we drive out cost, add
value and function as an extension of our customers’ enterprise.  We believe that our operating strategy can
add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders.

 

RECENT FOCUS

 

Our
recent focus has been to maximize the return on our invested capital and to
generate free cash flow to reduce outstanding debt.  We continuously analyze where capital
expenditures yield the best return and allocate funds to those business units
and specific activities inside the business unit.  Unacceptable returns in various areas have
caused us to reduce certain of these business models or exit those activities
within the business model.  Our goal is
to become more asset-light in the services we provide, but to continue to grow
with new and existing customers by providing the most efficient transportation
solutions to their supply chains. 
Examples of steps taken to reach those goals include the continued
contraction of the JBT business unit coupled with the growth in our ICS
business unit, the expansion of our eastern intermodal network, the repayment
of approximately $280 million in outstanding debt in 2008, and the expansion of
our new customer base.  We also continue
to direct our dedicated business unit toward providing best-in-class service in
applications that require unique and specialized services ranging from retail
and small-business replenishment to deliveries at personal residences.

 

Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient
transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions.  Our intermodal service addresses both
demands.  We are customizing dedicated
solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions.  Efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are
ongoing, and we are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWaySM Transport Partner.

 

As
always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to
conduct all of our operations as safely as possible.

 

OPERATING SEGMENTS

 

Segment
information is also included in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

 

JBI Segment

 

The transportation service offerings of our JBI
segment utilize arrangements with most major North American rail carriers to
provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental
United States, Canada and Mexico.  Our
JBI segment began operations in 1989 with a unique partnership with the former
Santa Fe Railway (now the BNSF Railway Company), a watershed event in the
industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers
in a joint marketing environment. 
Essentially, JBI draws on the intermodal (also known as “container on
flatcar”) services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its
equipment and performs the pickups and deliveries (“drayage”) for customers at
the origin and destination rail terminal locations.  We provide the drayage service at either the
origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our company-owned tractors for the
majority of our intermodal loads, but utilize third parties where
economical.  Performing our own dray 

 

4












Table
of Contents

 

services keeps costs lower and improves customer service.  JBI provides seamless coordination of the
rail and dray movements for our customers and delivers a single billing for the
complete door-to-door service.

 

Our intermodal program has grown to more than 837,000
loads in 2008.  JBI operates 39,161
company-controlled containers systemwide. 
The entire fleet comprises 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed
to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride
quality.  JBI also manages a fleet of
2,124 company-owned tractors and 2,633 company drivers that provide efficiency
to our intermodal operations.  At December 31,
2008, the total JBI employee count was 2,913. 
Revenue for the JBI segment in 2008 was $1.95 billion, compared with
$1.65 billion in 2007.

 

DCS Segment

 

DCS offers transportation services that generally are
not provided by common truckload carriers or intermodal due to strict service
requirements, specialized equipment, and intense driver and delivery personnel
demands.  Our operations are managed on
site by transportation professionals who work in concert daily with the
customer and our drivers to ensure we deliver their product or service on time
in a safe and cost-effective manner.  All
operations are governed by longer-term contracts that typically include fixed
cost components related to dedicated specialized equipment and fuel surcharge
programs on round-trip miles.  These
contracts combined with our best-in-class execution allow DCS to retain its
customer base with consistent margins.

 

DCS revenue for 2008 was $927 million, compared with
$937 million in 2007.  At December 31,
2008 our segment operated 4,454 company-controlled trucks, 101 customer-owned
trucks, and 67 independent contractor trucks. 
The DCS segment employed 5,444 people at December 31, 2008.

 

JBT Segment

 

The service offering in this segment is full-load,
dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways.  We typically pick up freight at the dock or
specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the
location of the consignee.  We use our
company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who
agree to transport freight in our trailers.   
At December 31, 2008, we had 841 independent contractors operating
in the JBT segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors.  JBT revenue for 2008 was $676 million,
compared with $842 million in 2007.  At December 31,
2008, the JBT segment operated 2,489 company-owned tractors and employed 3,030
people, 2,750 of whom were drivers.

 

In 2008, we entered into a plan to further reduce the
size of our JBT fleet and sell approximately 1,100 trailers.  This plan is consistent with our strategy as
an asset-light transportation company and our focus for growth and investment
in segments that provide the desired margins. 
We expect to sell or trade this equipment during calendar year 2009.

 

ICS Segment

 

ICS provides non-asset, asset-light, and
transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with
thousands of third-party carriers and integration with JBHT-owned
equipment.  By leveraging the JBHT brand,
systems and network, ICS brings a broader service offering to customers by
providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and LTL, as well as a variety of
dry-van and intermodal solutions.  ICS provides
single source logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their
transportation functions and utilize JBHT’s proven supply-chain, technology,
and design expertise to improve efficiency. 
ICS operates outside offices as well as on-site logistics personnel
working in direct contact with customers. 
ICS revenue for 2008 was $209 million, compared with $92 million in
2007.  At December 31, 2008, the ICS
segment employed 278 people.

 

Logistics Business and Affiliated
Company

 

We
own a 37% equity interest in a global transportation and logistics company,
Transplace, Inc. (TPI). TPI is co-owned by five large transportation
companies and provides a blend of logistics technology and 

 

5












Table of Contents

 

transportation management services. 
Our share of TPI’s financial results is included on a one-line
nonoperating item included on our Consolidated Statements of Earnings titled “equity
in loss of affiliated company.”

 

Marketing and Operations

 

We
transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight,
including general merchandise, food and beverages, forest and paper products,
building materials, chemicals and automotive parts.  Our customer base is extremely diverse and
includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies.  Our ability to offer multiple services,
utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics
services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage.  We provide a broad range of transportation
services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of “core”
carriers.  We have no customers that
represent 10% or more of our total revenue in 2008.

 

We
generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and
marketing network.  We use a specific
sales force in DCS due to the length, complexity and specialization of the
sales cycle and ICS has its own proactive local branch salespeople.  In accordance with our typical arrangements,
we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties
for their portion of transportation services provided.

 

People

 

We
believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our
service-oriented people.  As of December 31,
2008, we had 14,667 employees, including 10,022 company drivers, 1,197
mechanics and 3,448 office personnel.  We
also had arrangements with more than 900 independent contractors to transport
freight in our trailing equipment.  None
of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining
agreements.

 

Revenue Equipment

 

Our
JBI segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the
chassis and double-stacked on rail cars. 
We continue the process of expanding our container fleet and
reconditioning our chassis fleet.  The
composition of our DCS trailing fleet also varies with specific customer
requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side
vans, straight trucks and dump trailers. 
Our JBT segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers.  We continue to execute our strategy of
reducing the size of the JBT segment.  We
primarily utilize third-party carriers’ tractor and trailing equipment for our
ICS segment; however, certain loads will utilize third-party carriers’ tractors
powering our trailing equipment.

 

As
of December 31, 2008, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted
of 9,067 units.  In addition, we had 912
independent contractors, who operate their own tractors, but transport freight
in our trailing equipment.  We operate
with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our
JBI and JBT fleets.  Based on our
customers’ preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is
extremely diversified.  We believe
operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer
service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense.  At December 31, 2008, the average age of
our combined tractor fleet was 3.3 years, our containers averaged 5.3 years of
age and our trailers averaged 7.2 years. 
We perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment
at most of our regional terminal facilities.

 

Effective
with model-year 2007 tractors, the EPA mandated lower emission standards for
newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. 
The 2007 EPA-compliant engines show a slight reduction in miles per
gallon and an increase in operating costs. 
Further, the acquisition costs of these new engines have increased by
approximately 10%.  A new set of more
stringent emissions standards will become effective for newly manufactured
tractor engines in January 2010.

 

6












Table of Contents

 

Competition and the Industry

 

The
freight transportation market in which we operate is frequently referred to as
highly fragmented and competitive.  Our
JBI segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies as well as other
full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation
service.  Considering the diversified
nature of the services provided by our DCS segment, competition ranges from
large diversified carriers to local transportation and delivery service
carriers.  Our ICS segment utilizes the
fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based
logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers.  The full-load freight competition of our JBT
segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small.  While we compete with a number of smaller
carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent
competition in all markets across the country.

 

We
compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of
on-time pickup and delivery service, price, revenue equipment and availability
of carriers for logistics services.

 

Regulation

 

Our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by
the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration (FMCSA), and certain business is also subject to state rules and
regulations.  The DOT periodically conducts
reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety
requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the
DOT.  Our operations into and out of
Canada and Mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries.

 

In
November 2008, the FMCSA adopted final provisions of the Agency’s December 17,
2007, interim final rule concerning hours of service for commercial
vehicle drivers.  This final rule allows
drivers to continue to drive up to 11 hours within a 14-hour nonextendable
window from the start of the workday, following at least 10 consecutive hours
off duty.  The rule also allows
motor carriers and drivers to continue to restart calculations of weekly
on-duty limits after the driver has at least 34 consecutive hours off
duty.  The rule was effective January 19,
2009.  We continue to monitor the actions
of the FMCSA.

 

ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS

 

In
addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this Form 10-K
and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk
factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business.  Our business, financial condition or
financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these
risks.

 

Our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any
of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.  Recent economic trends and
the current tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect
our ability, and the ability of our suppliers, to obtain financing for
operations and capital expenditures.

 

Our
business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse
effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our
control.  These factors include
interference with, or termination of, our relationships with certain railroads,
significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes,
interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in
the trucking industry, license and registration fees, terrorist attacks or
actions, acts of war, adverse weather conditions, increased costs for new
revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment, surpluses in the
market for used equipment, and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified
drivers and independent contractors.

 

We
are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’
business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail
and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers.  Economic conditions represent a greater
potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt
losses.  In addition, our results of
operations may be affected by seasonal factors. 
Customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and 

 

7












Table of Contents

 

our
operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to
colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time
and higher maintenance costs.

 

We depend on third parties in the operation of our business.

 

Our
JBI business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its
transportation services.  The majority of
these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the
railroads.  While we have agreements with
various Class I railroads, the majority of our business travels on the Burlington
Northern Santa Fe and the Norfolk Southern railways.  The inability to utilize one or more of these
railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating
results.  In addition, a portion of the
freight we deliver is imported to the United States through ports of call that
are subject to labor union contracts. 
Work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could
have a material adverse effect on our business.

 

Our
ICS business segment utilizes third-party carriers.  Aside from periodic use of our trailing
equipment to fulfill certain loads, we do not own or control the revenue
equipment or drivers delivering the loads. 
The inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could have a
material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth.

 

We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major
customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

 

For
the calendar year ended December 31, 2008, our top 10 customers, based on
revenue, accounted for approximately 35% of our revenue.  Our JBI, JBT and ICS segments typically do
not have long-term contracts with their customers.  While our DCS segment business may involve a
written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there
is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our
services or that they will continue at the same levels.  A reduction in or termination of our services
by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on
our business and operating results.

 

Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our
earnings.

 

Our
future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which
could reduce our earnings.  During 2006
and 2007, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for all claims was
$500,000 per occurrence.  During 2008,
the self-insured portion of our claims was $500,000 per occurrence for personal
injury and property damage and $1 million per occurrence for workers’
compensation.  If the number or severity
of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could
be adversely affected.  We have renewed
our policies for 2009 with substantially the same terms as our 2008
policies.  We purchase insurance coverage
for the amounts above which we are self-insured.  If these expenses increase, and we are unable
to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be
materially and adversely affected.

 

We operate in a regulated industry, and increased
direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of,
existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our
business.

 

The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad
powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization
to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial
reporting.  We are audited periodically
by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety,
hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations.  If we were found to be out of compliance, the
DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our operations.

 

We
continue to monitor actions taken by the FMCSA. 
Significant changes in hours-of-service regulations and other motor
carrier safety regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower
driver productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and
recordkeeping equipment.

 

8












Table of Contents

 

Effective
with model-year 2007 tractors, the EPA mandated lower emission standards for
newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. 
The acquisition costs of these new engines have increased by
approximately 10%.  A new set of more
stringent emissions standards will become effective for newly manufactured
tractor engines in January 2010. 
While it is too early to assess the impact of the new standards, our
fuel costs, operating costs and acquisition costs could be impacted.

 

Our operations are subject to various
environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in
substantial fines or penalties.

 

We are subject to various environmental laws and
regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel
storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water.  We operate in industrial areas, where truck
terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or
other forms of environmental contamination have occurred.  Our operations involve the risks of fuel
spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among
others.  We also maintain bulk fuel
storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities.  If a spill or other accident involving
hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of
applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our
business and operating results.  If we
should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be
subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.

 

Rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our
periodic financial results.

 

During
the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has varied significantly.  We have a fuel surcharge revenue program in
place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to
recover the majority of higher fuel costs. 
Most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost
of fuel.  However, there can be timing
differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel
surcharges billed to our customers.  In
addition, we incur additional costs when fuel prices rise that cannot be fully
recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty
or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers.  Rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of
fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future
profitability.  As of December 31,
2008, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to
fuel-price fluctuations.

 

Difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel and
third-party carriers could affect our profitability and ability to grow.

 

Periodically,
we have experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers,
including independent contractors.  If we
are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of employees or contract
with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly
increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle or
dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect our growth
and profitability.  In addition, our ICS
segment growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers
which we rely upon to provide transportation services.

 

We operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry.  Numerous factors could impair our ability to
maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and
private fleets.

 

We
compete with many other transportation services providers of varying sizes and,
to a lesser extent, with LTL carriers and railroads, some of which have more
equipment and greater capital resources than we do.  Additionally, some of our competitors
periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during
times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to
maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins.

 

In
an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects
so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in
some instances we may not be selected. 
Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their
shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the
loss of some business to competitors. 
Also, certain customers that 

 

9












Table of Contents

 

operate
private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their
operations, thereby reducing their need for our services.

 

Extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt
our operations, impact freight volumes and increase our costs, all of which
could have a material adverse effect on our business results.

 

Certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can
disrupt our operations.  Increases in
costs relating to towing and other maintenance frequently occur during the
winter months of our business.  Natural
disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and
increase our costs.

 

ITEM 1B