Item 1A.  We assume no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will
not be achieved for any reason.

 

PART I

 

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

 

OVERVIEW

 

        We are one of the largest surface transportation companies in
North America.  J.B. Hunt Transport
Services, Inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our
wholly owned subsidiaries and affiliated companies, provides a wide range of
transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout the continental
United States, Canada and Mexico.  Unless
otherwise indicated by the context, “we,” “us,” “our” and “JBHT” refer to J.B.
Hunt Transport Services, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  We were incorporated in Arkansas on August 10,
1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering
in 1983.  Our service offerings include
transportation of full-load freight, which we directly transport in multimodal
arrangements utilizing our company-owned revenue equipment and company drivers,
independent contractors, or third parties. 
This full-load freight may be transported entirely by truck over roads
and highways, or may be moved, in part, by rail.  We have arrangements with most of the major
North American rail carriers to transport freight in containers and
trailers.  We also provide customized
freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems services that are
tailored to meet individual customers’ requirements and typically involve
long-term contracts.  These arrangements
are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple
pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized
equipment and network design.  We also
provide integrated capacity and comprehensive transportation services and solutions
by utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers.  While these unrelated outside carriers at
times supplement our dry van, full-load operations, they also provide flatbed,
refrigerated, less-than-truckload and other specialized equipment, drivers and
services.  In addition, we have a 37%
ownership interest in a global transportation logistics company, Transplace, Inc.
(TPI).  TPI is co-owned by five large
transportation companies and provides supplemental sales, management and freight-movement
services through arrangements with a large number of common carriers.

 

 

3












 

        Our business operations are primarily organized through four
distinct, but complementary, business segments. 
These segments include intermodal (JBI), dedicated contract services
(DCS), full-load dry-van (JBT) and integrated capacity solutions (ICS).  Our business is somewhat seasonal with
slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during the months of August through
early November.  Our DCS segment is
subject to less seasonal variation than our other segments.  For the calendar year ended December 31,
2007, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.5 billion, after the elimination of
inter-segment business.  Of the total,
$1.7 billion, or 47%, was generated by our JBI business segment.  Our DCS segment represented $937 million, or
27%, of total revenue.  Our JBT segment
generated $842 million, or 24%, and our ICS segment generated $92 million, or
2%.

 

        Additional general information about us is available from our
Internet website at www.jbhunt.com.  We make a number of reports and other
information available free of charge on our website, including our annual
report on Form 10-K, our proxy statement and our earnings releases.  Our website also contains corporate
governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, committee
charters for our Board of Directors and other corporate policies.

 

OUR MISSION AND STRATEGY

 

        We forge long-term
partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an
integral part of their strategy.  Working
in concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our
customers’ enterprise.  We believe that
our operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and
returns to stockholders.

 

RECENT FOCUS

 

        During the past several
years, we have taken significant steps to re-establish a primary focus on the
profitability of our business segments. 
In each segment we have implemented capacity-management decision-making
processes that result in the deployment of our assets where we believe they
will generate more profit.  We
continually focus on replacing less-profitable freight with higher-margin
freight and lanes.  Selective pricing
actions and ensuring that we properly charge for all services provided have
also been areas of major focus.  Recent
examples of actions taken to redeploy our assets include: 1) a decision to sell
certain revenue equipment within our JBT business segment; 2) expanding the
number of third-party carriers that provide us with transportation services,
and 3) growing our ICS business with new and existing customers.  Each of these are discussed in more detail in
the operating segments’ sections.

 

        Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient
transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions.  Our intermodal service addresses both
demands.  We are also beginning to
customize dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon
emissions.  Efforts to improve fleet fuel
efficiency are ongoing, and we are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
SmartWaySM Transport Partner.

 

        In addition, fundamental
changes in shipper supply-chain transportation logistics have resulted in the
conversion of freight from traditional random truckload to intermodal and
dedicated operations.  We continue to
ingrain safety into our corporate culture and conduct all of our operations as
safely as possible.

 

OPERATING SEGMENTS

 

        Segment
information is also included in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

 

JBI Segment

 

        The
transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements with
most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions
for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and
Mexico.  Our JBI segment began operations
in 1989 with a unique 

 

 

4












 

partnership with the former Santa Fe Railway
(now the BNSF Railway Company), a watershed event in the industry and the first
agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint marketing
environment.  Essentially, JBI draws on
the intermodal (also known as “container on flatcar”) services of rail carriers
for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment and performs the pickups
and deliveries (“drayage”) for customers at the origin and destination rail
terminal locations. We may directly provide the drayage service at either the
origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our company-owned tractors, or we may
purchase these services from third parties. 
JBI provides seamless coordination of the rail and over-the-road
transport movements for our customers and delivers a single billing for the
complete door-to-door service.

 

        Our
intermodal program has grown from 20 loads in late 1989 to more than 738,000 in
2007.  JBI operates 34,019
company-controlled containers system wide. 
The entire fleet comprises 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed
to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride
quality.  JBI also manages a fleet of
1,795 company-owned tractors and 2,232 company drivers in support of intermodal
operations.  At December 31, 2007,
the total JBI employee count was 2,494. 
Revenue for the JBI segment in calendar year 2007 was $1.65 billion,
compared with $1.43 billion in 2006.  As
previously announced, an arbitration process with the BNSF Railway Company
(BNI) was concluded during the third quarter 2005.  In accordance with the settlement terms, we
paid BNI $25.8 million.  In addition,
this settlement also resulted in higher rail purchased transportation expenses
effective October 1, 2005.  Normal
commercial business activity continued with BNI during the approximate 15-month
arbitration process, and normal business operations have continued since the
final settlement.

 

DCS Segment

 

        Since 1992, we have
offered dedicated contract carriage as a service option.  Our DCS segment operations specialize in the
design, development and execution of customer-specific fleet solutions.  Capitalizing on advanced systems and
technologies, DCS offers transportation engineering solutions that support
private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation system
augmentation.  DCS operations typically
provide customized services that are governed by long-term contracts and
currently include dry-van, flatbed, temperature-controlled, dump trailers and
local inner-city operations.

 

        DCS
operations focus on delivering recognizable customer value through
best-in-class service, cost control and guaranteed dedicated capacity.  We utilize a proprietary methodology known as
Customer Value Delivery® (CVD) to create, measure and communicate
value generated for each customer.  DCS
leverages the JBHT freight network to reposition equipment near outbound
domiciles, thereby reducing inefficient empty miles and system cost.  We also frequently find synergy in shared
resources with the JBT and JBI segments, including terminals, drivers, maintenance
shops, bulk fuel locations and trailer pools providing further economies of
scale.  DCS revenue for calendar year
2007 was $937 million, compared with $915 million in 2006.  In early 2004, DCS began utilizing
independent contractors (ICs) and at December 31, 2007, we had 100 ICs
operating in this segment.  At December 31,
2007, our segment operated 4,941 company-controlled and 92 customer-owned
trucks and employed 6,041 people, 5,262 of whom were drivers.

 

JBT Segment

 

        Our
primary transportation service offerings classified in this segment include
full-load, dry-van freight, which is predominantly transported utilizing
company-controlled tractors operating over roads and highways.  We pick up our freight at the dock or
specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the
location of the consignee.  Our loads are
transported by our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or by ICs who
agree to transport freight in our trailers. 
This type of freight movement typically results in our billing the
customer for all applicable freight charges and, in turn, paying the third
party for their portion of the transportation services provided.  This type of service usually results in our
recognition of revenue for the entire billing and the payment to the third
party being classified as purchased transportation expense.

 

 

5












 

        We operate under the
approval of certain Canadian authorities, allowing us to transport freight to
and from all points in the continental United States to Quebec, British
Columbia and Ontario.  We have
authorization to operate directly in substantially all the Canadian provinces,
but to date we have served limited points in Canada, primarily through
interchange operations with Canadian motor carriers.  In late 2000, we began utilizing ICs in the
JBT segment and at December 31, 2007, we had 978 ICs operating in the JBT
segment, some of whom were leasing company-owned tractors.  JBT revenue for calendar year 2007 was $842
million, compared with $966 million in 2006. 
At December 31, 2007, the JBT segment operated 3,572 company-owned
tractors and employed 4,517 people, 3,635 of whom were drivers.  A portion of our JBT segment nondriver
employees provide freight solicitation, order entry and other operational
support services to our other two segments. 
We record inter-segment credits and charges to properly reflect these
inter-segment support services.

 

In December 2007, we entered into a plan to reduce the size of our
JBT fleet and sell approximately 700 tractors and 2,500 trailers.  This plan is consistent with our strategy to
move our economic model from that of a primarily asset-based truckload carrier
to an asset-light transportation company and our focus for growth and investment
in segments that provide the desired margins. 
We expect to sell this equipment during calendar year 2008.  As a result of the plan, we recorded a pretax
charge of $8.4 million in December 2007 to reduce the carrying value of
the revenue equipment to estimated fair value, less costs to sell.

 

ICS Segment

 

        ICS
provides non-asset and asset-light transportation solutions to customers
through relationships with third-party carriers and integration with JBHT owned
equipment.  This type of freight movement
typically results in our billing the customer for all applicable freight
charges and, in turn, paying the third party for their portion of the
transportation services provided.  This
type of service usually results in our recognition of revenue for the entire
billing and the payment to the third party being classified as purchased
transportation expense.  ICS services
include flatbed, refrigerated and less-than-truckload (LTL), as well as a
variety of dry van and intermodal solutions. 
ICS revenue for calendar year 2007 was $92 million, compared with $42
million in 2006.  At December 31,
2007, the ICS segment employed approximately 120 people.

 

        Prior
to 2007, ICS financial results were reported as part of the JBT segment.  Beginning January 1, 2007, we began
reporting ICS results separately.  Prior
period segment information has been reclassified to reflect this change.

 

Logistics Business and Affiliated
Company

 

        Effective July 1,
2000, we contributed an existing logistics segment business to a newly formed
company, Transplace, Inc. (TPI). 
TPI is a non-asset-based third-party logistics provider offering a blend
of logistics technology and transportation management services.  Our share of TPI’s financial results is
included on a one-line, nonoperating item included on our Consolidated
Statements of Earnings titled “equity in loss of affiliated company.”

 

Operations
in Mexico

 

        We have
provided transportation services to and from Mexico since 1989.  These services typically involve equipment
interchange operations with various Mexican motor carriers.  We provide transportation services to and
from Mexico primarily by utilizing the services of a variety of Mexican
carriers.

 

Marketing and Operations

 

        We transport, or arrange
for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including forest and paper
products, building materials, general merchandise, food and beverages,
chemicals and automotive parts.  Our
customer base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of Fortune 500
companies.  Our ability to offer multiple
services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of
logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive
advantage.  We provide a broad range of 

 

 

6












 

transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited
number of “core” carriers.  Our largest
customer in 2007 was Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which accounted for
approximately 12% of our total revenue.

 

        We generally market all of
our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network.  We do have some sales and marketing functions
managed at the business-unit level, particularly for our DCS segment.  In accordance with our typical arrangements,
we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn, pay all third parties
for their portion of transportation services provided.  In recent years, we have re-established a
primary focus on improving the profitability of each of our business segments
and charging a fair price for all services provided.

 

People

 

        We believe that one of the
factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented
people.  As of December 31, 2007, we
had 15,795 employees, including 11,129 company drivers, 1,177 mechanics and
3,489 office personnel.  We also had
arrangements with 1,084 ICs to transport freight in our trailing
equipment.  None of our employees are
represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements.

 

        While we experienced
improvements in 2007 relative to the past few years, our industry has
periodically had a difficult time attracting and retaining enough qualified
truck drivers.  It is also common for the
driver turnover rate of individual carriers to exceed 100%.  It has been our practice to compensate our
drivers at an above-average level in order to attract a higher caliber of
experience and minimize turnover.  While
we have not, to date, experienced significant operational disruptions due to
driver shortages, we expect the costs to recruit, train and retain company
drivers and ICs will continue to rise in the foreseeable future.

 

Revenue Equipment

 

        As of December 31,
2007, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 10,308 units.  In addition, we had 1,084 ICs, who operate
their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing equipment.  We operate with standardized tractors in as
many fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT fleets.  Based on our customers’ preferences and the
actual business application, our DCS fleet is more diversified.  We believe operating with relatively newer
revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers
and lowers maintenance expense.  At December 31,
2007, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 3.0 years, our trailers
averaged 6.4 years of age and our containers averaged 5.7 years.  We perform routine servicing and preventive
maintenance of our equipment at most of our regional terminal facilities.

 

        Our JBI segment utilizes
high-cube containers, which can be separated from the chassis and
double-stacked on rail cars.  We are
currently in the process of expanding our container fleet and reconditioning
our chassis fleet.  The composition of
our DCS trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may
include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight
trucks and dump trailers.  We typically
operate newer revenue equipment in our JBT segment to minimize downtime and
maximize utilization.  We primarily
utilize third-party carriers’ tractor and trailing equipment for our ICS
segment; however, certain loads will utilize third-party carriers’ tractors
powering our trailing equipment.

 

        In December 2007, we initiated a plan to sell certain revenue equipment in our JBT segment.  This plan is an effort to continue moving our current economic model from that of a primarily asset-based truckload carrier of the past to an asset-light transportation company, while reducing the JBT fleet until acceptable margins and returns on invested capital are achieved.  Terms of the plan include approximately 700 tractors and 2,500 trailers to be sold during calendar year 2008. 

        Effective with model-year
2007 tractors, the EPA mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured
heavy-duty tractor engines.  The 2007
EPA-compliant engines require more costly ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ULSD)
fuel.  Current market information and our
experience to date indicates that ULSD fuel costs approximately $0.02 to $0.05
more per gallon.  In 2006, we began
testing the model-year 2007 

 

 

7












 

engines in a group of our tractors. 
To date, we have seen a slight reduction in miles per gallon due to
using ULSD fuel and these new 2007 EPA-compliant engines, and an increase in
operating costs.  Further, the
acquisition costs of these new engines has increased by approximately 10%.  A new set of more stringent emissions
standards will become effective for newly-manufactured tractor engines in January 2010.

 

Competition and the Industry

 

        The market in which we
compete is frequently referred to as highly fragmented and includes thousands
of carriers, many of which are very small. 
While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis,
only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across
the country.  We compete with other
freight transportation carriers primarily in terms of on-time pickup and
delivery service, availability of drivers, and revenue equipment and price.

 

Regulation

 

        Our operations as a
for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of
Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
(FMCSA), and certain business is also subject to state rules and
regulations.  The DOT periodically
conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety
requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the
DOT.  Our operations into and out of
Canada and Mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries.

 

        In July 2007,
the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated certain provisions contained in the
hours-of-service (HOS) regulations, issued by the FMCSA.  The 11-hour-limit rule, which restricts
drivers to 11 hours of driving time within a 14-hour period from the start of
the workday, and the 34-hour-restart rule, which allows drivers to restart
their weekly on-duty calculations after 34 consecutive hours off duty, were
vacated by the court’s decision.  In September 2007,
subsequent to petitions and motions by various groups, the court granted a
90-day delay in the effective date of its ruling.  In December 2007, the FMCSA temporarily
reinstated the vacated provisions until it gathers public comment and safety
analysis information before issuing a final ruling.  The public comment period extends until March 17,
2008.  There has been no lapse in these rules since
they were issued by the FMCSA in 2005. 
We continue to monitor the actions of the FMCSA.

 

ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS

 

        In
addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this Form 10-K,
and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk
factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business.  Our business, financial condition or
financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these
risks.  Also note that additional risks
not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our
business or financial results.

 

Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that
are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse
effect  on our results of operations.

 

        Our business is dependent upon a number
of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our
operations, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors include significant increases
or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry,
interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums,
self-insurance levels, interference with, or termination of, our relationships
with certain railroads, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse
weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in
the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and
difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent
contractors.

 

        We are also affected by recessionary
economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in
market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have
a 

 

 

8












 

significant
concentration of customers.  Economic
conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to
increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. 
In addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal
factors.  Customers tend to reduce
shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to
be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes
higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs.

 

We operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry.  Numerous factors could impair our ability to
maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and
private fleets.

 

        Some of these factors include:

 

·                  We compete with many other
transportation carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with
less-than-truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and
greater capital resources than we do.

 

·                  Some of our competitors
periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during
times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to
maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins.

 

·                  Many customers reduce the
number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved
transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected.

 

·                  Many customers periodically
accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process
may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to
competitors.

 

·                  Certain of our customers
that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to
expand their operations.

 

·                  Consolidation in the
transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial
resources and other competitive advantages related to their size.

 

·                  Advances in technology
require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not
be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these
investments.

 

We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major
customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

 

        For the calendar year ended December 31,
2007, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 38%
of our revenue.  Our largest customer,
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounted for approximately 12% of our total
revenue in 2007.  Our JBT and JBI
segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers.  While our DCS segment business may involve a
written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there
is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our
services or that they will continue at the same levels.  A reduction in or termination of our services
by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on
our business and operating results.

 

We depend on third parties in the operation of our business.

 

        Our JBI business segment utilizes
railroads in the performance of its transportation services.  The majority of these services are provided
pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads.  While we have agreements with various Class I
railroads, the majority of our business travels on the Burlington Northern
Santa Fe and the Norfolk Southern railways. 
The inability to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material
adverse effect on our business and operating results.  We also utilize the services of a number of
third-party dray carriers to perform a significant number of our origin and
destination pickups and deliveries.  In
addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the United 

 

 

9












 

States
through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts.  Work stoppages or other disruptions at
any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business.

 

        Our ICS business segment utilizes
third-party carriers.  Aside from
periodic use of our trailing equipment to satisfy certain loads, we do not own
the revenue equipment nor do we employ the drivers delivering the loads.  The inability to obtain reliable third-party
carriers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and
business growth.

 

Difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers could affect our
profitability and ability to grow.

 

        Periodically, the trucking industry
experiences substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified
drivers, including ICs.  If we are unable
to continue attracting an adequate number of drivers or contract with enough
ICs, we could be required to significantly increase our driver compensation
package or let revenue equipment sit idle, which could adversely affect our
growth and profitability.

 

Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our
earnings.

 

        Our future insurance and claims expenses
might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings.  During 2005, we self-insured a portion of our
claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage and
health claims for amounts up to the first $2 million for auto accidents and $1
million for workers’ compensation. 
During 2006 and 2007, the self-insured portion of our claims exposure
for all claims was $500,000 per occurrence. 
If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured
increases, our operating results could be adversely affected.  The self-insured portion of our claims will
be $500,000 per occurrence for personal injury and property damage and $1
million per occurrence for workers’ compensation during 2008.  We purchase insurance coverage for the
amounts above which we are self-insured. 
If these expenses increase, and we are unable to offset the increase
with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely
affected.

 

Our operations are subject
to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could
result in substantial fines or penalties.

 

        We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations
dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage
tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water.  We operate in industrial areas, where truck
terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or
other forms of environmental contamination have occurred.  Our operations involve the risks of fuel
spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous wastes disposal, among
others.  We also maintain bulk fuel
storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities.  If we are involved in a spill or other
accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation
of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on
our business and operating results.  If
we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be
subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.

 

We operate in a regulated
industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or
liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

 

        The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over
our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in
motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial
reporting.  We are audited periodically
by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety,
hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations.  If we were found to be out of compliance, the
DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our operations.

 

        We
continue to monitor actions taken by the FMCSA. 
Significant changes in hours-of-service and other motor carrier safety
regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver
productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping
equipment.

 

 

10












 

        Effective with model-year
2007 tractors, the EPA mandated lower emission standards for newly manufactured
heavy-duty tractor engines.  The 2007
EPA-compliant engines require more costly ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ULSD) fuel.  Further, the acquisition costs of these new
engines has increased by approximately 10%. 
A new set of more stringent emissions standards will become effective
for newly-manufactured tractor engines in January 2010.  While it is too early to assess the impact of
the new standards, our fuel costs, operating costs and acquisition costs could
be impacted.

 

Rapid changes in fuel
costs could impact our periodic financial results.

 

        During the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has
varied significantly.  We have a fuel
surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which
has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs.  Most of these programs automatically adjust
weekly depending on the cost of fuel. 
However, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel
cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers.  In addition, we incur additional costs when
fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled
during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be
billed to customers.  Rapid increases in
fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our
operations or future profitability.  As
of December 31, 2007, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce
our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.

 

ITEM 1B