Item 1A.
  
  
  Risk Factors
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item
  1B.
  
  
  Unresolved
  Staff Comments
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 2.
  
  
  Properties
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 3.
  
  
  Legal Proceedings
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 4.
  
  
  Submission of Matters to a
  Vote of Security Holders
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  PART II
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 5.
  
  
  Market for Registrant’s
  Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 6.
  
  
  Selected Financial Data
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 7.
  
  
  Management’s Discussion and
  Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 7A.
  
  
  Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 8.
  
  
  Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 9.
  
  
  Changes in
  and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 9A.
  
  
  Controls and
  Procedures
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 9B.
  
  
  Other Information
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  PART III
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 10.
  
  
  Directors
  and Executive Officers of Registrant
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 11.
  
  
  Executive
  Compensation
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 12.
  
  
  Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Security
  Holder Matters
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 13.
  
  
  Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 14.
  
  
  Principal
  Accountant Fees and Services
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  PART IV
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Item 15.
  
  
  Exhibits and
  Financial Statement Schedules
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Signatures
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
  
   
  
 


 

2












 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

 

This report, including documents which are incorporated by reference,
and other documents which we file periodically with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), contains statements that may be considered to be “forward-looking
statements.”  Such statements relate to
our predictions concerning future events or operations and are within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are inherently
uncertain, subject to risks, and should be viewed with caution. These
statements are based on our belief or interpretation of information currently
available. Stockholders and prospective investors are cautioned that actual
results and future events may differ materially from the forward-looking
statements as a result of many factors. Some of the factors and events that are
not within our control and that could have a material impact on future
operating results include:  general
economic and business conditions, competition and competitive rate
fluctuations, cost and availability of diesel fuel, ability to attract and
retain qualified drivers, a loss of one or more major customers, interference
with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads, insurance
costs and  availability, claims expense,
retention of key employees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse
weather conditions, new or different environmental or other laws and
regulations, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the
value of used equipment and the ability of revenue equipment manufacturers to
perform in accordance with agreements for guaranteed equipment trade-in values.
Current and future changes in fuel prices could result in significant
fluctuations of quarterly earnings.

 

You should understand that many important factors, in addition to those
listed above, could impact us financially. Our operating results may fluctuate
as a result of these and other risk factors or events as described in our
filings with the SEC. Some important factors that could cause our actual
results to differ from estimates or projections contained in the
forward-looking statements are described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. We
assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we
become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason.

 

PART I

 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

 

OVERVIEW

 

We are one of the largest surface transportation companies in North
America. J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. (JBHT) is a publicly held holding
company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries and associated
companies, provides a wide range of transportation services to a diverse group
of customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and Mexico. We
were incorporated in Arkansas on August 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held
company since our initial public offering in 1983. Our service offerings
include transportation of full truckload containerizable freight, which we
directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and
company drivers or independent contractors. This full truckload freight may be
transported entirely by truck over roads and highways, or may be moved, in
part, by rail. We have arrangements with most of the major North American rail
carriers to transport truckload freight in containers and trailers. We also
provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems
services that are tailored to meet individual customers’ requirements and
typically involve long-term contracts. These arrangements are known as
dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, home deliveries,
freight handling, specialized equipment and network design. We also have a 37%
ownership interest in a global transportation logistics company, Transplace,
Inc. (TPI). TPI is co-owned by five large transportation companies and provides
supplemental sales, management and freight movement services through
arrangements with a large number of common carriers.

 

Our business operations are primarily organized through three distinct,
but complementary, business segments. These segments include full truckload
dry-van (JBT), intermodal (JBI) and dedicated contract services (DCS). In
addition, we operated a logistics business segment from 1992 until mid-2000. In
2000, we, along with a number of other publicly held transportation companies, 

 

3












 

contributed
our existing logistics business to a new, commonly owned company, Transplace,
Inc. (TPI). Our business is somewhat seasonal with slightly higher freight
volumes typically experienced during the months of August through early
November. Our DCS segment is subject to less seasonal variation than our JBT
and JBI segments. For the calendar year ended December 31, 2005, our
consolidated revenue totaled $3.13 billion, after the elimination of
inter-segment business. Of the total, $1.28 billion, or 41%, was generated by
our JBI business segment. Our JBT segment generated $1.02 billion, or 32%, of
total revenue and DCS represented $844 million, or 27%.

 

Additional general
information about us is available from our Internet website at www.jbhunt.com.
We make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on
our website including our annual report on Form 10-K, our proxy statement and
our earnings releases. Our website also contains corporate governance
guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, committee charters
for our Board of Directors and other corporate policies.

 

OUR MISSION AND STRATEGY

 

We forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include
supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy. Working in
concert, we drive out cost, add value and function as an extension of our
customers’ enterprise. We believe that our operating strategy can add value to
customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders.

 

RECENT FOCUS

 

During the past five years, we have taken significant steps to
re-establish a primary focus on the profitability of our three business
segments. In each segment we have implemented capacity management decision making
processes that result in the deployment of our assets where we believe they
will generate more profit. We continually focus on replacing less-profitable
freight with higher-margin freight and lanes. Selective pricing actions and
ensuring that we properly charge for all services provided have also been areas
of major focus. We have also worked to ingrain safety into our corporate
culture, which has reduced our accident and injury costs during the past several
years.

 

OPERATING SEGMENTS

 

Segment information is included in Note 11 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements.

 

JBT
Segment

 

Our primary transportation service offerings classified in this segment
include full truckload, dry-van freight, which is predominantly transported
utilizing company-controlled tractors operating over roads and highways. We
pick up our freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and
transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. Most of our loads
are transported entirely by our company-owned tractors and employee drivers, or
by independent contractors (ICs) who agree to transport freight in our trailers.
We also assign freight to be handled by third-party motor carriers other than
ICs. This type of freight movement typically results in our billing the
customer for all applicable freight charges and, in turn, paying the third
party for their portion of the transportation services provided. This type of
service usually results in our recognition of revenue for the entire billing
and the payment to the third-party being classified as purchased transportation
expense.

 

We operate utilizing certain Canadian authorities, allowing us to
transport freight to and from all points in the continental United States to
Quebec, British Columbia and Ontario. We have authorization to operate directly
in all the Canadian provinces, but to date we have served limited points in
Canada, primarily through interchange operations with Canadian motor carriers. In
late 2000, we began utilizing ICs in the JBT segment and at December 31, 2005,
we had 1,142 ICs operating in the JBT segment. JBT revenue for calendar year
2005 was $1.02 billion, compared with $928 million in 2004. At December 31, 2005,
the JBT segment operated 4,368 company-controlled tractors and employed 5,882

 

4












 

people,
4,895 of whom were drivers. A portion of our JBT segment non-driver employees
provide freight solicitation, order entry and other operational support
services to our other two segments. We record inter-segment credits and charges
to properly reflect these inter-segment support services.

 

JBI
Segment

 

The transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements
with most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight
solutions for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada
and Mexico. Our JBI segment began operations in 1989 with a unique partnership
with the former Santa Fe Railway (now the BNSF Railway Company), a watershed
event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and
truckload carriers in a joint marketing environment. Essentially, JBI draws on
the intermodal (also known as “container on flatcar”) services of rail carriers
for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment and performs the pickups
and deliveries (“drayage”) for customers at the origin and destination rail
terminal locations. We may directly provide the drayage service at either the
origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our company-controlled tractors, or
we may purchase these services from third parties. JBI provides seamless
coordination of the rail and over-the-road transport movements for our
customers and delivers a single billing for the complete door-to-door service.

 

Our intermodal program has grown from 20 loads in late 1989 to nearly 600,000
in 2005. JBI operates 23,755 company-controlled containers systemwide. The
entire fleet is comprised of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to
take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. JBI
also manages a fleet of 1,341 company-owned tractors and 1,719 company drivers
in support of intermodal operations. We also began utilizing ICs in our
intermodal segment during 2005. We had 16 ICs operating in our JBI business segment
at December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2005, the total JBI employee count was 1,951,
including the 1,719 drivers. Revenue for the JBI segment in calendar year 2005
was $1.28 billion, compared with $1.12 billion in 2004. As previously
announced, an arbitration process with the BNSF Railway Company (BNI) was concluded
during the third quarter of 2005. In accordance with the settlement terms, we
paid BNI $25.8 million in the third quarter of 2005. Normal commercial business
activity continued between the parties during the approximate 15-month
arbitration process, and normal business operations have continued since the
final settlement.

 

DCS
Segment

 

Since 1992, we have offered dedicated contract carriage as a service
option. DCS segment operations specialize in the design, development and
execution of customer-specific fleet solutions. Capitalizing on advanced
systems and technologies, DCS offers transportation engineering solutions that
support private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation
system augmentation. DCS operations typically provide customized services that
are governed by long-term contracts and currently include dry-van, flatbed,
temperature-controlled, dump trailers and local inner-city operations.

 

DCS operations focus on delivering recognizable customer value through
best-in-class service, cost control and guaranteed dedicated capacity. DCS
utilizes a proprietary methodology known as Customer Value Delivery™ (CVD) to
create, measure and communicate value created for each customer. DCS leverages
the JBHT freight network to reposition equipment near outbound domiciles,
thereby reducing inefficient empty miles and system cost. DCS also frequently
finds synergy in shared resources with the JBT and JBI segments, including
terminals, drivers, maintenance shops, bulk fuel locations and trailer pools
providing further economies of scale. DCS revenue for calendar year 2005 was $844
million, compared with $760 million in 2004. In early 2004, we began utilizing
ICs in the DCS segment and at December 31, 2005, we had 152 ICs operating in
the DCS segment. At December 31, 2005, the DCS segment operated 4,771 company-controlled
and 87 customer-owned tractors, and employed 5,834 people, 5,144 of whom were
drivers.

 

5












 

Logistics
Business and Associated Company

 

We officially began offering transportation logistics services in 1992
through a wholly owned subsidiary, J.B. Hunt Logistics, Inc. (JBL). JBL
services frequently included an arrangement whereby a shipper might outsource a
substantial portion of its entire distribution and transportation process to
one organization. The JBL segment business included a wide range of comprehensive
transportation and management services, including experienced professional
managers, information and optimization technology, and the actual design or
redesign of system solutions. A new logistics customer or service arrangement
frequently required a significant amount of up-front analysis and design time,
during which alternatives were considered and custom systems and software were
developed. Effective July 1, 2000, we contributed our existing JBL segment
business to a newly formed company, TPI. TPI provides supplemental logistics
sales and management support and also has arrangements with approximately 2,800
motor carriers to provide capacity to transport freight. Our share of TPI’s
financial results are included on a one-line, non-operating item included on
our Consolidated Statements of Earnings entitled “equity in loss of associated
company.”

 

Operations in Mexico

 

We have provided transportation services to and from Mexico since 1989.
These services typically involve equipment interchange operations with various
Mexican motor carriers. As previously reported, we sold a joint venture
interest with a Mexican transportation company in 2002. We received all
remaining funds due in connection with this sale during 2005. This transaction
had no significant impact on our earnings. We continue to provide
transportation services to and from Mexico primarily by utilizing the services
of a variety of Mexican carriers.

 

Marketing
and Operations

 

We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of
freight, including forest and paper products, building materials, general
merchandise, food and beverages, chemicals and automotive parts. Our customer
base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies.
Our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our three business segments
and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a
competitive advantage. We provide a broad range of transportation services to
larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of “core” carriers. Our
largest customer in 2005 was Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which accounted for
approximately 15% of our total revenue.

 

We
generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and
marketing network. We do have some sales and marketing functions managed at the
business-unit level, particularly for our DCS segment. In accordance with our
typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services and we, in turn,
pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided. In
recent years, we have re-established a primary focus on improving the
profitability of each of our business segments and charging a fair price for
all services provided.

 

People

 

We believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our
competitors is our service-oriented people. As of December 31, 2005, we had
approximately 16,370 employees, including 11,758 company drivers. We also had
arrangements with 1,310 ICs to transport freight in our trailing equipment. In
addition, we employed 1,170 mechanics and 3,439 office personnel at the end of
2005. None of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective
bargaining agreements.

 

Our industry has periodically had a difficult time attracting and
retaining enough qualified truck drivers. It is also common for the driver
turnover rate of individual carriers to exceed 100%. It has been our practice
during the past few years to compensate our drivers at an above-average level
in order to attract a higher caliber of experience and minimize turnover. During
2005, we increased company driver and IC compensation in order to attract and
retain an adequate supply of qualified drivers. While we have not, to date,
experienced significant operational disruptions due to driver shortages, we
expect

 

6












 

the
costs to recruit, train and retain company drivers and ICs will continue to
rise in the foreseeable future.

 

Revenue
Equipment

 

As of December 31, 2005, we operated 10,480 company-controlled tractors.
In addition, our 1,310 ICs operate their own tractors, but transport freight in
our trailing equipment. We operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets
as possible, particularly in our JBT and JBI fleets. Based on our customers’ preferences
and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is more diversified. We
believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better
customer service, attracts quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. At
December 31, 2005, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.2 years,
our trailers averaged 5.0 years of age and our containers averaged 6.8 years. We
perform routine servicing and preventative maintenance of our equipment at most
of our regional terminal facilities.

 

We typically operate newer revenue equipment in our JBT segment to
minimize downtime and maximize utilization. Our JBI segment utilizes high-cube
containers, which can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail
cars. We are currently in the process of expanding our container fleet and
reconditioning our chassis fleet. The composition of our DCS trailing fleet
varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds,
temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, and even straight or dump trucks.

 

Effective October 1, 2002, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
required that most newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines comply with
certain new emission standards. We initially limited our new tractor purchases
while we tested these new 2002 EPA-compliant engines. At December 31, 2005, we
were operating approximately 5,900 tractors with these 2002 rule-compliant
engines. These engines experience an approximate 4% to 5% lower fuel efficiency
and are also expected to require higher annual maintenance costs.

 

Effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the EPA has mandated even
lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. We
once again are planning our new equipment purchases to accommodate these new
standards, but allow adequate testing of the new engines. The 2007 EPA-compliant
engines will be equipped with a particulate trap and will require more costly
ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ULSD) fuel. The EPA estimates that ULSD fuel will cost
approximately $.04 to $.05 more per gallon. We are unable at this time to
determine the increase in acquisition and operating costs of these new 2007
EPA-compliant engines.

 

Competition
and the Industry

 

According to the most recently available study conducted by the American
Trucking Associations (ATA), all modes of domestic freight carriers in the
United States generated approximately $610 billion of revenue in 2003. Of this
total, truck transportation represented about 87%, or $531 billion. ATA also
estimated that approximately 54% of the nation’s 2003 truck revenue related to
for-hire carriers, while 46% related to private carriers. As of July 2004,
there were more than 573,000 private, for-hire, U.S. Mail and other U.S.
interstate motor carriers on file with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration (FMCSA). The top 10 for-hire truckload carriers only generate
about 3% of the total revenue in this segment, and we represent approximately
1% of this segment’s revenue. The market in which we compete is frequently
referred to as highly fragmented and includes thousands of carriers, many of
which are very small. While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a
regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all
markets across the country. We compete with other freight transportation
carriers primarily in terms of on-time pickup and delivery service,
availability of drivers, and revenue equipment and price.

 

Regulation

 

Our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by
the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, and certain business is also subject to state rules and
regulations. The DOT periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our

 

7












 

compliance
with all federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other
information to the DOT. Our operations into and out of Canada and Mexico are
also subject to regulation by those countries.

 

Effective October 1, 2005, driver hours-of-service regulations (HOS)
were revised. The majority of these rule changes had initially been effective
January 4, 2004. These collective changes were the most significant changes to
driver HOS in more than 40 years. In general, the new rules require a driver to
take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a ten-hour
off-duty period. These new rules primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop
freight operations and had a minor negative impact on our overall operations and
financial results.

 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

 

In addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in
this Form 10-K and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the
following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our
business. Our business, financial condition or financial results could be
materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Also note that
additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively
impact our business or financial results.

 

Our business
is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our
control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.

 

Our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a
material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are
beyond our control. These factors include significant increases or rapid
fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry, surpluses
in the market for used equipment, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and
registration fees, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, and difficulty in
attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent contractors.

 

We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in
customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such
as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of
customers. Economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we
may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt losses. In addition, our
results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. Customers tend to
reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses
tend to be higher in the winter months primarily due to colder weather, which
causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance
costs.

 

We
operate in a competitive and somewhat fragmented industry. Numerous factors
could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete
with other carriers and private fleets.

 

Some of these factors include:

 

•                  We compete with many other truckload carriers
of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload carriers and
railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than
we do.

 

•                  Some of our competitors periodically reduce
their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth
rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase
freight rates or maintain our profit margins.

 

•                  Many customers reduce the number of carriers
they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation
service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected.

 

8












 

•                  Many customers periodically accept bids from
multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress
freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors.

 

•                  Certain of our customers that operate private
fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations.

 

•                  The trend toward consolidation in the
trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources
and other competitive advantages relating to their size.

 

•                  Advances in technology require increased
investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to
accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments.

 

We derive
a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of
one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

 

For the calendar year ended December 31, 2005, our top 10 customers,
based on revenue, accounted for approximately 40% of our revenue. Our largest
customer is Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which accounted for approximately 15% of our
total revenue in 2005. Our JBT and JBI segments typically do not have long-term
contracts with their customers. While our DCS segment business may involve a
written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there
is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our
services or that they will continue at the same levels. A reduction in or termination
of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material
adverse effect on our business and operating results.

 

We
depend on third parties in the operation of our business.

 

Our Intermodal business segment utilizes railroads in the performance
of its transportation services. These services are provided pursuant to
contractual relationships with the railroads. While we have agreements with
various Class I railroads, the majority of our business travels on the
Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the Norfolk Southern Railroad. The inability
to utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect
on our business and operating results. We also utilize the services of a number
of third-party dray carriers to perform a significant number of our origin and
destination pickups and deliveries. In addition, a portion of the freight we
deliver is imported to the United States through ports of call that are subject
to labor union contracts.

 

Difficulty
in attracting and retaining drivers could affect our profitability and ability
to grow.

 

Periodically, the trucking industry experiences substantial difficulty
in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including ICs. A shortage of
qualified company drivers and ICs has proven to be particularly severe during
the past few years. In spite of continued increases in driver compensation and
recruiting costs, the industry is currently experiencing a significant shortage
of drivers. If we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of
drivers or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required
to significantly increase our driver compensation package or let trucks sit
idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.

 

Ongoing
insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings.

 

Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical
levels, which could reduce our earnings. During 2005, we self-insured a portion
of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property
damage and health claims for amounts up to the first $2 million for auto
accidents and $1 million for workers’ compensation. Effective January 1, 2006,
the self-insured portion of our claims exposure for personal injury and workers’
compensation was reduced to $500,000. If the number or severity of claims for
which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely
affected. Also, we maintain insurance above the amounts for which we
self-insure with licensed insurance companies. Insurance carriers have recently
raised premiums for most trucking

 

9












 

companies.
As a result, our insurance and claims expenses could increase when some of our
current coverages expire on July 31, 2006. If these expenses increase, and we
are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could
be materially and adversely affected.

 

The
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits
associated with certain sale-and-leaseback transactions.

 

As previously disclosed, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has
proposed to disallow the tax benefits associated with certain
sale-and-leaseback transactions, which we entered into in 1999. Based on events
occurring subsequent to December 31, 2004, we established a reserve for a
contingent tax liability of $33.6 million at December 31, 2004. The liability
for this contingency, which included estimated interest expense, was included
on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2004, as a long-term
liability. We accrued approximately $2.7 million of interest expense during
2005 related to this contingency. We continue to believe our tax positions
comply with applicable tax law for which we received advice and opinions from
our then external public accountants and attorneys prior to entering into these
transactions, and we continue to vigorously defend against the IRS position
using all administrative and legal processes available. If the IRS were
successful in disallowing 100% of the tax benefit from this transaction, the
total ultimate impact on liquidity could be approximately $44 million,
excluding interest.

 

Our
operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the
violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.

 

We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing
with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and
discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where
truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where
groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our
operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage
and hazardous wastes disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage
and fuel islands at several of our facilities. If we are involved in a spill or
other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in
violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse
effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with
applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines
or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.

 

We
operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of
compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations
could have a material adverse effect on our business.

 

The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our
business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in
motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting. We
are audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with
various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. If we were
found to be out of compliance, the DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our
operations.

 

Effective October 1, 2005, driver HOS regulations were revised. The
majority of these rule changes had initially been effective January 4, 2004. These
collective changes were the most significant changes to driver HOS in more than
40 years. In general, the new rules require a driver to take at least eight
consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a 10-hour off-duty period. These
new rules primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop freight operations and had
a minor negative impact on our overall operations and financial results.

 

Effective October 1, 2002, the EPA required that most newly manufactured
heavy-duty tractor engines comply with certain new emission standards. At
December 31, 2005, we were operating approximately 5,900 tractors with these
2002 rule-complaint engines. In addition to higher initial purchase prices,
these tractors have also experienced an average 4% to 5% reduction in fuel
efficiency. Effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the EPA has mandated even
lower emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. We
are planning our new equipment purchases to

 

10












 

accommodate
these new standards, but also to allow adequate time for testing of the new
engines. We are unable to predict the impact these new standards will have on
our future operations and business results.

 

Rapid
changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results.

 

Fuel and fuel taxes currently represent our third-largest general
expense category. During the past several years, fuel cost per gallon has
varied significantly, with prices at times changing as much as $.20 to $.25 per
gallon between consecutive months. We have a fuel surcharge revenue program in
place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to
recover the majority of higher fuel costs. Most of these programs automatically
adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. However, there can be timing
differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel
surcharges billed to our customers. In addition, we incur additional costs when
fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled
during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be
billed to customers. Rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could
have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. As of
December 31, 2005, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our
exposure to fuel price fluctuations.

 

ITEM 1B