Item 1A.  We assume no
obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware
that it will not be achieved for any reason.
      
      PART
I
      
      ITEM
1.   BUSINESS
       
      OVERVIEW
       
            We
are one of the largest surface transportation and delivery service companies in
North America.  J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a publicly held
holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides a
wide range of transportation services to a diverse group of customers throughout
the continental United States, Canada and Mexico.  Unless otherwise
indicated by the context, “we,” “us,” “our”
and “JBHT” refer to J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. and its
consolidated subsidiaries.  We were incorporated in Arkansas on August
10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public
offering in 1983.  Our wide scope of scalable service offerings is
relatively uncommon in the industry and ranges from full-load containerized
freight transportation over highways and railroads to individual deliveries of
appliances and other items to small businesses and personal
residences.  We have arrangements with most of the major North
American rail carriers to transport freight in containers and
trailers.  We also provide customized freight movement, revenue
equipment, labor, systems and delivery services that are tailored to meet
individual customer’s requirements and typically involve longer-term
contracts.  These arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated
services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries,
freight handling, specialized equipment and freight network
design.  We also provide integrated capacity and comprehensive
transportation and logistics services and solutions by utilizing a network of
thousands of reliable third-party carriers.  While these unrelated
outside carriers, at times, supplement our dry-van, full-load operations, they
also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (LTL) and other
specialized equipment, drivers and services.
      
      Our business operations are primarily
organized through four distinct, but complementary, business
segments.  These segments include intermodal (JBI), dedicated contract
services (DCS), full-load dry-van (JBT) and integrated capacity solutions
(ICS).  Our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher
freight volumes typically experienced during August through early
November.  Our DCS segment is subject to less seasonal variation than
our other segments.  For the calendar year ended December 31, 2009,
our consolidated revenue totaled $3.2 billion, after the elimination of
intersegment business.  Of this total, 55% was generated by our JBI
business segment, 24% by DCS, 14% by JBT and 7% by ICS.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          3
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      Additional general information about us
is available on our Internet website at www.jbhunt.com.  We
make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our
website, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our proxy statement and our
earnings releases.  Our website also contains corporate governance
guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, Board committee
charters and other corporate policies.
      
      OUR
MISSION AND STRATEGY
       
      We forge long-term partnerships with
key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their
strategy.  Working in concert, we drive out cost, add value and
function as an extension of our customers’ enterprise.  We believe
that our operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits
and returns to stockholders.
      
      RECENT
FOCUS
       
      Our recent focus has been to maximize
the return on our invested capital and generate free cash flow to reduce
outstanding debt.  We believe we can leverage the services of our
business units for the ultimate benefit of our customers.  We
continuously analyze where capital investments yield the best return and
allocate funds to those business units and specific activities inside the
business unit.  Unacceptable returns in various areas have caused us
to reduce certain business models or exit those activities within the business
model.  Our goal is to become more asset-light in certain of the
services we provide, but to continue to grow with new and existing customers by
providing the most efficient transportation solutions to their supply
chains.  We are encouraged by the growing number of shippers using all
of our services as a way to meet their needs and feel it is positive
confirmation of our focus and goals.
      
        
Examples of steps taken to reach those goals include the continued contraction
of the JBT business unit coupled with the growth in our ICS business unit, the
expansion of our Eastern intermodal network, and the development of our new and
existing customer base.  We also continue to direct our dedicated
business unit toward providing best-in-class service in applications that
require unique and specialized services ranging from retail and small-business
replenishment to deliveries at personal residences.  A significant
step toward this goal has been the implementation of a cross-dock and delivery
system network during 2009.  By midyear 2010, we plan to manage
delivery facilities or operations that will allow us to directly serve in excess
of 90% of the U.S. population.
      
        
Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation
solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions.  Our
intermodal service addresses both demands.  We are customizing
dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon
emissions.  Efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and
we are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWaySM
Transport Partner.
      
      As always, we continue to ingrain
safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as
safely as possible.
      
      OPERATING
SEGMENTS
       
      Segment information is also included in
Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
      
      JBI
Segment
      
        
The transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements
with most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight
solutions for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and
Mexico.  Our JBI segment began operations in 1989 with a unique
partnership with what is now the BNSF Railway Company, a watershed event in the
industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers
in a joint marketing environment.  JBI draws on the intermodal
services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment
and performs the pickups and deliveries (“drayage”) for customers at the origin
and destination rail terminal locations.  We provide the drayage
service at either the origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our
company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, but utilize
third parties where economical.  Performing our own dray services
keeps costs lower and improves customer service.  JBI provides
seamless coordination of the rail and dray movements for our customers and
delivers a single billing for complete door-to-door service.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          4
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      JBI operates 40,170 company-controlled
containers systemwide.  The entire fleet is comprised of 53-foot,
high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal
double-stack economics and superior ride quality.  JBI also manages a
fleet of 2,303 company-owned tractors and 2,780 company drivers that provide
efficiency to our intermodal operations.  At December 31, 2009, the
total JBI employee count was 3,078.  Revenue for the JBI segment in
2009 was $1.76 billion.
      
      DCS
Segment
      
        
DCS offers transportation services that generally are not provided by common
truckload carriers or intermodal due to strict service requirements, specialized
equipment, and intense driver and delivery personnel demands.  Our
operations are managed on site by transportation professionals who work in
concert daily with the customer and our drivers to ensure that we deliver their
product or service on time in a safe and cost-effective manner.  All
operations are governed by longer-term contracts that typically include fixed
cost components related to dedicated specialized equipment and fuel surcharge
programs on round-trip miles.  During 2009, we commenced the
implementation of significantly more new business than we have in any other
prior year.  As a result of this growth, our final-mile delivery
channel business became a significant part of our DCS business.
      
      At December 31, 2009, this segment
operated 3,969 company-controlled trucks, 358 customer-owned trucks, and 31
independent contractor trucks.  The DCS segment employed 5,765 people
at December 31, 2009.  DCS revenue for 2009 was $757
million.
      
      JBT
Segment
      
      The
service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing
tractors operating over roads and highways.  We typically pick up
freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load
directly to the location of the consignee.  We use our company-owned
tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport
freight in our trailers.
       
      At
December 31, 2009, the JBT segment operated 1,698 company-owned tractors and
employed 2,150 people, 1,823 of whom were drivers.  At December 31,
2009, we had 1,163 independent contractors operating in the JBT segment, some of
whom were leasing company-owned tractors.  JBT revenue for 2009 was
$447 million.
      
      ICS
Segment
      
        
ICS provides non-asset, asset-light, and transportation logistics solutions to
customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and
integration with our owned equipment.  By leveraging the J.B. Hunt
brand, systems and network, ICS brings a broader service offering to customers
by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited and LTL, as well as a variety of
dry-van and intermodal solutions.  ICS provides single-source
logistics management for customers that desire to outsource their transportation
functions and utilize our proven supply-chain, technology, and design expertise
to improve efficiency.  ICS operates outside offices as well as
on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with
customers.
      
      At December 31, 2009, the ICS segment
employed 323 people, with a carrier base in excess of 22,400.  ICS
revenue for 2009 was $259 million.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          5
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      Marketing
and Operations
      
       
 We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of
freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances,
forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and
cosmetics, automotive parts, electronics, and chemicals.  Our customer
base is extremely diverse and includes a large number of Fortune 500
companies.  Our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four
business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third
parties, represents a competitive advantage.  We provide a broad range
of transportation services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number
of “core” carriers and those that desire a provider of complementary services as
a way to meet all of their supply-chain needs.  We had no customers
that represented 10% or more of our total revenue in 2009.
      
        
We generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and
marketing network.  We use a specific sales force in DCS due to the
length, complexity and specialization of the sales cycle.  In
addition, ICS utilizes its own proactive local branch salespeople.  In
accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services
and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation
services provided.
      
      People
      
        
We believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is
our service-oriented people.  As of December 31, 2009, we had 14,171
employees, including 9,287 company drivers, 1,210 mechanics and 3,674 office
personnel.  We also had arrangements with approximately 1,200
independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing
equipment.  None of our employees is represented by unions or covered
by collective bargaining agreements.
      
      Revenue
Equipment
      
        
Our JBI segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated from the
chassis and double-stacked on rail cars.  The composition of our DCS
trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include
dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks
and dump trailers.  Our JBT segment operates primarily with 53-foot
dry-van trailers.  We primarily utilize third-party carriers’ tractor
and trailing equipment for our ICS segment.
      
      As of
December 31, 2009, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 7,970
units.  In addition, we had approximately 1,200 independent
contractors who operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our
trailing equipment.  We operate with standardized tractors in as many
fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT fleets.  Due to
our customers’ preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is
extremely diversified.  We believe that operating with relatively
newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality
drivers and lowers maintenance expense.  At December 31, 2009, the
average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.7 years, our containers averaged
5.4 years of age and our trailers averaged 7.9 years.  We perform
routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at most of our
regional terminal facilities.
      
        
Effective with model-year 2010 engines, the EPA has mandated lower emission
standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractors.  The 2010
EPA-compliant engines are expected to have a slight increase in miles per gallon
and an increase in operating costs compared with current engine standards due to
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology, which achieves lower
emissions.  At this time, we have not taken delivery of any EPA 2010
model engines, but plan on doing so later in 2010.
      
      Competition
and the Industry
      
      The freight transportation markets in
which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and
competitive.  Our JBI segment competes with other intermodal marketing
companies as well as other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a
portion of the transportation service.  Considering the diversified
nature of the services provided by our DCS segment, competition ranges from
large diversified carriers to local transportation and delivery service
carriers.  Our ICS segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck
industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight
brokers, as well as full-load carriers.  The full-load freight
competition of our JBT segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are
very small.  While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a
regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all
markets across the country.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          6
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      We compete with other transportation
service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery
service, revenue equipment quality and availability of carriers for logistics
services.
      
      Regulation
       
      Our operations as a for-hire motor
carrier are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)
and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), and certain
business is also subject to state rules and regulations.  The DOT
periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all
federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other
information to the DOT.  Our operations into and out of Canada and
Mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries.
       
      
        In November 2008, the FMCSA adopted
final provisions of the Agency’s December 17, 2007, interim final rule
concerning hours of service for commercial vehicle drivers.  This
final rule allows drivers to continue to drive up to 11 hours within a 14-hour
nonextendable window from the start of the workday, following at least 10
consecutive hours off duty.  The rule also allows motor carriers and
drivers to continue to restart calculations of weekly on-duty limits after the
driver has at least 34 consecutive hours off duty.  The rule was
effective January 19, 2009.  We believe we are in compliance with all
applicable regulations and continue to monitor the actions of the
FMCSA.
         
      
      ITEM
1A.   RISK FACTORS
      
        
In addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this Form
10-K and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk
factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our
business.  Our business, financial condition or financial results
could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks.
      
      Our
business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Economic
trends and the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect
our ability, and the ability of our suppliers, to obtain financing for
operations and capital expenditures.
      
        
Our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material
adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our
control.  These factors include interference with, or termination of,
our relationships with certain railroads, significant increases or rapid
fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums,
self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the trucking industry, license and
registration fees, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse weather
conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value
of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and difficulty in
attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors and
third-party carriers.
      
      We are also affected by recessionary
economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in
market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a
significant concentration of customers.  Economic conditions represent
a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for
bad debt losses.  In addition, our results of operations may be
affected by seasonal factors.  Customers tend to reduce shipments
after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in
the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel
consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          7
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      We
depend on third parties in the operation of our business.
      
        
Our JBI business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its
transportation services.  The majority of these services are provided
pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads.  While we
have agreements with various Class I railroads, the majority of our business
travels on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the Norfolk Southern
railways.  The inability to utilize one or more of these railroads
could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating
results.  In addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported
to the United States through ports of call that are subject to labor union
contracts.  Work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports
could have a material adverse effect on our business.
      
        
Our ICS business segment utilizes third-party carriers.  Aside from
periodic use of our trailing equipment to fulfill certain loads, we do not own
the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering the
loads.  The inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers could
have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business
growth.
      
      Rapid
changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results.
      
        
Fuel costs can be very volatile.  We have a fuel surcharge revenue
program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically
enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs.  Most of
these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of
fuel.  However, there can be timing differences between a change in
our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our
customers.  In addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price
increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold
or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to
customers.  Rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could
have a material adverse effect on our operations or future
profitability.  As of December 31, 2009, we had no derivative
financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price
fluctuations.
      
      Ongoing
insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our
earnings.
       
      
          
Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which
could reduce our earnings.  During 2007, the self-insured portion of
our claims exposure for all claims was $500,000 per
occurrence.  During 2008 and 2009, the self-insured portion of our
claims was $500,000 per occurrence for personal injury and property damage and
$1 million per occurrence for workers’ compensation.  If the number or
severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating
results could be adversely affected.  We have renewed our policies for
2010 with substantially the same terms as our 2009 policies for personal injury
and property damage.  We have reduced the self-insured portion of our
workers’ compensation claims exposure and are substantially fully insured for
claims in 2010.  We purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above
which we are self-insured.  If these expenses increase and we are
unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be
materially and adversely affected.
      
      
      We
derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss
of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our
business.
      
        
For the calendar year ended December 31, 2009, our top 10 customers, based on
revenue, accounted for approximately 33% of our revenue.  Our JBI, JBT
and ICS segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their
customers.  While our DCS segment business may involve a written
contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no
assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or
continue at the same levels.  A reduction in or termination of our
services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse
effect on our business and operating results.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          8
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      
      We
operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of
compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations
could have a material adverse effect on our business.
      
        
The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business,
generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier
service, equipment operation, safety and financial reporting.  We are
audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various
safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations.  If we were
found to be out of compliance, the DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our
operations.
      
         Significant
changes in hours-of-service regulations and other motor carrier safety
regulations could negatively impact our operations due to lower driver
productivity or increased capital expenditures for monitoring and recordkeeping
equipment.
      
        
In January 2010, a set of more stringent emissions standards became effective
for model-year 2010 manufactured tractor engines.  While it is too
early to assess the impact of the new standards, our fuel costs, operating costs
and acquisition costs could be impacted.
      
      Our
operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the
violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.
      
        
We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the
handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge
and retention of storm water.  We operate in industrial areas, where
truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where
groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have
occurred.  Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or
seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among
others.  We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at
several of our facilities.  If a spill or other accident involving
hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable
laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and
operating results.  If we should fail to comply with applicable
environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties
and to civil and criminal liability.
      
      Difficulty
in attracting and retaining drivers, delivery personnel and third-party carriers
could affect our profitability and ability to grow.
      
         
If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary number of employees or
contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to
significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment
sit idle or dispose of the equipment altogether, which could adversely affect
our growth and profitability.  In addition, our ICS segment growth
could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we
rely to provide transportation services.
      
      We
operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry.  Numerous
factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to
compete with other carriers and private fleets.
      
      We
compete with many other transportation services providers of varying sizes and,
to a lesser extent, with LTL carriers and railroads, some of which have more
equipment and greater capital resources than we do.  Additionally,
some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain
business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which
may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our
profit margins.
      
      In an
effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects
so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in
some instances we may not be selected.  Many customers periodically
accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process
may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to
competitors.  Also, certain customers that operate private fleets to
transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby
reducing their need for our services.
      
      
        
          
          
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      Extreme
or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes
and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our
business results.
      
        
Certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our
operations.  Increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing
and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter
months.  Natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also
impact freight volumes and increase our costs.
       
      ITEM 1B