Item 1A. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become aware that it will not be achieved for any reason. 
 
PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
   We are one of the largest surface transportation, delivery, and logistics companies in North America. J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries, provides safe and reliable transportation and delivery services to a diverse group of customers and consumers throughout the continental United States, Canada, and Mexico. Unless otherwise indicated by the context, “we,” “us,” “our,” and “JBHT” refer to J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We were incorporated in Arkansas on August 10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public offering in 1983. Our service offerings include transportation of full-truckload containerized freight, which we directly transport utilizing our company-controlled revenue equipment and company drivers or independent contractors. We have arrangements with most of the major North American rail carriers to transport freight in containers or trailers. We also provide customized freight movement, revenue equipment, labor, systems, and delivery services that are tailored to meet individual customers’ requirements and typically involve long-term contracts. These arrangements are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized equipment, and freight network design. Our local and home delivery services typically are provided through a network of cross-dock service centers throughout the continental United States. Utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party carriers, we also provide comprehensive transportation and logistics services. In addition to full-load, dry-van operations, these unrelated outside carriers also provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload (LTL), and other specialized equipment, drivers, and services. Our customers’ business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies.
 
We believe our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing our four business segments and a full complement of logistics services through third parties, represents a competitive advantage. These segments include Intermodal (JBI), Dedicated Contract Services® (DCS), Integrated Capacity Solutions (ICS), and Truck (JBT). Our business is somewhat seasonal, with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during August through early November. Our DCS segment is subject to somewhat less seasonal variation than our other segments. For the calendar year ended December 31, 2014, our consolidated revenue totaled $6.2 billion, after the elimination of intersegment business. Of this total, 60% was generated by our JBI business segment, 22% by DCS, 12% by ICS, and 6% by JBT. For the year ended December 31, 2013, JBI represented 62%, DCS 22%, ICS 9%, and JBT 7% of our consolidated revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2012, JBI represented 61%, DCS 21%, ICS 9%, and JBT 9% of our consolidated revenue.
 
 

 
2


 
 
Additional general information about us is available at www.jbhunt.com. We make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our website, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our proxy statement, and our earnings releases. Our website also contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower policy, Board committee charters, and other corporate policies. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be a part of this annual report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.
 
Our Mission and Strategy
 
We forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategies. Working in concert, we strive to drive out excess cost, add value and function as an extension of their enterprises. Our strategy is based on utilizing an integrated, multimodal approach to provide capacity-oriented solutions centered on delivering customer value and industry-leading service. We believe our unique operating strategy can add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders.
 
We continually analyze where we believe additional capital should be invested and management’s resources should be focused to provide added benefits to our customers. These actions should, in turn, yield increasing returns to our stockholders. 
 
Increasingly, our customers are seeking energy-efficient transportation solutions to reduce both cost and greenhouse-gas emissions. Our intermodal service addresses both demands. Further, we are customizing dedicated solutions aimed at minimizing transportation-related carbon emissions. Efforts to improve fleet fuel efficiency are ongoing, and we are an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWaySM Transport Partner.
 
As always, we continue to ingrain safety into our corporate culture and strive to conduct all of our operations as safely as possible.
 
operating segments
 
Segment information is also included in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
JBI Segment
 
The transportation service offerings of our JBI segment utilize arrangements with most major North American rail carriers to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the continental United States, Canada, and Mexico. Our JBI segment began operations in 1989, forming a unique partnership with what is now the BNSF Railway Company; this was a watershed event in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload carriers in a joint service environment. JBI draws on the intermodal services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its equipment between rail ramps. The origin and destination pickup and delivery services (“drayage”) are handled by our company-owned tractors for the majority of our intermodal loads, while third-party dray carriers are used where economical. By performing our own drayage services, we are able to provide a cost-competitive, seamless coordination of the combined rail and dray movements for our customers.
 
JBI operates 73,298 pieces of company-owned trailing equipment systemwide. The fleet primarily consists of 53-foot, high-cube containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack economics and superior ride quality. We own and maintain our own chassis fleet, consisting of 65,455 units. The containers and chassis are uniquely designed so that they may only be paired together, which we feel creates an operational competitive advantage. JBI also manages a fleet of 3,916 company-owned tractors, 761 independent contractor trucks, and 4,756 company drivers. At December 31, 2014, the total JBI employee count was 5,340. Revenue for the JBI segment in 2014 was $3.7 billion.
 
 

 
3


 
 
DCS Segment
 
DCS focuses on private fleet conversion and creation in replenishment, specialized equipment, and final-mile delivery services. We specialize in the design, development, and execution of supply-chain solutions that support a variety of transportation networks. Our final-mile delivery services are supported with a network of approximately 89 cross-dock locations nationwide, with 98% of the continental U.S. population living within 150 miles of a cross-dock location. Contracts with our customers are long-term, ranging from three to ten years, with the average being approximately five years. Pricing of our contracts typically involves cost-plus arrangements, with our fixed costs being recovered regardless of equipment utilization, but is customized based on invested capital and duration.
 
At December 31, 2014, this segment operated 6,425 company-owned trucks, 448 customer-owned trucks, and 7 independent contractor trucks. DCS also operates 13,852 owned pieces of trailing equipment and 6,664 customer-owned trailers. The DCS segment employed 9,466 people, including 7,833 drivers, at December 31, 2014. DCS revenue for 2014 was $1.4 billion.
 
ICS Segment
 
ICS provides traditional freight brokerage and transportation logistics solutions to customers through relationships with thousands of third-party carriers and integration with our owned equipment. By leveraging the J.B. Hunt brand, systems, and network, we provide a broader service offering to customers by providing flatbed, refrigerated, expedited, and LTL, as well as a variety of dry-van and intermodal solutions. ICS provides single-source logistics management for customers desiring to outsource their transportation functions and utilize our proven supply-chain technology and design expertise to improve efficiency. ICS operates 29 remote sales offices or branches, as well as on-site logistics personnel working in direct contact with customers.
 
At December 31, 2014, the ICS segment employed 582 people, with a carrier base of approximately 39,100. ICS revenue for 2014 was $718 million.
 
JBT Segment
 
The service offering in this segment is full-load, dry-van freight, utilizing tractors operating over roads and highways. We typically pick up freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load directly to the location of the consignee. We use our company-owned tractors and employee drivers or independent contractors who agree to transport freight in our trailers.
 
At December 31, 2014, the JBT segment operated 1,296 company-owned tractors and employed 1,604 people, 1,378 of whom were drivers. At December 31, 2014, we had 590 independent contractors operating in the JBT segment. JBT revenue for 2014 was $386 million.
 
Marketing and Operations
 
We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of freight, including general merchandise, specialty consumer items, appliances, forest and paper products, food and beverages, building materials, soaps and cosmetics, automotive parts, agricultural products, electronics, and chemicals. Our customers’ business activities are extremely diverse, and our customer base includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies. We provide a broad range of transportation services to shippers seeking to use a variety of transportation options to optimize their supply-chain logistics needs.
 
We generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide sales and marketing network. We use a specific sales force in DCS due to the length, complexity, and specialization of the sales cycle. In addition, ICS utilizes its own local branch salespeople. In accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services, and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation services provided.
 
 

 
4


 
 
People
 
We believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors is our service-oriented people. As of December 31, 2014, we had 20,158 employees, which consisted of 13,967 company drivers, 5,059 office personnel, and 1,132 maintenance technicians. We also had arrangements with approximately 1,358 independent contractors to transport freight in our trailing equipment. None of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements.
 
Revenue Equipment
 
Our JBI segment utilizes uniquely designed high-cube containers and chassis, which can only be paired with each other and can be separated to allow the containers to be double-stacked on rail cars. The composition of our DCS trailing fleet varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds, temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks, and dump trailers. We primarily utilize third-party carriers’ tractor and trailing equipment for our ICS segment. Our JBT segment operates primarily with 53-foot dry-van trailers.
 
As of December 31, 2014, our company-owned tractor and truck fleet consisted of 11,637 units. In addition, we had 1,358 independent contractors who operate their own tractors but transport freight in our trailing equipment. We operate with standardized tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT fleets. Due to our customers’ preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is extremely diversified. We believe operating with relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts quality drivers, and lowers maintenance expense. At December 31, 2014, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was 2.3 years, while our containers averaged 5.2 years of age and our trailers averaged 9.5 years. We perform routine servicing and preventive maintenance on our equipment at our regional terminal facilities.
 
Competition and the Industry
 
The freight transportation markets in which we operate are frequently referred to as highly fragmented and competitive. Our JBI segment competes with other intermodal marketing companies; other full-load carriers that utilize railroads for a portion of the transportation service; and, to a certain extent, some railroads directly. The diversified nature of the services provided by our DCS segment attracts competition from customers’ private fleets, other private fleet outsourcing companies, equipment leasing companies, local and regional delivery service providers, and some truckload carriers. Our ICS segment utilizes the fragmented nature of the truck industry and competes with other non-asset-based logistics companies and freight brokers, as well as full-load carriers. The full-load freight competition of our JBT segment includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very small. While we compete with a number of smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all markets across the country.
 
We compete with other transportation service companies primarily in terms of price, on-time pickup and delivery service, availability and type of equipment capacity, and availability of carriers for logistics services.
 
Regulation
 
Our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA), and certain business is also subject to state rules and regulations. The DOT periodically conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with federal safety requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the DOT. Our operations into and out of Canada and Mexico are subject to regulation by those countries.
 
In 2011, the FMCSA amended the hours-of-service (HOS) safety requirements for commercial truck drivers. The remaining provisions of the amended HOS rules became effective July 1, 2013, and we experienced some negative impact on our productivity as a result. However, in December 2014, as a result of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015, the FMCSA was required to rescind the 34-hour restart provision of the amended HOS rules to the pre-July 1, 2013, requirements. Furthermore, the FMCSA was required to conduct a field study measuring the safety benefit of the amended HOS rules before and after this rule change. This rule rescission is considered temporary pending the outcome of the study. We continue to evaluate and adjust the various segments of our operations toward the ultimate impact of these changes in HOS safety requirements.
 
 

 
5


 
 
In 2011, the FMCSA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to require currently logging drivers to complete their logs using an Electronic Logging Device (ELD). The final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the third quarter of 2015. Since the issuance of this proposal, we have successfully implemented a plan to replace any legacy on-board recording equipment within our fleets. At December 31, 2014, we had replaced approximately 90% of this equipment. We do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity.
 
In 2013, the FMCSA, in conjunction with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, submitted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to require the installation of speed-limiting devices on heavy trucks. The final rule regarding this proposal is expected to be published in the third quarter of 2015. We believe this rule will have minimal implementation cost, as all of our heavy trucks subject to this rule already have these devices installed. We do not anticipate a negative impact on our operations or productivity. 
 
We continue to monitor the actions of the FMCSA and other regulatory agencies and evaluate all proposed rules to determine their impact on our operations.
 
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
 
In addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in this Form 10-K and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks.
 
Our business is subject to general economic and business factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Economic trends and the tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our ability, and the ability of our customers and suppliers, to obtain financing for operations and capital expenditures.
 
Our business is dependent upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include interference with or termination of our relationships with certain railroads; disruptions to U.S. port-of-call activity; significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, fuel taxes, interest rates, insurance premiums, self-insurance levels, excess capacity in the intermodal or trucking industries, or license and registration fees; terrorist attacks or actions; acts of war; adverse weather conditions; disruption or failure of information technology systems; increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in the value of used equipment; increased tariffs assessed on or disruptions in the procurement of imported revenue equipment; and difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, independent contractors, and third-party carriers. 
 
We are also affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions represent a greater potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. In addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. Customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs.
 
We depend on third parties in the operation of our business.
 
Our JBI business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. The majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. While we have agreements with a number of Class I railroads, the majority of our business travels on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the Norfolk Southern railways. A material change in the relationship with or the inability to utilize one or more of these railroads or the overall service levels provided by these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the United States through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. Work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business.
 
 

 
6


 
 
We also utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers to complete our services. These third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. Aside from when these third parties may use our trailing equipment to fulfill loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. The inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers and independent contractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth.
 
Rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results.
 
Fuel costs can be very volatile. We have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. Most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. However, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. In addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. Rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. As of December 31, 2014, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.
 
Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings.
 
Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have policies in place for 2015 with substantially the same terms as our 2014 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers’ compensation, and cargo loss or damage. We purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. If these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected.
 
We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.
 
For the calendar year ended December 31, 2014, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 28% of our revenue. Our JBI, ICS, and JBT segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. While our DCS segment business may involve a long-term written contract, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.
 
We operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.
 
The DOT and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety, and financial reporting. We are audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. If we were found to be out of compliance, the DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our operations.
 
 

 
7


 
 
Difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers and delivery personnel could affect our profitability and ability to grow.
 
If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle, dispose of the equipment altogether, or rely more on higher-cost third-party carriers, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. In addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services.
 
We rely significantly on our information technology systems, a disruption, failure or security breach of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.
 
We rely on information technology throughout all areas of our business to initiate, track, and complete customer orders; process financial and nonfinancial data; compile results of operations for internal and external reporting; and achieve operating efficiencies and growth. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to various interruptions, including equipment or network failures, failed upgrades or replacement of software, user error, power outages, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers, or other security breaches. We have mitigated our exposure to these risks through the establishment and maintenance of technology security programs and disaster recovery plans, but these mitigating activities may not be sufficient. A significant disruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could include operational disruptions, loss of confidential information, external reporting delays or errors, legal claims, or damage to our business reputation.
 
We operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. Numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets.
 
We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with LTL carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins.
 
In an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. Also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services.
 
Extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes, and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results.
 
Certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. Increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. Natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs.
 
Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.
 
We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. If a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.
 
 

 
8


 
 
ITEM 1B