Item 1A.  We assume no
obligation to update any forward-looking statement to the extent we become
aware that it will not be achieved for any reason.

PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

We are one of the largest
surface transportation companies in North America.  J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc. is a
publicly held holding company that, together with our wholly owned subsidiaries
and associated companies, provides a wide range of transportation services to a
diverse group of customers throughout the continental United States, Canada and
Mexico.  Unless otherwise indicated by
the context, “we,” “us,” “our” and “JBHT” refer to J.B. Hunt Transport
Services, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  We were incorporated in Arkansas on August
10, 1961, and have been a publicly held company since our initial public
offering in 1983.  Our service offerings
include transportation of full-load freight, which we directly transport in
multi-modal arrangements utilizing our company-owned revenue equipment and
company drivers, independent contractors, or third parties.  This full-load freight may be transported
entirely by truck over roads and highways, or may be moved, in part, by rail.  We have arrangements with most of the major
North American rail carriers to transport freight in containers and
trailers.  We also provide customized
freight movement, revenue equipment, labor and systems services that are
tailored to meet individual customers’ requirements and typically involve
long-term contracts.  These arrangements
are generally referred to as dedicated services and may include multiple
pickups and drops, local and home deliveries, freight handling, specialized
equipment and network design.  We also
provide integrated capacity and comprehensive transportation services and
solutions by utilizing a network of thousands of reliable third-party
carriers.  While these unrelated outside
carriers at times supplement our dry van, full-load operations, they also
provide flatbed, refrigerated, less-than-truckload and other specialized
equipment, drivers and services.  In
addition, we have a 37% ownership interest in a global transportation logistics
company, Transplace, Inc. (TPI).  TPI is
co-owned by five large transportation companies and provides supplemental
sales, management and freight-movement services through arrangements with a
large number of common carriers.


 3 






Our business operations are
primarily organized through three distinct, but complementary, business
segments.  These segments include
intermodal (JBI), dedicated contract services (DCS), and full-load dry-van
(JBT).  Our business is somewhat seasonal
with slightly higher freight volumes typically experienced during the months of
August through early November.  Our DCS
segment is subject to less seasonal variation than our JBI and JBT
segments.  For the calendar year ended
December 31, 2006, our consolidated revenue totaled $3.3 billion, after the
elimination of inter-segment business. 
Of the total, $1.4 billion, or 42%, was generated by our JBI business
segment.  Our JBT segment generated $1.0
billion, or 30%, of total revenue and DCS represented $915 million, or 28%.

Additional general
information about us is available from our Internet website at www.jbhunt.com.  We
make a number of reports and other information available free of charge on our
website, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our proxy statement and our
earnings releases.  Our website also
contains corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, our whistleblower
policy, committee charters for our Board of Directors and other corporate
policies.

OUR MISSION AND STRATEGY

We forge long-term partnerships with key customers that include
supply-chain management as an integral part of their strategy.  Working in concert, we drive out cost, add
value and function as an extension of our customers’ enterprise.  We believe that our operating strategy can
add value to customers and increase our profits and returns to stockholders.

RECENT FOCUS

During the past several years, we have taken significant steps to re-establish
a primary focus on the profitability of our three business segments.  In each segment we have implemented capacity
management decision making processes that result in the deployment of our
assets where we believe they will generate more profit.  We continually focus on replacing
less-profitable freight with higher-margin freight and lanes.  Selective pricing actions and ensuring that
we properly charge for all services provided have also been areas of major
focus.

In addition, a continuing shortage of qualified drivers and fundamental
changes in shipper supply-chain transportation logistics have resulted in the
conversion of freight from traditional random truckload to intermodal and
dedicated operations.  We continue to
ingrain safety into our corporate culture and conduct all of our operations as
safely as possible.

OPERATING SEGMENTS

Segment information is
included in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

JBI Segment

The transportation service offerings of our
JBI segment utilize arrangements with most major North American rail carriers
to provide intermodal freight solutions for our customers throughout the
continental United States, Canada and Mexico. 
Our JBI segment began operations in 1989 with a unique partnership with
the former Santa Fe Railway (now the BNSF Railway Company), a watershed event
in the industry and the first agreement that linked major rail and truckload
carriers in a joint marketing environment. 
Essentially, JBI draws on the intermodal (also known as “container on
flatcar”) services of rail carriers for the underlying linehaul movement of its
equipment and performs the pickups and deliveries (“drayage”) for customers at
the origin and destination rail terminal locations. We may directly provide the
drayage service at either the origin or destination rail ramp utilizing our
company-owned tractors, or we may purchase these services from third
parties.  JBI provides seamless coordination
of the rail and over-the-road transport movements for our customers and
delivers a single billing for the complete door-to-door service.


 4 






Our intermodal program has grown from 20
loads in late 1989 to nearly 630,000 in 2006. 
JBI operates 27,622 company-controlled containers systemwide.  The entire fleet comprises 53-foot, high-cube
containers and is designed to take advantage of intermodal double-stack
economics and superior ride quality.  JBI
also manages a fleet of 1,551 company-owned tractors and 1,946 company drivers
in support of intermodal operations.  We
also began utilizing independent contractors (ICs) in our intermodal segment
during 2005.  We had 23 ICs operating in
our JBI business segment at December 31, 2006. 
At December 31, 2006, the total JBI employee count was 2,189, including
the 1,946 drivers.  Revenue for the JBI
segment in calendar year 2006 was $1.43 billion, compared with $1.28 billion in
2005.  As previously announced, an
arbitration process with the BNSF Railway Company (BNI) was concluded during
the third quarter of 2005.  In accordance
with the settlement terms, we paid BNI $25.8 million in the third quarter of
2005.  In addition, this settlement also
resulted in higher rail purchase transportation expenses effective October 1,
2005.  Normal commercial business activity
continued with BNI during the approximate 15-month arbitration process, and
normal business operations have continued since the final settlement.

DCS Segment

Since 1992, we have offered dedicated contract carriage as a service
option.  DCS segment operations
specialize in the design, development and execution of customer-specific fleet
solutions.  Capitalizing on advanced
systems and technologies, DCS offers transportation engineering solutions that
support private fleet conversion, dedicated fleet creation and transportation
system augmentation.  DCS operations
typically provide customized services that are governed by long-term contracts
and currently include dry-van, flatbed, temperature-controlled, dump trailers
and local inner-city operations.

DCS operations focus on delivering
recognizable customer value through best-in-class service, cost control and
guaranteed dedicated capacity.  DCS
utilizes a proprietary methodology known as Customer Value Delivery® (CVD) to
create, measure and communicate value generated for each customer.  DCS leverages the JBHT freight network to
reposition equipment near outbound domiciles, thereby reducing inefficient
empty miles and system cost.  DCS also
frequently finds synergy in shared resources with the JBT and JBI segments,
including terminals, drivers, maintenance shops, bulk fuel locations and
trailer pools providing further economies of scale.  DCS revenue for calendar year 2006 was $915
million, compared with $844 million in 2005. 
In early 2004, we began utilizing ICs in the DCS segment and at December
31, 2006, we had 122 ICs operating in the DCS segment.  At December 31, 2006, the DCS segment
operated 5,177 company-controlled and 59 customer-owned tractors and employed
6,242 people, 5,496 of whom were drivers.

JBT Segment

Our primary transportation service offerings
classified in this segment include full-load, dry-van freight, which is
predominantly transported utilizing company-controlled tractors operating over
roads and highways.  We pick up our
freight at the dock or specified location of the shipper and transport the load
directly to the location of the consignee. 
Most of our loads are transported entirely by our company-owned tractors
and employee drivers, or by independent contractors who agree to transport
freight in our trailers.  We also assign
freight to be handled by third-party motor carriers other than ICs.  This type of freight movement typically
results in our billing the customer for all applicable freight charges and, in
turn, paying the third party for their portion of the transportation services
provided.  This type of service usually
results in our recognition of revenue for the entire billing and the payment to
the third-party being classified as purchased transportation expense.

We operate under the approval of certain Canadian authorities, allowing
us to transport freight to and from all points in the continental United States
to Quebec, British Columbia and Ontario. 
We have authorization to operate directly in substantially all the
Canadian provinces, but to date we have served limited points in Canada,
primarily through interchange operations with Canadian motor carriers.  In late 2000, we began utilizing ICs in the
JBT segment and at December 31, 2006, we had 962 ICs operating in the JBT
segment, some of whom were leasing company-controlled tractors.  JBT revenue for calendar year 2006 was $1.01
billion, compared with $1.02 billion in 2005. 
At December 31, 2006, the JBT 


 5 






segment
operated 4,232 company-owned tractors and employed 5,916 people, 4,981 of whom
were drivers.  A portion of our JBT
segment non-driver employees provide freight solicitation, order entry and
other operational support services to our other two segments.  We record inter-segment credits and charges
to properly reflect these inter-segment support services.

Logistics Business and Associated Company

Effective July 1, 2000, we contributed an existing logistics segment
business to a newly formed company, Transplace, Inc. (TPI).  TPI provides supplemental logistics sales and
management support and also has arrangements with approximately 2,700 motor
carriers to provide capacity to transport freight.  Our share of TPI’s financial results is
included on a one-line, non-operating item included on our Consolidated
Statements of Earnings entitled “equity in loss of associated company.”

Operations in Mexico

We have provided transportation services to and from Mexico since
1989.  These services typically involve
equipment interchange operations with various Mexican motor carriers.  As previously reported, we sold a joint
venture interest with a Mexican transportation company in 2002.  We received all remaining funds due in
connection with this sale during 2005. 
This transaction did not significantly impact our earnings.  We continue to provide transportation
services to and from Mexico primarily by utilizing the services of a variety of
Mexican carriers.

Marketing and Operations

We transport, or arrange for the transportation of, a wide range of
freight, including forest and paper products, building materials, general
merchandise, food and beverages, chemicals and automotive parts.  Our customer base is extremely diverse and
includes a large number of Fortune 500 companies.  Our ability to offer multiple services, utilizing
our three business segments and a full complement of logistics services through
third parties, represents a competitive advantage.  We provide a broad range of transportation
services to larger shippers that seek to use a limited number of “core” carriers.  Our largest customer in 2006 was Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc., which accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue.

We generally market all of our service offerings through a nationwide
sales and marketing network.  We do have
some sales and marketing functions managed at the business-unit level,
particularly for our DCS segment.  In
accordance with our typical arrangements, we bill the customer for all services
and we, in turn, pay all third parties for their portion of transportation
services provided.  In recent years, we
have re-established a primary focus on improving the profitability of each of
our business segments and charging a fair price for all services provided.

People

We believe that one of the factors differentiating us from our competitors
is our service-oriented people.  As of
December 31, 2006, we had approximately 17,150 employees, including 12,423
company drivers, 1,175 mechanics and 3,548 office personnel.  We also had arrangements with 1,107 ICs to
transport freight in our trailing equipment. 
None of our employees is represented by unions or covered by collective
bargaining agreements.

Our industry has periodically had a difficult time attracting and
retaining enough qualified truck drivers. 
It is also common for the driver turnover rate of individual carriers to
exceed 100%.  It has been our practice
during the past few years to compensate our drivers at an above-average level
in order to attract a higher caliber of experience and minimize turnover.  During 2006 and 2005, we increased company
driver and IC compensation in order to attract and retain an adequate supply of
qualified drivers.  While we have not, to
date, experienced significant operational disruptions due to driver shortages,
we expect the costs to recruit, train and retain company drivers and ICs will
continue to rise in the foreseeable future.


 6 






Revenue Equipment

As of December 31, 2006, we operated 10,961 company-owned
tractors.  In addition, our 1,107 ICs
operate their own tractors, but transport freight in our trailing
equipment.  We operate with standardized
tractors in as many fleets as possible, particularly in our JBI and JBT
fleets.  Based on our customers’
preferences and the actual business application, our DCS fleet is more
diversified.  We believe operating with
relatively newer revenue equipment provides better customer service, attracts
quality drivers and lowers maintenance expense. 
At December 31, 2006, the average age of our combined tractor fleet was
2.2 years, our trailers averaged 5.7 years of age and our containers averaged
6.5 years.  We perform routine servicing
and preventive maintenance of our equipment at most of our regional terminal
facilities.

Our JBI segment utilizes high-cube containers, which can be separated
from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars.  We are currently in the process of expanding
our container fleet and reconditioning our chassis fleet.  The composition of our DCS trailing fleet
varies with specific customer requirements and may include dry-vans, flatbeds,
temperature-controlled, curtain-side vans, straight trucks and dump trailers.  We typically operate newer revenue equipment
in our JBT segment to minimize downtime and maximize utilization.

Effective with model-year 2007 tractors, the EPA has mandated lower
emission standards for newly manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines.  We are planning our new equipment purchases
to accommodate these new standards but allow adequate testing of the new
engines.  The 2007 EPA-compliant engines
will be equipped with a particulate trap and will require more costly
ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ULSD) fuel.  The
EPA estimates that ULSD fuel will cost approximately $.04 to $.05 more per
gallon.  In 2006, we began testing the
2007 model-year engines in a group of our tractors.  We are unable at this time to determine the
increase in acquisition and operating costs of these new 2007 EPA-compliant
engines.

Competition and the Industry

The market in which we compete is frequently referred to as highly
fragmented and includes thousands of carriers, many of which are very
small.  While we compete with a number of
smaller carriers on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies
represent competition in all markets across the country.  We compete with other freight transportation
carriers primarily in terms of on-time pickup and delivery service,
availability of drivers, and revenue equipment and price.

Regulation

Our operations as a for-hire motor carrier are subject to regulation by
the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, and certain business is also subject to state rules and
regulations.  The DOT periodically
conducts reviews and audits to ensure our compliance with all federal safety
requirements, and we report certain accident and other information to the
DOT.  Our operations into and out of
Canada and Mexico are also subject to regulation by those countries.

Effective October 1, 2005, driver hours-of-service regulations (HOS)
were revised.  The majority of these rule
changes had initially been effective January 4, 2004.  These collective changes were the most
significant changes to driver HOS in more than 40 years.  In general, the new rules require a driver to
take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a ten-hour
off-duty period.  These new rules
primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop freight operations and had a
minor negative impact on our overall operations and financial results.

ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS

In addition to the forward-looking statements outlined previously in
this Form 10-K and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the
following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our
business.  Our business, financial
condition or financial results could be materially 


 7 






and
adversely affected by any of these risks. 
Also note that additional risks not currently identified or known to us
could also negatively impact our business or financial results.

Our business is subject to
general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any
of which could have a material adverse effect  on our results of
operations.

Our business is dependent
upon a number of factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results
of our operations, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors include significant increases
or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, excess capacity in the trucking industry,
interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, insurance premiums,
self-insurance levels, interference with or termination of our relationships
with certain railroads, terrorist attacks or actions, acts of war, adverse
weather conditions, increased costs for new revenue equipment or decreases in
the value of used equipment, surpluses in the market for used equipment, and
difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and independent
contractors.

We are also affected by
recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles,
particularly in market segments and industries such as retail and
manufacturing, where we have a significant concentration of customers.  Economic conditions represent a greater
potential for loss, and we may be required to increase our reserve for bad-debt
losses.  In addition, our results of
operations may be affected by seasonal factors. 
Customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and
our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months primarily due to
colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time
and higher maintenance costs.

We operate in a competitive and
somewhat fragmented industry.  Numerous
factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to
compete with other carriers and private fleets.

Some of these factors
include:

·                  We compete with many other transportation
carriers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with less-than-truckload
carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital
resources than we do.

·                  Some of our competitors periodically reduce
their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth
rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase
freight rates or maintain our profit margins.

·                  Many customers reduce the number of carriers
they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation
service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected.

·                  Many customers periodically accept bids from
multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress
freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors.

·                  Certain of our customers that operate private
fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations.

·                  The trend toward consolidation in the
trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial
resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size.

·                  Advances in technology require increased
investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to
accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments.


 8 






We derive a significant portion
of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which
could have a material adverse effect on our business.

For the calendar year ended
December 31, 2006, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for
approximately 40% of our revenue.  Our
largest customer is Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which accounted for approximately
14% of our total revenue in 2006.  Our
JBT and JBI segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their
customers.  While our DCS segment
business may involve a written contract, those contracts may contain
cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will
continue to utilize our services or that they will continue at the same
levels.  A reduction in or termination of
our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material
adverse effect on our business and operating results.

We depend on third parties in the
operation of our business.

Our JBI business segment
utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services.  These services are provided pursuant to
contractual relationships with the railroads. 
While we have agreements with various Class I railroads, the majority of
our business travels on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the Norfolk
Southern Railroad.  The inability to
utilize one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on
our business and operating results.  We
also utilize the services of a number of third-party dray carriers to perform a
significant number of our origin and destination pickups and deliveries.  In addition, a portion of the freight we
deliver is imported to the United States through ports of call that are subject
to labor union contracts.

Difficulty in attracting and
retaining drivers could affect our profitability and ability to grow.

Periodically, the trucking
industry experiences substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining
qualified drivers, including ICs.  A
shortage of qualified company drivers and ICs has proven to be particularly
severe during the past few years.  In
spite of continued increases in driver compensation and recruiting costs, the
industry is currently experiencing a shortage of drivers.  If we are unable to continue attracting an
adequate number of drivers or contract with enough independent contractors, we
could be required to significantly increase our driver compensation package or
let trucks sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.

Ongoing insurance and claims
expenses could significantly reduce our earnings.

Our future insurance and
claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our
earnings.  During 2005, we self-insured a
portion of our claims exposure resulting from cargo loss, personal injury,
property damage and health claims for amounts up to the first $2 million for
auto accidents and $1 million for workers’ compensation.  During 2006, the self-insured portion of our
claims exposure for all claims was reduced to $500,000.  If the number or severity of claims for which
we are self-insured increases, our operating results could be adversely
affected.  The self-insured portion of
our claims will also be $500,000 during 2007. 
We purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are
self-insured.  Insurance carriers have
recently raised premiums for most trucking companies.  As a result, our insurance and claims
expenses could increase when our current coverage expires.  If these expenses increase, and we are unable
to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be
materially and adversely affected.

The Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits associated with certain
sale-and-leaseback transactions.

As previously disclosed, the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has proposed to disallow the tax benefits
associated with certain sale-and-leaseback transactions, which we entered into
in 1999.  Based on events occurring
subsequent to December 31, 2004, we established a reserve for a contingent tax
liability of $33.6 million at December 31, 2004.  The liability for this contingency, which
includes estimated interest, is included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at
December 31, 2006, as a long-term liability. 
We have accrued approximately $3.0 million of interest expense during
2006 related to this contingency.  We 


 9 






continue to believe our tax positions comply with
applicable tax law for which we received advice and opinions from our then
external public accountants and attorneys prior to entering into these
transactions, and we continue to vigorously defend against the IRS position
using all administrative and legal processes available.  If the IRS were successful in disallowing
100% of the tax benefit from this transaction, the total ultimate impact on
liquidity could be approximately $44 million, excluding interest.

Our operations are subject to
various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result
in substantial fines or penalties.

We are subject to various
environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous
materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm
water.  We operate in industrial areas,
where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where
groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred.  Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage
or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous wastes disposal, among
others.  We also maintain bulk fuel
storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities.  If we are involved in a spill or other
accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation
of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on
our business and operating results.  If
we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be
subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability.

We operate in a regulated
industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or
liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

The DOT and various state
agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters
including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment
operation, safety and financial reporting. 
We are audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance
with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations.  If we were found to be out of compliance, the
DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our operations.

Effective October 1, 2005,
driver HOS regulations were revised.  The
majority of these rule changes had initially been effective January 4,
2004.  These collective changes were the
most significant changes to driver HOS in more than 40 years.  In general, the new rules require a driver to
take at least eight consecutive hours in the sleeper berth during a 10-hour
off-duty period.  These new rules
primarily affect short-haul and multiple-stop freight operations and had a
minor negative impact on our overall operations and financial results.

Effective with model-year
2007 tractors, the EPA has mandated lower emission standards for newly
manufactured heavy-duty tractor engines. 
We are planning our new equipment purchases to accommodate these new
standards but also to allow adequate time for testing of the new engines. In
2006, we began testing the 2007 model-year engines in a group of our
tractors.  We are unable to predict the
impact these new standards will have on our future operations and business
results.

Rapid changes in fuel costs could
impact our periodic financial results.

Fuel and fuel taxes
currently represent our third-largest general expense category.  During the past several years, fuel cost per
gallon has varied significantly, with prices at times changing as much as $0.20
to $0.25 per gallon between consecutive months. 
We have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of
our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of
higher fuel costs.  Most of these
programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel.  However, there can be timing differences
between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed
to our customers.  In addition, we incur
additional costs when fuel prices rise that cannot be fully recovered due to
our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route
miles that cannot be billed to customers. 
Rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material
adverse effect on our operations or future profitability.  As of December 31, 2006, we had no derivative
financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations.


 10










ITEM 1B