Item 1A. Risk
Factors—Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Matters and Item 3. Legal Proceedings. 


 Environmental Matters  

        We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other
things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. 

        Certain
environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties
or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims
due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. We have received notification from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible
remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. We have projects underway at a number of
current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. 

        Given
uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at
disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. Based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable
that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $27 million to $85 million. As of September 24, 2010, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is
approximately $34 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $16 million is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. 

 Employees  

        As of September 24, 2010, we employed approximately 108,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 41,000 are employed in the
United States and 67,000 are outside the United States. Approximately 29,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the
labor unions are generally good. 

10






<A
NAME="page_cc15601_1_11"> 









































Table of Contents 

 Available Information  

        Tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may read
and copy any document that Tyco files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Investors may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at  http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy
and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
SEC, from which investors can electronically access Tyco's SEC filings. 

        Our
Internet website is www.tyco.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section
13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a Swiss company,
we prepare Swiss statutory financial statements, including Swiss consolidated financial statements, on an annual basis. A copy of the Swiss statutory financial statements is distributed along with our
annual report to shareholders, and all of the aforementioned reports will be made available to our shareholders upon their request. In addition, we have posted the charters for our Audit Committee,
Compensation and
Human Resources Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee, as well as our Board Governance Principles and Guide to Ethical Conduct, on our website under the heading "Corporate
Citizenship—Governance." The annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. We will also provide a copy of these documents free of
charge to shareholders upon request.  

<A
NAME="cc15601_item_1a._risk_factors"> 
    Item 1A.    Risk Factors        

        You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The
risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as technological obsolescence, labor relations, geopolitical
events, climate change and international operations.

 Risks Relating to Our Businesses  



 General economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  



        Our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of
certain industries in which we operate. For example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial construction, the amount of discretionary consumer and
business spending, and the performance of the housing market, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. Recent economic weakness has adversely affected our businesses. For
example, weakness in the North American and European non-residential construction markets have adversely impacted the system installation and service portion of our ADT Worldwide business, and weak
global economic conditions have also adversely impacted our Flow Control business. Continued weakness in the U.S. or global economies, or in the industries in which we operate, could have a material
negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

11




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 We face intense competition in each of our businesses, and competitive challenges from lower cost manufacturers. If we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global
market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected.  



        We operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service
providers, both domestically and on a global basis. Our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in Asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from
alternative service providers around the world. Key components of our competitive position are our ability to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. This
requires continuous management focus on reducing costs, maintaining our competitive position and improving efficiency through cost controls, productivity enhancements and regular appraisal of our
asset portfolio. If we are unable to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our
operating results may be adversely affected. 



 Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to successfully compete with new and existing competitors by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve
market acceptance with acceptable margins.  



        Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and
potential new entrants in our markets. For example, a number of cable and other telecommunications companies have introduced interactive security services that are competitive with the products and
services offered through our ADT Worldwide business. Although these competitive products and services are currently in the initial stages of development and test marketing, if they were to be
aggressively marketed and gained market acceptance, our ability to grow our ADT Worldwide business could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of
factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; develop, acquire and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our products and services
by adding innovative features that differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; and develop or acquire, manufacture and bring products and services to market quickly and
cost-effectively. Our ability to develop or acquire new products and services based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant
resources. These acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or
services on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products
and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. As a result, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance or their obsolescence could significantly reduce our
revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 



 Our ADT business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related
to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense.  



        Although attrition rates for customers in our ADT Worldwide business decreased over the prior year to an average of 12.8% for 2010, as
compared to 13.3% for 2009, and 12.9% in 2008, attrition rates may increase in the future due to reasons such as customer dissatisfaction or competitive offerings. In periods of increasing attrition
rates, ADT's recurring revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. The risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty. Tyco amortizes the costs of ADT's contracts and
related customer relationships purchased through the ADT dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. Internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly
depreciated. If attrition rates were to rise significantly, 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

Tyco
may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
results of operations. 



 We have significant operations outside of the United States, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the United States.  



        We generated 51% of our net revenue outside of the United States in 2010. We expect net revenue generated outside of the United States
to continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenue. Business operations outside of the United States are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in
certain countries, such as: 



•the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems;  
•trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;   
•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of certain labor regulations outside of the
United States;   
•compliance with a wide variety of non-U.S. laws and regulations;   
•changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging
markets;   
•the threat of nationalization and expropriation;   
•increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions;   
•changes in enacted tax laws;   
•limitations on repatriation of earnings; and  
•fluctuations in revenues, operating margins and other financial measures due to changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. 


        Changes
in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows. 



 Volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations or cash flows.  



        We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest
rates. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

        Our
net revenue derived from sales in non-U.S. markets for 2010 was 51% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant
portion of our total net revenue. Therefore, if the U.S. dollar has strengthened in relation to the principle foreign currencies where we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our U.S. dollar
reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of
operations. Our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. dollars, our functional currency (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheet data and
average exchange rates for statement of operations data). 


        In
addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated
significantly in 

13




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



recent
years. Increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our
customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, in a declining price
environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. This is most pronounced in our Electrical and Metal Products segment, which we
have agreed to sell a 51% interest, where fluctuations in the price of copper and steel can negatively affect both revenue and operating margins. 

        We
monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these
fluctuations. These hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 



 Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  



        We continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. For example, we recently
announced that we have agreed to sell a 51% interest in our Electrical and Metal Products business segment to an affiliate of Clayton, Dubilier and Rice, LLC for approximately $720 million. The
sale is expected to close in the first half of 2011. Divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's
attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the
divested business. In addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business
or product line. 



 Our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. These acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful
or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results.  



        Acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: 



•diversion of management time and attention from daily operations;   
•difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business;   
•inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms;  
•potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us;
and  
•assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. 


        It
may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. Any acquisitions or investments may
ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. 

14




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 If we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely
basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer.  



        We purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. If we cannot obtain
sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments
may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. In addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing
capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. Any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market
acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 



 Failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business.  



        The Company's culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular it
strives to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. If we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, the Company's
operations could be adversely affected. In addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. The demand for experienced management in
certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified employees. High turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact the Company's operating
results. 



 We have recognized substantial impairment charges in the past and may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future.  



        Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill,
intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in
operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. During the second fiscal quarter of
2009, we recognized aggregate goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $2.7 billion, resulting primarily from a slowdown in the commercial markets including the retailer end market in
certain of our businesses; a decline in sales volume at our Electrical and Metal Products segment; and downward revisions to forecasted results, restructuring actions and weaker industry outlooks. As
a result, the Company recognized an aggregate goodwill impairment of $2.6 billion ($2.6 billion after-tax) at six of our reporting units and intangible asset impairments of
$64 million ($40 million after-tax). The Company believes that our goodwill balance as of September 24, 2010 is recoverable. However, fair value determinations require
considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. Additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment
analysis. Future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents


 Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Matters  



 We are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  



        We are subject to a significant number of claims and are named as a defendant in numerous lawsuits, including claims for damages
arising out of the use or installation of our products or services, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, litigation
related to environmental matters, product liability litigation (including asbestos-related claims), and litigation related to employee matters and commercial disputes. In certain circumstances, patent
infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in
defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss
exposures. 



 Legislative action by the U.S. Congress could materially, adversely affect us.  



        Legislative action could be taken by the U.S. Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely,
which would adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. However, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of
disregarding our incorporation in Switzerland or limiting our ability as a Swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between Switzerland and the United States, we could be subjected to
increased taxation. Also, various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to U.S. companies that move their
locations abroad. We cannot assure you that such legislation, if enacted, would not apply to us. 

        In
addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the U.S. but are domiciled abroad. We cannot assure you
that we will not be subject to such criticism as a result of our domicile in Switzerland. 



 Changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  



        We operate in regulated industries. Our U.S. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental
agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. Intrastate operations in the United States are subject to regulation by state
regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. We and our employees are subject to various U.S. federal,
state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-U.S. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. Most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the
monitored security services industry and the construction industry. Our ADT Worldwide segment relies heavily upon both wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals, and these
technologies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. Changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt
operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If laws and regulations
changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the United States.  



        The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies
and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in FCPA enforcement
activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice ("DOJ") and the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), increased
enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We
operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with
local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents.
Furthermore, we are subject to investigations by the DOJ and the SEC related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries and agents in recent years in violation of the
FCPA. We have continued to report to
the DOJ and the SEC the remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations and our own internal investigations. In 2005, we informed the DOJ and the SEC that we had retained outside
counsel to perform a Company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to the FCPA. The baseline review, which has been completed, has revealed that some business
practices may not comply with Tyco and FCPA requirements. In February 2010, we initiated discussions with the DOJ and SEC aimed at resolving these matters. Active discussions are ongoing;
however, the timing for ultimately reaching resolution as well as the outcome of this matter remains uncertain. In connection with the resolution of these matters, it is possible that we will be
required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, consent to the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other civil or criminal penalties or adverse impacts, including
being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants or a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows,
business prospects or the market value of our stock. 



 Our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us.  



        Our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. Certain of
the products we manufacture are "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. From time to time,
we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. Our policy mandates strict compliance with U.S. and international trade laws. When we receive
information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities.
Nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate U.S. and/or foreign laws. Such improper actions could subject the
Company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business
prospects. 



 We continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the Separation, primarily those relating to pre-Separation income tax
liabilities.  



        Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement and other agreements entered in connection with the
Separation, subject to certain exceptions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement, we, Covidien and Tyco Electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of
certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. All 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

costs
and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. These contingent and other corporate liabilities
primarily relate to pre-Separation income tax liabilities. Liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies are not allocated. 


        If
any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally
with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations
related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. 



 We are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install, including claims arising from exposure to asbestos. These claims could result in
significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability.  



        We face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. In
addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. We have been named in a significant
number of lawsuits alleging damages based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos through the past distribution of asbestos-containing industrial products. Any insurance we maintain may
not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 


        In
addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. The nature of the services
we provide exposes us to
the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. In an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions
limiting our liability in such circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that these limitations will be enforced. Losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows. 



 Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations.  



        We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other
things: 



•the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials;   
•emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and  
•the health and safety of our employees. 


We
cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise
sanctioned by regulators. 

        Certain
environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties
or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims
due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. 

        We
have received notification from the United States Environmental Protection Agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others
disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



reimburse
the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. We have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing
facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. These projects relate to a variety of activities, including: 



•solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and  
•oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. 


        These
projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. In addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold
by us. 

        The
ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation
of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable
that we would incur remedial costs of approximately $27 million to $85 million as of September 24, 2010. As of September 24, 2010, we concluded that the best estimate
within this range is approximately $34 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $16 million is included in other liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 24, 2010. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future
capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety
laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows. We may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business
activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. 

 Risks Related to Our Liquidity  



 Disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in
the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit.  



        In the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of
indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in the Company's subsidiaries. Although we believe we have sufficient
liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. In 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced
significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. These factors may make it more
difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective
customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. Disruptions in the financial markets have
had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slow down in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. These disruptions may have other
unknown adverse affects. Based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. 

19






<A
NAME="page_ce15601_1_20"> 



































 




Table of Contents 



 Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.  



        Our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. Our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and
sale/leaseback transactions. 

        Although
we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot
provide assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. Upon the occurrence of an event of default
under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to
extend further credit. If the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other
indebtedness. Furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could
have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 



 Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our
outstanding indebtedness.  



        We estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will
be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. However, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar
contingencies could require additional funding. If such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we
need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 


        Such
an outcome could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: 



•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including dividend payments;  
•increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;   
•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate;  
•restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities;   
•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness;
and  
•increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. 


 Risks Relating to Tax Matters  



 We share responsibility for certain of our, Covidien's and Tyco Electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including June 29, 2007.  



        Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, Covidien's and Tyco Electronics' income tax liabilities
that result in cash payments, based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. More specifically, we, Covidien and Tyco Electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%,
respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

to
our, Covidien's and Tyco Electronics' U.S. and certain non-U.S. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or
similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the Separation. Costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax
liabilities will generally be shared equally among the parties. We are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formula. In addition,
Covidien and Tyco Electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formula. In connection with the execution of the Tax Sharing
Agreement, we established receivables from Covidien and Tyco Electronics representing the amount we expected to receive for pre-Separation uncertain tax positions. We also established liabilities
representing the fair market value of our share of their estimated obligations under the Tax Sharing Agreement. As of September 24, 2010, we had recorded $89 million in other assets and
$25 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets representing the receivables from Covidien and Tyco Electronics. We had also recorded $398 million in other liabilities and
$156 million in accrued and other current liabilities representing our estimated obligations to Covidien and Tyco Electronics under the Tax Sharing Agreement. 

        If
any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each
non-defaulting party would
be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. In addition, if another party to the Tax Sharing Agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an
income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional
tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, Covidien's and Tyco Electronics' tax liabilities. 



 Examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.  



        The Company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. In connection with these
examinations, tax authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the Separation. We
are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. Although we expect to resolve a substantial number of the proposed tax adjustments with the IRS, a few significant items are
expected to remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. As of the date hereof, it is unlikely that we will be able to resolve these open items, which primarily involve the
treatment of certain intercompany transactions during the period, through the IRS appeals process. As a result, we may be required to litigate these matters. The calculation of our tax liabilities
involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We recognize potential liabilities and record tax
liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. These tax
liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. We have assessed our obligations under the Tax Sharing
Agreement and determined that the recorded liability is sufficient to cover the indemnifications made by us under such agreement. However, such amount could differ materially from amounts that are
actually determined to be due, and any such difference could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 If the distribution of Covidien and Tyco Electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the Separation are
determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.  



        We have received private letter rulings from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of Covidien
and Tyco Electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free
under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"). The private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of
the Separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the Code. The private letter rulings relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from Tyco,
Covidien and Tyco Electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the IRS could determine
on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not
correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the
distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the Covidien and Tyco Electronics common shares distributed
to our shareholders on June 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax. However, we would incur
significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the Separation should be treated as taxable
transactions. 

 Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation in Switzerland  



 Swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of Tyco's securities.  



        Because of differences between Swiss law and U.S state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of Swiss
companies incorporated in the U.S., it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against Tyco International based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or
state securities laws of the United States in Switzerland. As a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws, U.S. investors may find it
difficult to: 



•effect service within the United States upon Tyco or its directors and officers located outside the United States;  
•enforce judgments obtained against those persons in U.S. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the United States;
and   
•enforce against those persons in Switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments
of U.S. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the U.S. federal or state securities laws. 


        Switzerland
and the United States do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. The recognition and
enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the United States in Switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the Swiss Federal Act on Private International Law. This statute provides in
principle that a judgment rendered by a non-Swiss court may be enforced in Switzerland only if: 



•the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the Swiss Federal Act on Private International Law;  
•the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable;   
•the judgment does not contravene Swiss public policy; 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg15601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law;
and  
•no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in Switzerland, or adjudicated in
Switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in Switzerland. 



 As a result of our change of domicile from Bermuda to Switzerland and the increase in the par value of our shares, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain
aspects of capital management.  



        In connection with our change of domicile from Bermuda to Switzerland, we significantly increased the par value of our shares.
Currently the par value of our shares is CHF 7.16 (or approximately $7.41 based on the exchange rate in effect on November 8, 2010). Under Swiss law, we generally may not issue
registered shares for an amount below par value. As of November 8, 2010 the closing price of our ordinary shares on the NYSE was $39.11. In the event there is a need to raise common equity
capital at a time when the trading price of our registered shares is below our par value, we would need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our registered shares. We
cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval in a timely manner. Obtaining shareholder approval would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC and
convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. If we were to receive shareholder approval to reduce the par value of our registered shares, the reduction would
decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital, which may subject you to Swiss withholding tax.  

<A
NAME="ce15601_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    Item 1B