Item 1A.    Risk Factors  

        You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are
not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions,
geopolitical events and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our
liquidity.

Risks Relating to Actions of Tyco's Former Senior Corporate Management  



 Pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.



        As
a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, Tyco, some members of our former senior corporate management, current and former members of our Board of Directors
and our current Chief Executive Officer, Special Advisor to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and current General Counsel are named defendants in a number of purported class actions alleging
violations of certain disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. Tyco, certain of our current and former employees, some members of our former senior corporate management and some former
members of the Board of Directors of Tyco International (US), Inc. also are named as defendants in several ERISA class actions. In addition, Tyco and some members of our former senior corporate
management are subject to an SEC inquiry, and some members of our former senior corporate management are named as defendants in criminal cases prosecuted by the District Attorney of New York County.
The findings and outcomes of the prosecutions and the SEC civil action may affect the course of the purported securities class actions and ERISA class actions pending against Tyco. We are generally
obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by Bermuda law. In
addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. We are unable at this time to estimate
what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate
amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
At this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. 



 Continued scrutiny resulting from ongoing governmental investigations may have an adverse effect on our business.



        We
and others have received subpoenas and requests from the SEC's Division of Enforcement, the District Attorney of New York County, the United States Department of Labor and others
seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. Certain current and former
employees in Fire and Security received subpoenas from the SEC's Division of Enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices regarding the ADT dealer connect fees. As previously
reported in our periodic filings, these practices have been discontinued. The Department of Labor is investigating Tyco and the administrators of certain of our benefit plans. At this time, we cannot
predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. It is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to
injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government instrumentalities (which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers)
or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot provide assurance that the effects and results of these or other investigations will not be
material and adverse to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

12




 


 Examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the IRS, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.



        Tyco's
and our subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. Tyco is currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for the years
1997 through 2000. In connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the IRS, have raised issues and proposed tax deficiencies. We are reviewing the issues raised by the tax authorities
and are contesting certain of the proposed tax deficiencies. Amounts related to these tax deficiencies and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been
accrued through the income tax provision, equity or adjustments to goodwill, as appropriate. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex
tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and
other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. These tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. We
adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and
circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax
liabilities. 

        In
connection with the IRS audits for the years 1997 through 2000, the Company prepared proposed adjustments to these prior period U.S. federal income tax returns. The proposed
amendments are currently being reviewed by the IRS and if accepted will result in receipt of refunds or credits and a corresponding reduction to our net deferred tax assets and liabilities. The
Company is in the process of preparing proposed amendments to prior period U.S. federal income tax returns for additional periods. The proposed amendments are not expected to have a material adverse
impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 



 Ongoing SEC inquiries may require us to further amend or restate our public disclosures.



        We
are subject to inquiries by the SEC's Division of Enforcement. We cannot provide assurance that the resolution of the Division of Enforcement's inquiries will not necessitate further
amendments or restatements to our previously-filed periodic reports or lead to some enforcement proceedings against Tyco. The SEC's Division of Enforcement has not completed its review of prior
management's actions and our accounting, including the matters covered by the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 30, 2002. 

        During
2005, the Company recorded a charge of $50 million, which represents the Company's best estimate of the amount in fines and penalties management believes the Company will
likely pay to resolve the matters raised in the SEC's investigation. The Company is engaged in discussions with the SEC's Division of Enforcement to resolve the matters raised in the SEC's
investigation. Final resolution of these matters is subject to a number of uncertainties, including finalizing the terms of a settlement that the Enforcement Staff will agree to recommend to the
Commission, the Company's submission of an offer of settlement approved by the Tyco Board of Directors, and the Commission's approval of the settlement offer. Until such events have occurred, the
charge is subject to change. 



 Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding
indebtedness.



        We
estimate that our available cash and our cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. In making this estimate, we
have not assumed the need to make any material payments in connection with our pending litigation or investigations. Any material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from
our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. If such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the
additional 

13




 

funding
that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 

        Such
an outcome could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: 



•require
us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund
working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments;
•increase
our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;
•limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate;
•restrict
our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities;
•make
it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and
•increase
the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. 

 Additional negative publicity may adversely affect our business.  



        As a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, Tyco was the subject of continuing negative publicity focusing on these actions. This
negative publicity contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities in 2002 and brought increased regulatory scrutiny upon us. Additional negative publicity related
to former senior corporate management's actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and the market price of our publicly traded securities. 



 Our senior corporate management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from actions of prior management.



        We
replaced our senior corporate executives with a new team during 2002 through 2004, and all of the former members of our Board of Directors determined not to stand for reelection in
March 2003. A new Board of Directors was elected at our annual general meeting of shareholders in March 2003. We cannot provide assurance that this major restructuring of our Board of
Directors and senior management team, and the accompanying distractions related to matters arising from the actions of prior management will not adversely affect our results of operations. 

Risks Relating to Our Businesses  



 Cyclical industry and economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



        Our
operating results in some of our segments are affected adversely by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which they operate. For example, demand for the products and
services of Fire and Security and Engineered Products and Services is significantly affected by levels of commercial construction and consumer and business discretionary spending. Also, the electronic
components business within Electronics is heavily dependent on the end markets it serves and therefore can be affected by the demand patterns of these markets, which could impact the margins in this
business. This cyclical impact can be amplified because some of our businesses purchase products from other of our businesses. For example, Fire and Security purchases certain products sold by
Engineered Products and Services. Therefore, a drop in demand for our fire prevention products due to lower new 

14




 

residential
or office construction or other factors can cause a drop in demand for certain of our products sold by Engineered Products and Services. 



 Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations.



        We
are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: 



•the
generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials;
•emissions
or discharges of substances into the environment; and
•the
health and safety of our employees. 



There
can be no assurances that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or
otherwise sanctioned by regulators. 

        Certain
environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties
or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims
due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. 

        We
have received notification from the United States Environmental Protection Agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others
disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for
natural resource damages. We have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations.
These projects relate to a variety of activities, including: 



•radioactive
materials decontamination and decommissioning;
•solvent,
metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and
•oil
spill equipment upgrades and replacement. 


        These
projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. In addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold
by us. 

        The
ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation
of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon our experience, current information and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial
costs (including asset retirement obligations) of approximately $284 million, of which $34 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $250 million
is included in other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. While
we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental
protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business
activities. 

15




 



 We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges.  



        Pursuant to GAAP, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired.
Disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization
declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. Future impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In
addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholders' equity, increasing our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio. Such reduction in consolidated
net worth and increase in debt as a percentage of total capitalization could result in a default under our credit facilities. 



 Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results.



        We
are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. See Part II Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

        Our
net revenue derived from sales in non-U.S. markets for 2005 was 50.6% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to
represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Therefore, when the U.S. Dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the Euro, our
U.S. Dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of
operations. Our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. Dollars, our functional currency. 

        We
are a large buyer of steel and resin in the United States. We are also a large buyer of other commodities, including copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. Volatility in the
prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations and cash flows. 

        We
monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations
from these fluctuations. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 



 We are named as a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition.



        In
the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights,
litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs
to recover treble damages. In addition, our Healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur
significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

16




 


 Our Healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition.



        The
United States Food and Drug Administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. Failure to comply with current Good
Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead, and have led, to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls, product shortages or delays
in product manufacturing. Efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to
product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. 



 Our ADT business has generally experienced higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation
and amortization expense.



        Attrition
rates for customers in our Global Electronic Security Services business were 14.8%, 15.1% and 15.9% on a trailing 12-month basis as of September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. Although the attrition rate has been declining, if attrition rates were to trend upward, ADT's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. Tyco amortizes the
costs of ADT's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the ADT dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. Internally generated residential and
commercial account pools are similarly amortized. If the attrition rates were to rise Tyco may be required to accelerate the amortization of the costs which could cause a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 



 Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries.



        Tyco
and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, Asia, Latin America and Europe.
Tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. Nonetheless, we cannot
provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees that would violate U.S. and/or foreign laws,
including the laws governing payments to government officials. These improper actions, however, could subject the Company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well
as disgorgement, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. 

        From
time to time Tyco receives information alleging improper conduct of Tyco employees, agents, and/or distributors, including conduct involving potentially improper payments to foreign
government officials. Tyco's policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, taking remedial control measures and reporting its findings to relevant law
enforcement authorities. 



 Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.  



        Our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of liens. We have synthetic lease facilities with other covenants, including interest coverage and leverage ratios. Our outstanding
indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. 

17




 

        Although
we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we
cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. Upon the occurrence of an event of
default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all
commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities
and our other indebtedness. Acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. See "Liquidity
and Capital Resources—Capitalization". 



 Downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us.  



        Certain downgrades by Moody's and S&P may increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. 


Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation  



 Legislation and negative publicity regarding Bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results.



Legislation Relating to Government Contracts  

        We continue to assess the potential impact of various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to U.S. companies that
move their corporate location abroad. The legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of Tyco International Ltd., a Massachusetts corporation, by ADT Limited (a public company that
had been located in Bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the United Kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which ADT changed its name to Tyco International Ltd. and
became the parent to the Tyco group. 

        In
2003, the State of California adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain Bermuda and other foreign-chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts.
To date Tyco companies have requested waivers which have been granted or are still pending, with certain requests having been denied. However, there is no reliable process for how that waiver
authority will be exercised and how the provision for such waivers will affect Tyco's business. 


        In
addition, the U.S. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to U.S. companies that
move their corporate location abroad. We are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of
regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. 

        Tyco's
revenue related to direct sales to the U.S. federal government and the State of California accounted for less than 2.0% and 0.1%, respectively, of our total net revenue for 2005
and we expect those levels to continue. We are unable to predict, however, whether the final form of the proposed legislation discussed above would also affect Tyco's indirect sales to the U.S.
federal or state governments or the willingness of Tyco's non-governmental customers to do business with us. As a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential
impact on us of any proposed legislation in this area and can provide no assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse. 

18




 


Tax Legislation  

        The United States Congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of U.S. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation
transactions. In October 2004, the United States Congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of Tyco International Ltd. by ADT
Limited. Legislation passed by the U.S. Senate on November 18, 2005 would modify parts of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, but would not retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of
Tyco International Ltd. by ADT Limited. We expect various tax proposals to be introduced in the United States Congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have
adverse effects on Tyco if enacted. Such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely
affecting our business. 

Negative Publicity  

        There is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, U.S. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including Bermuda. As a
Bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the
negative public image of Bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a Bermuda company. 



 Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.



        We
are organized under the laws of Bermuda. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda based on the civil liability provisions
of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our
directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that
the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the
payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in
Bermuda. 

        As
a Bermuda company, Tyco is governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and
shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of
a Bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only
exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. Under Bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not
involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. Thus, holders of Tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a
corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. 

Item 1B