Item 1A. Risk Factors  

        You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are
not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions,
geopolitical events and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our
liquidity.

Risks Relating to the Proposed Separation  




 The cost to complete the transaction could be significant.  



        Management estimates that the income statement charges to complete the Proposed Separation will be $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion, after-tax. However,
actual costs could exceed that estimate and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 



 We may be unable to complete the transaction.  



        There is no guarantee that the Proposed Separation will be finalized. Completion of the Proposed Separation is subject to a number of factors and conditions,
including: 



•changes
in business, political and economic conditions in the U.S. and in other countries in which the Company currently operates;
•changes
in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies;
•changes
in operating performance of the Company;
•required
changes to existing financings, and changes in credit ratings, including those that may result from the Proposed Separation;
•the
Company's ability to obtain the financing necessary to consummate the Proposed Separation; and
•the
Company's ability to satisfy certain conditions precedent, including final approval by the Tyco Board of Directors, receipt of certain tax rulings, necessary opinions of
counsel and the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the SEC. 

 Increased demands on our management team as a result of the Proposed Separation could distract management's attention from operating the business.  



        Management expects to file Registration Statements in connection with the Proposed Separation during the second quarter of 2007. The complexity of the transaction
will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources, as well as the use of several cross-functional project teams. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected
during the transition period. 



 Each of the independent companies resulting from the completion of the Proposed Separation may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect will be achieved from the separation
transactions.  



        Each of the independent companies may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect will result from the separation of two of Tyco's
segments into independent companies or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. For example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will regard the corporate structures of
each of the independent companies as more clear and simple than the current Tyco corporate structure or place a greater value on the sum of each of the independent companies as compared to Tyco. 

1




 


 If certain internal restructuring transactions and the distribution relating to the Proposed Separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that
are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.  



        We anticipate that certain internal restructuring transactions will be undertaken in preparation for the Proposed Separation. These transactions are complex and
could cause us to incur significant tax liabilities. We have an initial private letter ruling regarding these transactions and the distribution from the IRS noting that they qualify for favorable tax
treatment. We have also requested or may request supplemental rulings regarding these transactions and, in addition, we expect to obtain an opinion of tax counsel confirming the favorable tax
treatment of these transactions. The ruling and the opinion rely or will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings, from us regarding the past and future conduct of our
businesses and other matters. If any of these are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, then we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion and could be subject to
significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the ruling and the opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal restructuring transactions should be treated as taxable
transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or if the distributions should become taxable for other
reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership after the distribution. 


Risks Relating to Actions of Tyco's Former Senior Corporate Management  



 Pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.  



        As a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, Tyco, some members of our former senior corporate management, current and former members
of our Board of Directors and our current Chief Executive Officer, former Chief Financial Officer and current General Counsel are named defendants in a number of purported class actions alleging
violations of certain disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. Tyco, certain of our current and former employees, some members of our former senior corporate management and some former
members of the Board of Directors of Tyco International (US), Inc. also are named as defendants in several ERISA class actions. We are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and
officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by Bermuda law. In addition, our insurance carriers may decline
coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. We are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters
may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse
effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse
resolution of these matters. 



 Continued scrutiny resulting from ongoing governmental investigations may have an adverse effect on our business.  



        We and others have received subpoenas and requests from the SEC, the United States Department of Labor, the General Service Administration and others seeking the
production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. Certain current and former employees in Fire
and Security received subpoenas from the SEC's Division of Enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices regarding the ADT dealer connect fees. As previously reported in our
periodic filings, these practices have been discontinued. The United States Department of Labor is investigating Tyco and the administrators of certain of our benefit plans. At this time, we cannot
predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. It is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to
injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government instrumentalities (which in turn could negatively impact our business 

2




 

with
non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot provide assurance that the effects and results of
these or other investigations will not be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 



 Examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the IRS, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.  



        The Company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. In connection with such examinations, tax authorities,
including the United States IRS, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. We are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. Amounts related to these tax adjustments and
other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. The calculation of our tax
liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We recognize potential liabilities and
record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due.
These tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these
uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. 

        The
IRS continues to audit the 1997 through 2000 years. In 2004 the Company submitted to the IRS proposed adjustments to these prior period U.S. federal income tax returns, resulting in
a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. During 2006, the IRS accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. Also during 2006, the Company developed proposed amendments to U.S.
federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. On the basis of previously accepted amendments, the Company has determined that acceptance of these adjustments is probable and,
accordingly, has recorded them in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Such adjustments did not have a material impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 

        The
Company has yet to complete proposed amendments to its U.S. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which will primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of
the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. When the Company's tax return positions are updated, additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. While
the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, the Company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 



 Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness.  



        We estimate that our available cash and our cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. In
making this estimate, we have not
assumed the need to make any material payments in connection with our pending litigation or investigations. Any material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our
pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. If such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the
additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 


        Such
an outcome could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: 



•require
us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund
working capital, capital 

3




 



expenditures,
research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; 



•increase
our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;
•limit
our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate;
•restrict
our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities;
•make
it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and
•increase
the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. 




 Additional negative publicity may adversely affect our business.  



        As a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, Tyco was the subject of continuing negative publicity focusing on these actions. This
negative publicity contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities in 2002 and brought increased regulatory scrutiny upon us. Additional negative publicity related
to former senior corporate management's actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and the market price of our publicly traded securities. 



 Our senior corporate management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from actions of prior management.  



        We replaced our senior corporate executives with a new team during 2002 through 2004, and all of the former members of our Board of Directors determined not to
stand for reelection in March 2003. A new Board of Directors was elected at our annual general meeting of shareholders in March 2003. We cannot provide assurance that this major
restructuring of our Board of Directors and senior management team, and the accompanying distractions related to matters arising from the actions of prior management will not adversely affect our
results of operations. 

Risks Relating to Our Businesses  



 Cyclical industry and economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  



        Our operating results in some of our segments are affected adversely by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which they operate. For example, demand
for the products and services of Fire and Security and Engineered Products and Services is significantly affected by levels of commercial construction and consumer and business discretionary spending.
Also, the electronic components business within Electronics is heavily dependent on the end markets it serves and therefore can be affected by the demand patterns of these markets, which could impact
the margins in this business. This cyclical impact can be amplified because some of our businesses purchase products from other of
our businesses. For example, Fire and Security purchases certain products sold by Engineered Products and Services. Therefore, a drop in demand for our fire prevention products due to lower new
residential or office construction or other factors can cause a drop in demand for certain of our products sold by Engineered Products and Services. 



 Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations.  



        We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: 



•the
generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials;
•emissions
or discharges of substances into the environment; and 

4




 




•the
health and safety of our employees. 


There
can be no assurances that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or
otherwise sanctioned by regulators. 

        Certain
environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties
or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims
due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. 

        We
have received notification from the United States Environmental Protection Agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others
disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and /or for
natural resource damages. We have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations.
These projects relate to a variety of activities, including: 



•radioactive
materials decontamination and decommissioning;
•solvent,
metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and
•oil
spill equipment upgrades and replacement. 


These
projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. In addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. 


        The
ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation
of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. Based upon our experience, current information and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial
costs (including asset retirement obligations of $111 million) of approximately $295 million, of which $34 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities
and $261 million is included in other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more
stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or
future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely
affect our financial condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or
future business activities. 



 We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges.  



        Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other
long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. Disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating
results of reporting units, divestitures, the Proposed Separation plan and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. Future impairment
charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholders' equity, increasing our
debt-to-total-capitalization ratio. Such reduction in consolidated net worth and increase in debt as a percentage of total capitalization could result in a default under our
credit facilities. 

5




 


 Foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results.  



        We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. See
Part II Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

        Our
net revenue derived from sales in non-U.S. markets for 2006 was 51.2% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to
represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Therefore, when the U.S. Dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the Euro, our
U.S. Dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of
operations. Our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-U.S. currencies to U.S. Dollars, our functional currency. 

        We
are a large buyer of steel in the United States. We are also a large buyer of other commodities, including resin, copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. Volatility in the prices
of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. We may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and cash flows. 

        We
monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations
from these fluctuations. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 



 We are named as a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  



        In the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of
intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws
permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. In addition, our Healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our
management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or
other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 



 Our Healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition.  



        The United States Food and Drug Administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. Failure to comply
with current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead, and have led, to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls, product
shortages or delays in product manufacturing. Efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products
could lead to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. 

6




 


 Our ADT business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation and
amortization expense.  



        Attrition rates for customers in our Worldwide Electronic Security Services business were 13.8%, 14.8% and 15.1% on a trailing 12-month basis as of
September 29, 2006, September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Although the attrition rate has been declining, if attrition rates were to trend upward, ADT's recurring revenue and
results of operations will be adversely affected. Tyco amortizes the costs of ADT's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the ADT dealer program based on the estimated life of
the customer relationships. Internally generated residential and commercial account pools are similarly amortized. If the attrition rates were to rise Tyco may be required to accelerate the
amortization of the costs which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 



 Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries.  



        Tyco and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, Asia,
India, Latin America and Europe. Tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government
officials. Nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees that would
violate U.S. and/or foreign laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials. Such improper actions could subject the Company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial
monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits or other monies, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. 

        From
time to time Tyco obtains or receives information alleging improper conduct of Tyco employees, agents, and/or distributors, including conduct involving potentially improper payments
to foreign government officials. Tyco's policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, taking remedial control measures and reporting its findings to
relevant law enforcement authorities. 



 Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.  



        Our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of liens. Our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and
sale/leaseback transactions. 

        Although
we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we
cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. Upon the occurrence of an event of
default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all
commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities
and our other indebtedness. Acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. See "Liquidity
and Capital Resources—Capitalization". 

7




 



 Downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us.  



        Certain downgrades by Moody's and S&P may increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. 



 We have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis.  



        In connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we identified a material
weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes as of September 29, 2006. For a discussion of our
internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see "Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting" (as revised) under Item 9A,
"Controls and Procedures." 

        A
material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. While we have taken measures
to strengthen our internal controls in response to the identified material weakness related to certain aspects of accounting for income taxes, additional work remains to be done to address the
identified material weakness. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows or maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and
procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, including a delisting from the New York Stock Exchange, securities
litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. 

Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation  



 Legislation and negative publicity regarding Bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results.  



Legislation Relating to Government Contracts  

        We continue to assess the potential impact of various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to U.S. companies that
move their corporate location abroad. The legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of Tyco International Ltd., a Massachusetts corporation, by ADT Limited (a public company that
had been located in Bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the United Kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which ADT changed its name to Tyco International Ltd. and
became the parent to the Tyco group. 

        In
addition, the U.S. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to U.S. companies that
move their corporate location abroad. We are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of
regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the financial impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. 


Tax Legislation  

        The United States Congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of U.S. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation
transactions. In October 2004, the United States Congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of Tyco International Ltd. by ADT
Limited. Legislation passed by the U.S. Senate on 

8




 


November 18,
2005 would modify parts of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, but would not retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of Tyco International Ltd. by ADT Limited. We expect
various U.S. Treasury Department studies to be released and tax proposals to be introduced in the United States Congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have
adverse effects on Tyco if enacted. Such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely
affecting our business. 

Negative Publicity  

        There is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, U.S. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including Bermuda. As a
Bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the
negative public image of Bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a Bermuda company. 



 Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.  



        We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda based on the
civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts
obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws.
We have been advised that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore,
a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not
automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. 

        As
a Bermuda company, Tyco is governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and
shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of
a Bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only
exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. Under Bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not
involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. Thus, holders of Tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a
corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. 


Item 1B