— Risk Factors below.Financial Information About SegmentsAlthough we describe our business in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in terms of the various services we provide, the markets in which our clients operate, and the geographic areas in which we operate, we have concluded that our operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment pursuant to those accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”).  In making this determination, we considered the various economic characteristics of our operations, including: the nature of the services we provide, the nature of our internal processes for delivering and distributing those services, and the types of customers we have.  In addition to the discussion that follows, please refer to Note 14 — Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.There is a high degree of similarity among the workforces employed across the categories of services we provide.  For example, professionals in engineering and design services (i.e., services provided by persons who are degreed, and in certain circumstances licensed, such as engineers, architects, scientists, and economists) exist in all four service categories.  In addition, there is a high degree of similarity among a significant component of the workforces we employ to perform construction and operations and maintenance ("O&M") projects.  In providing construction and O&M services, we employ a large number of skilled craft labor personnel.  These may include welders, pipe fitters, electricians, crane operators, and other personnel who work on very large capital projects (in the case of projects classified within the construction services category) or on smaller capital projects (in the case of maintenance projects classified within the O&M services category).All of our offices use a matrix organizational structure.  Our results, therefore, are dependent on groups representing technical disciplines (e.g., electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, cost engineering, etc.) supporting project management personnel (who maintain the relationship between our clients and us and are ultimately responsible for delivering projects to our clients safely, on time, and on budget).  Additionally, all of our operating regions use common tools, policies, and procedures to manage and run their respective units.  These include project review meetings, project performance evaluations, and project execution plans.    Each of the Company's operating regions provides most of the services the Company offers generally, and each of our operating regions includes in its customer base many of the same or similar clients as our other regions.The use of technology throughout our organization is highly uniform.  Whether it is computer-aided design and drafting (“CADD”) applications used by our engineering and design staff, or modeling programs used by the scientific and consulting staff, or scheduling, estimating, and cost control applications used by home-office personnel in support of our construction and maintenance activities, all of the service categories described above are equally affected by changes in technology as they occur in the economy at large.Furthermore, the types of information and internal reports used by the Company’s chief operating decision maker (the “CODM”), who is also the Company’s chief executive officer, and other members of management to monitor performance, evaluate results of operations, allocate resources, and otherwise manage the business support a single reportable segment.  Accordingly, based on these similarities, we have concluded that our operations may be aggregated into one reportable segment for purposes of the disclosures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Page 8Table of ContentsServices ProvidedAs described above, the services we provide generally fall into the following four broad categories: Project Services; Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services; Construction services; and Operations and Maintenance services.    The following table sets forth our revenues from each of our four service categories for each of the last five fiscal years (in thousands):  2013 2012 2011 2010 2009Project Services $5,977,917 $5,693,419 $5,070,575 $4,224,898 $4,644,043Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting 705,694 772,031 815,561 888,405 894,446Construction 3,825,878 3,145,311 3,060,820 3,722,101 4,763,640Operations and Maintenance (“O&M”) 1,308,887 1,283,017 1,434,708 1,080,113 1,165,247  $11,818,376 $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517 $11,467,376Project ServicesWe employ the engineering, architecture, interiors, design, planning, and related disciplines necessary to design and engineer modern process plants, buildings, infrastructure projects, technology and manufacturing facilities, consumer products manufacturing facilities, power plants and stations, pulp and paper plants, and other facilities.We are capable of providing our clients with a variety of value engineering services, including "safety in design".  Through safety in design we integrate best practices, hazard analysis, and risk assessment methods early in the design phase of projects, taking those steps necessary to eliminate or mitigate injury and damage during the construction, start-up, testing and commissioning, and operations phases of a project.In the area of construction management, we provide our clients with a wide range of services as an agent for our clients.  We may act as program director, whereby we oversee, on the owner's behalf, the complete planning, design, and construction phases of the project.  Alternatively, our services may be limited to providing construction consulting. Project Services also includes planning, scheduling, procurement, estimating, cost engineering, project accounting, quality and safety, and all other key support services needed for complete cradle-to-grave project delivery.Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting ServicesWe employ the professional and technical skills and expertise with respect to a broad range of consulting services, including: performing pricing studies, market analyses, and financial projections necessary in determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing, designing, and executing biocontainment strategies; developing and performing process protocols with respect to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration-mandated qualification and validation requirements; and performing geological and metallurgical studies.Also included in this service category are revenues relating to defense and aerospace-related programs.  Such services typically are more technical and scientific in nature than other project services we provide, and may involve such tasks as supporting the development and testing of conventional weapons systems; weapons modeling and simulations; computer systems development, maintenance, and support; evaluation and testing of mission-critical control systems; aerospace, testing, and propulsion systems and facilities; and other highly technical or scientific tasks.Construction ServicesIn addition to the construction management services included under Project Services above, we provide traditional field construction services to private and public sector clients.  We also provide our clients with a modular construction option.  Our modular construction includes the engineering and construction of a facility in an off-site fabrication and assembly environment, with final completion during the field erection phase.  The option provides our clients with an alternative approach to traditional methods of engineering and construction, which can compress and shorten the construction schedule, reduce risk, lower costs, and provide environmental benefits.  In the area of environmental remediation and restoration, we also provide environmental remedial construction services for a variety of public and private sector clients.Page 9Table of ContentsHistorically, our field construction activities have been focused primarily on those construction projects for which we perform much of the related engineering and design work.  By focusing our construction efforts in this way, we minimize the risks associated with constructing complex projects based on designs prepared by third parties.  The financial risk to us of constructing complex assets based on designs prepared by third parties may be particularly significant on fixed-price contracts; therefore, we generally avoid this type of project.  However, we will pursue construction-only projects when we can negotiate pricing and other contract terms we deem acceptable and which we believe can result in a fair return for the degree of risk we assume.Operations and Maintenance ("O&M") ServicesO&M refers to all of the tasks required to operate and maintain large, complex facilities on behalf of clients.  We provide key management and support services over all aspects of the operations of a facility, including managing subcontractors and other on-site personnel.  O&M also includes process plant maintenance services, which generally involves all tasks required to keep a process plant (typically a refinery or chemical plant) in day-to-day operation. Within the aerospace and defense areas, O&M often requires us to provide the management and technical support services necessary to operate and maintain such sites as engine test facilities, weapons integration facilities, and high-tech simulation and verification centers.  Such O&M contracts also frequently require us to provide facilities management and maintenance services; utilities operations and maintenance services; property management and disposition services; and construction support services.Within the environmental area, O&M often includes engineering and technical support services as well as program management services necessary to remediate contaminated sites.Although the gross profit margins we realize from O&M services are generally lower than those associated with the other services we provide, the costs to support maintenance activities are also generally lower.  Also, O&M services offer us an opportunity for long-term relationships with clients.  This aspect of O&M services greatly reduces the selling costs in respect of such services.Page 10Table of ContentsThe Industries and Markets in Which Our Clients OperateWe market our services to clients where the scope of work required by their capital projects and programs is within our expertise.  Within each market, we may offer specialty services unique to the sector, or services which differentiate us from our competitors in the marketplace.The following table sets forth our revenues from each of the various industry groups and markets in which our clients operate for each of the last five fiscal years (in thousands):   2013 2012 2011 2010 2009Chemicals and Polymers 2,391,144 1,704,723 1,461,125 1,203,373 1,210,027Refining – Downstream 2,337,387 2,379,750 2,256,092 2,876,059 3,850,734National Government Programs 2,284,533 2,272,611 2,313,240 2,314,548 2,148,688Infrastructure 1,015,864 1,085,649 1,219,633 938,978 933,519Oil & Gas – Upstream 915,478 790,546 753,471 559,492 895,284Buildings 738,404 843,938 893,528 869,248 793,041Mining & Minerals 712,320 550,134 449,194 26,161 136,851Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology 523,490 576,303 404,687 589,795 875,007Industrial and Other 899,756 690,124 630,694 537,863 624,225  $11,818,376 $10,893,778 $10,381,664 $9,915,517 $11,467,376Chemicals and PolymersOur clients in this sector rely on our extensive knowledge of and experience with feedstock synthesis, chemical synthesis, and polymerization, including advanced polymerization reactors and state-of-the-art, post-reactor processing techniques to help bring new products and new facilities to market quickly and economically.  We apply best practices on capital and maintenance work by leveraging resources within our alliances and partnerships.  Specialty services we provide to our clients in these industries include project finance structuring consulting, market analysis, facility appraisal, and procurement with global inspection capabilities.An important capability we offer our clients in the chemicals business is in the area of field services.  We have contracts with major chemical producers worldwide to provide construction, on-site maintenance, and turnaround activities.  Many of these contracts are evergreen in nature, with relationships extending over many years due to our focus on safety, value, and client satisfaction and lead us to numerous formal alliances.Refining - DownstreamOur typical refining projects for global clients include new design and construction, revamps or expansions of existing plants, turnarounds, upgrades of individual process units within refineries, and long-term maintenance services.  We also provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology evaluations, project finance structuring and support, and multi-client subscription services. Our modular construction capabilities, asset management/maintenance services, and formal client alliances help differentiate us to customers operating in this industry.  Using modular construction decreases congestion at the construction site and provides enhanced safety, cost, and project execution benefits in remote locations.We also include power generation projects within our clients' refining and processing facilities, such as simple and combined cycle power projects, industrial gas turbines, and emergency power generation stations.  In addition, we offer support in the procurement and commissioning of equipment.National Government ProgramsWe categorize our National Government Programs as generally relating to aerospace and defense programs or environmental programs for government entities.Aerospace and Defense ProgramsWe provide an in-depth range of science, engineering, construction and technical support services to the aerospace and defense industry.  Long-term clients include the Ministry of Defence in the U.K., NASA, the DoD, the U.S. Special Operations Page 11Table of ContentsCommand ("USSOCOM"), and the Australian Department of Defence.  Specific to NASA is our ability to design, build, operate, and maintain highly complex facilities relating to space systems, including test and evaluation facilities, launch facilities, and support infrastructure. Our experience in the defense sector includes military systems acquisition management and strategic planning; operations and maintenance of test facilities and ranges; test and evaluation services in computer, laboratory, facility, and range environments; test facility computer systems instrumentation and diagnostics; and test facility design and build.  We also provide systems engineering and integration of complex weapons and space systems, as well as hardware and software design of complex flight and ground systems.We have provided advanced technology engineering services to the DoD for more than 50 years, and currently support major defense programs in the U.S. and internationally.  We operate and maintain several DoD test centers and provide services and assist in the acquisition and development of systems and equipment for Special Operations Forces, as well as the development of biological, chemical, and nuclear detection and protection systems.We maintain enterprise information systems for government and commercial clients worldwide, ranging from the operation of complex computational networks to the development and validation of specific software applications.  We also support the DoD in a number of information technology programs, including network design, integration, and support; command and control technology; development and maintenance of databases and customized applications; and security solutions.Environmental ProgramsWe provide environmental investigation, permitting, restoration, remediation, engineering, and site operations services to a number of European, North American, and Middle Eastern government agencies.  Our projects include hazardous and nuclear waste management and site cleanup and closure; the preparation of feasibility studies and environmental investigations; environmental design; and remediation services on several national programs, as well as compliance with various national environmental policies.Additionally, we support our clients in such areas as pollution prevention assessments; underground storage tank removal; contaminated soil and water remediation, monitoring and systems cleanup; long-term water quality management plans; and air quality planning and permitting.  Much of this type of work is in support of large infrastructure projects that are underway in both Europe and in North America.As a differentiating aspect of our support to our government clients, we provide asset management services in the form of long-term infrastructure operations and maintenance.  Asset management also includes building closures that involve deactivation, decommissioning, and demolition of government facilities.  This is an integral part of our services for the DoE.InfrastructureThe strengths we offer our clients in this industry group include expertise in transportation, transit, aviation, water and wastewater, and civil construction projects throughout North America, Europe, India, the Middle East, and Asia.  Representative clients include national government departments and agencies in the U.S. and the U.K.; state departments of transportation within the U.S.; other regional and local agencies; and private industry freight transport firms. Transportation development/rehabilitation is a core competency of our infrastructure business.  Typical projects include highways, bridges, transit, tunnels, airports, railroads, intermodal facilities, and maritime or port projects where our interdisciplinary teams work independently or as an extension of the client's staff.  Providing alternative financing methods has proven successful in Europe where there is privatization of public infrastructure systems.In water infrastructure, we help public and private sector clients develop or rehabilitate critical water resource systems.  Emerging economies are investing heavily in water and wastewater systems, while governments in North America and Europe are addressing the challenges of drought and aging infrastructure.  We also develop water/wastewater conveyance systems and water flood defense projects. Oil & Gas - UpstreamAs international oil companies develop reserves and try to maximize their existing resources, our expertise in a range of production methods, combined with our commitment to safety and strength in project management, helps us deliver a wide range of projects for oil and gas operators.Page 12Table of ContentsIn the exploration and production market, our projects range from oil recovery through steam injection to gas treating, gas gathering, and gas storage projects including extraction of commercially valuable elements of the gas stream, utilizing new technologies such as Steam-Assisted Gravity Drainage ("SAGD"). Typical projects for our clients in this sector involve the design and construction of projects that recover oil and gas, and include oil thermal recovery facilities either by in-situ means or oil sands mining, upgraders, pipelines, gas plants, and CO2 flood.  These are typically large projects that may involve many of our offices and often include work-share with our Mumbai, India office as a value-added engineering center to reduce project costs.We also provide substantial maintenance and modification services for aging oil and gas facilities around the world.  In connection with the refining market, we also provide process assessments, facility appraisals, feasibility studies, technology evaluations, project finance structuring consulting services, and other support services.    BuildingsWe have planned, designed, and constructed buildings for a variety of clients and markets for more than 60 years.  We believe our global presence and understanding of contracting and delivery demands keep us in an excellent position to provide professional services worldwide. Our diversified client base encompasses both public and private sectors and relates primarily to institutional, commercial, government and corporate buildings, including projects at many of the world's leading medical and research centers, and universities.  We focus our efforts and resources in areas where capital spending initiatives drive demand, and where changes and advances in technology require innovative, value-adding solutions.  We also provide integrated facility management services (sometimes through joint ventures with third parties) for which we assume responsibility for the ongoing operation and maintenance of entire commercial or industrial complexes on behalf of clients.We have specific capabilities in energy and power, master planning, and commissioning for office headquarters, aviation facilities, mission-critical facilities, municipal and civic buildings, courts and correctional facilities, mixed-use and commercial centers, healthcare and education campuses, and recreation complexes. Advanced technology clients require highly specialized buildings in the fields of medical research, nano science, biotechnology, and laser sciences.  We offer total integrated design and construction management solutions to these projects, many of which are world leaders in their functions. Our acquisition of design firm KlingStubbins reinforces our commitment to our clients in this industry group, expanding our capabilities to clients in the pharma-bio, data center, government intelligence, corporate headquarters/interiors, and science and technology-based education markets around the globe.Our government building projects include large, multi-year programs in the U.S. and Europe. U.S. government agencies we serve include the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"); the General Services Administration ("GSA"); the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"); the U.S. Departments of State, Treasury, Agriculture, Homeland Security, and Defense; and the Army National Guard, among others.  In the U.K., we are leading the Custodial Services' project management delivery program to upgrade the U.K. prison stock and also certain security-led programs such as upgrading works to the Palace of Westminster and some regional police authorities.We are providing services to the DoD on military family housing; quality of life projects; training, maintenance, and readiness facilities; and command and control centers, as well as military facilities supporting the DoD's global re-basing program, the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure ("BRAC") program.Mining and MineralsOur mining and minerals business targets the non-ferrous and ferrous metal markets, precious metals, energy minerals (uranium, coal, oil sands), and industrial and fertilizer minerals (mineral sands, borates, trona, phosphates and potash).  We work with many of the resources companies undertaking new and existing facility upgrades and process plant developments.  We offer project management; front-end studies; and full engineering, procurement, construction, and management ("EPCM") capabilities; completions, commissioning and start-up services specializing in new plant construction, brownfield expansions, and sustaining capital and maintenance projects.For our mining and mineral clients, we provide the industry proprietary sulfuric acid production technology through our Chemetics® product - an important synergistic by-product of the smelting process and a key consumable in mines Page 13Table of Contentsemploying ore leaching technology.  We are also able to deliver value to our mining clients by providing distinctive adjacent capabilities such as infrastructure and major equipment and materials to support their mining operations.By focusing on mitigating our clients' resource risk, we are able to address challenges of tight labor markets by providing a reliable and familiar labor pool for their ongoing projects.  We host local offices in the most active mining geographies (South America, Australia, Canada, India, and South Africa), and can thereby effectively help our clients improve their project delivery and resource availability.Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology We provide our pharmaceuticals and biotechnology clients single-point consulting, engineering, procurement, construction management, and validation ("EPCMV") project delivery, enabling us to execute the industry's largest capital programs on a single-responsibility basis.  Typical projects in this sector include laboratories, research and development facilities, pilot plants, bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient production facilities, full-scale biotechnology production facilities, and secondary manufacturing facilities.As companies in this industry continue to experience pressure to decrease product time-to-market, reduce costs, and increase return on investment, the types of services we provide have grown over the years to include modular construction, as well as consulting and strategic planning to help our clients complete capital projects faster and more efficiently.Regulatory compliance, state-of-the-art technology, and increased efficiencies are critical issues to our clients in these industries.  We have expertise in containment, barrier technology, locally controlled environments, building systems automation, and off-the-site design and fabrication of facility modules; in addition to vaccine production and purification, and aseptic processing.Industrial and OtherWe provide a broad range of services to our clients operating in the power; pulp and paper; high-technology manufacturing; and food, beverage, and consumer products industries and markets.PowerGlobal energy demand is expected to grow by nearly 50 percent over the next 25 years, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Significant capital spend in the power business is being driven by plant obsolescence and the need for utilities to comply with regulatory requirements and changes in environmental legislation.  Our typical projects include simple and combined cycle power projects, cogeneration power plants, asset lifetime extension projects, and emergency power generation stations.  In addition to traditional engineering, we offer services in procurement and commissioning of equipment, as well as construction services for the power market including thermal, biomass, renewables, and nuclear energy facilities.Pulp and PaperThe pulp and paper industry has been consolidating for many years, and several of our traditional pulp and paper clients have emerged as major consumer product companies.  These clients have created new opportunities for us in non-traditional areas, such as wall board plants and facilities that manufacture diapers and feminine care products.  Typical projects range from small mill projects to complex, multi-million-dollar paper machine rebuilds, mill expansions, and the construction of new facilities.Pulp and paper projects encompass many areas of a mill, and our expertise also includes the converting and packaging of paper products for distribution and consumer use.  Our pulp and paper capability extends through our offices in the U.S., U.K., France, Spain, Italy, and Mexico to clients worldwide.  A significant portion of our work consists of assisting our clients in their compliance with environmental regulations and standards that affect the pulp and paper industry.  We monitor all key environmental regulations affecting our clients and offer compliance studies, permitting support, design of pollution control systems, and compliance services regarding air pollutant standards and hazardous air pollutant emission limits from industrial boilers.High-Technology ManufacturingWe provide our core services for a variety of high tech manufacturing and test facilities, particularly for clients in the automotive and industrial industries.  Typical automotive projects range from conceptual design and feasibility studies to complete design-build programs of aero-acoustic wind tunnels, engine test facilities, acoustic enclosures, transmission test stands; powertrain, environmental, emissions, altitude, and electromagnetic compatibility test facilities; in-line and end-of-line Page 14Table of Contentscomponent test stands; and computer-based measurement and control systems.  We also serve advanced technology and research facilities, including facilities supporting research in fusion and fission energy, nanoscale materials, and high-powered lasers and X-rays to support important research activities in the U.S., Europe, and the U.K. In addition, we perform projects for clients operating in the semiconductor industry.  Projects in the semiconductor industry are typically more complex than many other commercial facilities, requiring a greater emphasis on cleanroom and similar high-end technologies.  Our projects range from on-site plant engineering and tool hookups to multi-million dollar state-of-the-art wafer fabrication and crystal growing facilities used to produce solar energy cells, microprocessors for computers, and other consumer electronic devices.Food, Beverage, and Consumer Products As a provider to the food, beverage, and consumer products supply chain, our global presence and capabilities allow us to help our clients with targeted expansion and new investments.  Our food processing services include hygienic design, clean-in-place ("CIP") systems, heat transfer systems, material handling of liquids and solids, refrigeration, and compliance with government requirements.  From facility design to raw materials processing to converting, packaging, and distribution, our vast depth of expertise helps our clients do just that.  Our knowledge of food and beverage processing results in plants that are productive, efficient, and economical.BacklogBacklog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us.  With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract.  For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods.  In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client.  In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts.  Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings.Our backlog includes expected revenues for contracts that are based on estimates.  For information regarding our backlog including those risk factors specific to backlog, please refer to  — Risk Factors.  In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination.When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a client’s plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs.  On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs.  The following table sets forth the approximate amount of such pass-through costs included in revenues for each of the last five fiscal years (in millions of dollars): 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009$2,624.8 $2,328.4 $2,118.5 $2,723.3 $4,017.0Cost-Reimbursable ContractsCost-reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit.  The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark-up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark-up and a fee.  The fee element can also take several forms.  The fee may be a fixed amount; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract.  In general, we prefer cost-reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price.Fixed-Price ContractsFixed-price contracts include both “lump sum bid” contracts and “negotiated fixed-price” contracts.  Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes.  This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period.  Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model.  Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract.  In contrast, under a negotiated fixed-price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client.  Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project.  Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us.  However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts.  Over the past five years, most of our fixed-price work has been either negotiated fixed-price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for project services, rather than turn-key construction.CompetitionFor information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to .    RISK FACTORSWe operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected and could affect us in the future.  We may also be affected by unknown risks or risks that we currently think are immaterial.  If any such events actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Construction and maintenance sites are inherently dangerous workplaces.  If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we can be exposed to significant financial losses as well as civil and criminal liabilities.Construction and maintenance sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, chemical and manufacturing processes, and highly regulated materials.  On many sites we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures.  If we fail to implement such procedures or if the procedures we implement are ineffective, our employees and others may become injured.  Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, our projects can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials, which, if improperly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities.  We are also subject to regulations dealing with occupational health and safety.  Although we maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective health, safety, and environmental (“HSE”) work procedures throughout our organization, including construction sites and maintenance sites, the failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to liability.Our safety record is critical to our reputation.  Many of our clients require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to bid for contracts and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures.  As a result, our failure to maintain adequate safety standards could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our project execution activities may result in liability for faulty engineering services. Our failure to make judgments and recommendations in accordance with applicable professional standards could result in large damages. Our engineering practice, for example, involves professional judgments regarding the planning, design, development, construction, operations and management of industrial facilities and public infrastructure projects. While we do not generally accept liability for consequential damages, and although we have adopted a range of insurance, risk management and risk avoidance programs designed to reduce potential liabilities, a catastrophic event at one of our project sites or completed projects resulting from the services we have performed could result in significant professional or product liability, warranty or other claims against us as well as reputational harm, especially if public safety is impacted. These liabilities could exceed our insurance limits or the fees we generate, or could impact our ability to obtain insurance in the future. In addition, clients or subcontractors who have agreed to indemnify us against any such liabilities or losses might refuse or be unable to pay us. An uninsured claim, either in part or in whole, if successful and of a material magnitude, could have a substantial impact on our operations.The outcome of pending and future claims and litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We are a party to litigation in the normal course of business.  Since we engage in engineering and construction activities for large facilities and projects where design, construction or systems failures can result in substantial injury or damage to employees or others, we are exposed to substantial claims and litigation if there is a failure at any such project.  Such claims could relate to, among other things, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage, pollution, and environmental damage and be brought by our clients or third parties, such as those who use or reside near our clients’ projects.  We can also be exposed to claims if we agreed that a project will achieve certain performance standards or satisfy certain technical requirements and those standards or requirements are not met.  In many of our contracts with clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we agree to retain or assume potential liabilities for damages, penalties, losses, and other exposures relating to projects that could result in claims that greatly exceed the anticipated profits relating to those contracts.  In addition, while clients and subcontractors may agree to indemnify us against certain liabilities, such third parties may refuse or be unable to pay us.Page 18Table of ContentsWe maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations.  Our insurance programs have varying coverage limits and maximums, and insurance companies may seek to deny claims we might make.  In addition, we have elected to retain a portion of losses that may occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under these programs.  As a result, we may be subject to future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured.  Our insurers are also subject to business risk and, as a result, one or more of them may be unable to fulfill their insurance obligations due to insolvency or otherwise. In addition, the nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors, and vendors presenting claims to us for, among other things, recovery of costs related to certain projects.  Similarly, we occasionally present change orders and other claims to our clients, subcontractors, and vendors.  If we fail to document properly the nature of our claims and change orders or are otherwise unsuccessful in negotiating reasonable settlements with our clients, subcontractors, and vendors, we could incur cost overruns, reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for a project.  A failure to promptly recover on these types of claims could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial results.  Additionally, irrespective of how well we document the nature of our claims and change orders, the cost to prosecute and defend claims and change orders can be significant. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings can and do occur.  Pending or future claims against us could result in professional liability, product liability, criminal liability, warranty obligations, and other liabilities which, to the extent we are not insured against a loss or our insurer fails to provide coverage, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We bear the risk of cost overruns in fixed-price contracts.  We may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates.For fiscal 2013, approximately 15.0% of our revenues were earned under contracts that were fixed-price in nature.  For these contracts, we bear the risk of paying some, if not all, of any cost overruns.  Fixed-price contract amounts are established in part on cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, prices and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies.  If these estimates prove inaccurate, there are errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications, or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of raw materials, or our vendors’ or subcontractors’ inability to perform, then cost overruns may occur and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project.  If the project is significant, or there are one or more issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our vulnerability to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our clients operate is exacerbated during economic downturns or time of political uncertainty.We provide technical, professional, construction, and O&M services to clients operating in a number of markets including oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; programs for various national governments, including the U.S. federal government; chemicals and polymers; mining and minerals; pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; infrastructure; buildings; power; and other, general industrial and consumer businesses and markets (such as technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; and food and consumer products).  These markets and the resulting demand for our services have been, and we expect will continue to be, cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic conditions and changes in client spending, particularly during periods of economic or political uncertainty.Current global economic and political conditions have negatively impacted many of our clients’ ability and willingness to fund their projects.  They have also caused our clients to reduce their capital expenditures, alter the mix of services purchased, seek more favorable price and other contract terms, and otherwise slow their spending on our services.  For example, in the public sector, declines in state tax revenues as well as other economic declines may result in lower state and local government spending.  In addition, due to these conditions many of our competitors may be more inclined to take greater or unusual risks or accept terms and conditions in contracts that we might not deem acceptable.  These conditions have reduced the demand for our services, which has had a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations.Current economic conditions also make it extremely difficult for our clients, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to continue to slow spending on our services.  We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our clients’ markets.  In addition, our business has traditionally lagged recoveries in the general economy and, therefore, may not Page 19Table of Contentsrecover as quickly as the economy at large.  A continuation or worsening of current weak economic conditions or a reduction in government spending could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Regardless of economic or market conditions, investment decisions by our customers may vary by location or as a result of other factors like the availability of labor or relative construction cost.  Because we are dependent on the timing and funding of new awards, we are therefore vulnerable to changes in our clients’ markets and investment decisions.  As a result, our past results have varied and may continue to vary depending upon the demand for future projects in the markets and the locations in which we operate.Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our customers’ investment decisions and therefore subject us to risks of cancellation, delays in existing work, or changes in the timing and funding of new awards.Commodity prices can affect our customers in a number of ways.  For example, for those customers that produce commodity products such as oil, gas, copper, or fertilizers, fluctuations in price can have a direct effect on their profitability and cash flow and, therefore, their willingness to continue to invest or make new capital investments.  To the extent commodity prices decline and our customers defer new investments or cancel or delay existing projects, the demand for our services decreases, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Commodity prices can also strongly affect the costs of projects.  Rising commodity prices can negatively impact the potential returns on investments that are planned, as well as those in progress, and result in customers deferring new investments or canceling or delaying existing projects.  Cancellations and delays have affected our past results and may continue to do so in significant and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel.The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to hire, retain, and utilize qualified personnel, including engineers, architects, designers, craft personnel, and corporate management professionals who have the required experience and expertise.  From time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients.  In certain geographic areas, for example, we may not be able to satisfy the demand for our services because of our inability to successfully hire and retain qualified personnel.In addition, as some of our key personnel approach retirement age, we need to have appropriate succession plans in place and to successfully implement such plans.  If we cannot attract and retain qualified personnel or effectively implement appropriate succession plans, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability.  For example, the uncertainty of contract award timing can present difficulties in matching our workforce size with our contracts.  If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancy of facilities that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions, and results of operations.Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance.Contracts with the U.S. federal government and other governments and their agencies, which are a significant source of our revenue and profit, are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions, and regulations including oversight audits by various government authorities as well as cost controls.  Government contracts are also exposed to uncertainties associated with funding such as sequestration.  Contracts with the U.S. federal government, for example, are subject to the uncertainties of Congressional funding.  Governments are typically under no obligation to maintain funding at any specific level, and funds for government programs may even be eliminated. As a result, our government clients may reduce the scope or terminate our contracts for convenience or decide not to renew our contracts with little or no prior notice.  Since government contracts represent a significant percentage of our revenues (for example, those with the U.S. federal government represented approximately 19.9% of our total revenue in fiscal 2013), a significant reduction in government funding or the loss of such contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Page 20Table of ContentsMost government contracts are awarded through a rigorous competitive process.  The U.S. federal government has increasingly relied upon multiple-year contacts with multiple contractors that generally require those contractors to engage in an additional competitive bidding process for each task order issued under a contract.  This process may result in us facing significant additional pricing pressure and uncertainty and incurring additional costs.  Moreover, we may not be awarded government contracts because of existing policies designed to protect small businesses and under-represented minorities.  Our inability to win new contracts or be awarded work under existing contracts could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.In addition, government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio-economic requirements, which affects how we transact business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations.  For example, for contracts with the U.S. federal government, we must comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Cost Accounting Standards, the Service Contract Act, and numerous regulations governing, environmental protection, and employment practices.  Government contracts also contain terms that expose us to heightened levels of risk and potential liability than non-government contracts.  This includes, for example, unlimited indemnification obligations.We also are subject to government audits, investigations, and proceedings.  For example, government agencies such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency routinely review and audit us to determine the adequacy of and our compliance with our internal control systems and policies and whether allowable costs are in accordance with applicable regulations.  These audits can result in a determination that a rule or regulation has been violated or that adjustments are necessary to the amount of contract costs we believe are reimbursable by the agencies and the amount of our overhead costs allocated to the agencies.If we violate a rule or regulation, fail to comply with a contractual or other requirement or do not satisfy an audit, a variety of penalties can be imposed including monetary damages and criminal and civil penalties.  In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed.  For example, in so-called "qui tam" actions brought by individuals or the government under the U.S. Federal False Claims Act or under similar state and local laws, treble damages can be awarded.  The occurrence of any of these actions could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Many of our federal government contracts require us to have security clearances, which can be difficult and time consuming to obtain.  If our employees are unable to obtain or retain the necessary securities clearances, our clients could terminate or not renew existing contracts or award us new contracts.  To the extent this occurs, our operations and results of operations could be negatively impacted.The contracts in our backlog may be adjusted, cancelled or suspended by our clients and, therefore, our backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings.  Additionally, even if fully performed, our backlog is not a good indicator of our future gross margins.As of the end of fiscal 2013, our backlog totaled approximately $17.2 billion.  There is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized as revenues in the amounts reported or, if realized, will result in profits.  In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client.  In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts.  The revenue for certain contracts included in backlog are based on estimates.  Projects can remain in backlog for extended periods of time because of the nature of the project and the timing of the particular services required by the project.  The risk of contracts in backlog being cancelled or suspended generally increases during periods of wide-spread economic slowdowns.Additionally, the way we perform on our individual contracts can affect greatly our gross margins and hence, future profitability.  In some markets, there is a continuing trend towards cost-reimbursable contracts with incentive-fee arrangements.  Typically, our incentive fees are based on such things as achievement of target completion dates or target costs, overall safety performance, overall client satisfaction, and other performance criteria.  If we fail to meet such targets or achieve the expected performance standards, we may receive a lower, or even zero, incentive fee resulting in lower gross margins.  Accordingly, there is no assurance that the contracts in backlog, assuming they produce the revenues currently expected, will generate gross margins at the rates we have realized in the past.Page 21Table of ContentsNegative conditions in the credit and financial markets and delays in receiving client payments could result in liquidity problems.Although we finance much of our operations using cash provided by operations, at times we depend on the availability of credit to grow our business and to help fund business acquisitions.  In addition, some of our clients depend on the availability of credit to help finance their capital projects.  Instability in the credit markets in the U.S. or abroad, could cause the availability of credit to be relatively difficult or expensive to obtain.  This situation could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness, or obtain funding through the issuance of securities or such additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us.  We may also enter into business acquisition agreements that require us to access credit, which if not available at the closing of the acquisition could result in a breach of the acquisition agreement and a resulting claim for damages by the sellers of such business.  In addition, market conditions could negatively impact our clients’ ability to fund their projects and, therefore, utilize our services, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, we are subject to the risk that the counterparties to our credit agreements may go bankrupt if they suffer catastrophic demand on their liquidity that will prevent them from fulfilling their contractual obligations to us.  We also routinely enter into contracts with counterparties including vendors, suppliers, and subcontractors that may be negatively impacted by events in the credit markets.  If those counterparties are unable to perform their obligations to us or our clients, we may be required to provide additional services or make alternate arrangements on less favorable terms with other parties to ensure adequate performance and delivery of services to our clients.  These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, we typically bill our clients for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our clients delaying or failing to pay our invoices.  In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a diminution in our clients’ access to the credit markets.  If one or more clients delays in paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.Furthermore, our cash balances and short-term investments are maintained in accounts held by major banks and financial institutions located primarily in North America, Europe, South America, Australia and Asia.  Some of our accounts hold deposits in amounts that exceed available insurance.  Although none of the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and investments have gone into bankruptcy or forced receivership, or have been seized by their governments, there is a risk that this may occur in the future.  If this were to occur, we would be at risk of not being able to access our cash which may result in a temporary liquidity crisis that could impede our ability to fund operations.Our use of joint ventures and partnerships exposes us to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control.As is common in the industry, we perform certain contracts as a member of joint ventures, partnerships, and similar arrangements.  This situation exposes us to a number of risks, including the risk that our partners may be unable to fulfill their obligations to us or our clients.  Our partners may also be unable or unwilling to provide the required levels of financial support to the partnerships.  If these circumstances occur, we may be required to pay financial penalties or liquidated damages, provide additional services, or make additional investments to ensure adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services.  Under agreements with joint and several liabilities, we could be liable for both our obligations and those of our partners.  These circumstances could also lead to disputes and litigation with our partners or clients, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. We participate in joint ventures and similar arrangements in which we are not the controlling partner.  In these cases, we have limited control over the actions of the joint venture.  These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow.  To the extent the controlling partner makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control problems arise within the joint venture, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The failure by a joint venture partner to comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business and, for government clients, could result in fines, penalties, suspension or even debarment being imposed on us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Page 22Table of ContentsWe are dependent on third parties to complete many of our contracts.Much of the work performed under our contracts is performed by third-party subcontractors we hire.  We also rely on third-party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment and materials used for projects.  If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired.  If we are not able to locate qualified third-party subcontractors or the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a lump-sum or a fixed-price contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts.  If a subcontractor, supplier, or manufacturer fails to provide services, supplies or equipment as required under a contract for any reason, we may be required to source these services, equipment or supplies to other third parties on a delayed basis or on less favorable terms, which could impact contract profitability.  In the current economic environment, third parties may find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to help fund their operations.  The inability to obtain financing could adversely affect a third party’s ability to provide materials, equipment or services which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  In addition, a failure by a third party subcontractor, supplier or manufacturer to comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business and, for government clients, could result in fines, penalties, suspension or even debarment being imposed on us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Maintaining adequate bonding and letter of credit capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win some contracts.In line with industry practice, we are often required to provide performance or payment bonds to our customers.  These bonds indemnify the customer should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract.  If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project.Historically, we have had adequate bonding and letter of credit capacity but, as is typically the case, the issuance of a bond is at the surety’s sole discretion and the issuance of a letter of credit is based on the Company's credit worthiness.  Because of an overall lack of worldwide bonding capacity, we may find it difficult to find sureties who will provide required levels of bonding or such bonding may only be available at significant additional cost.  There can be no assurance that our bonding capacity will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms.  Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new contracts that require such bonding could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Past and future environmental, heath, and safety laws could impose significant additional costs and liabilities.We are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous or waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with the releases of hazardous substances and human health and safety.  These laws and regulations and the risk of attendant litigation can cause significant delays to a project and add significantly to its cost.  Violations of these regulations could subject us and our management to civil and criminal penalties and other liabilities.Various U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations may impose liability for property damage and costs of investigation and cleanup of hazardous or toxic substances on property currently or previously owned by us or arising out of our waste management or environmental remediation activities.  These laws may impose responsibility and liability without regard to knowledge of or causation of the presence of contaminants.  The liability under these laws is joint and several.  We have potential liabilities associated with our past waste management and other activities and with our current and prior ownership of various properties.  The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of unforeseen clean-up obligations at these or other sites could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions.  We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers, and third parties as a result of such exposures. In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other liabilities arising under environmental or safety laws.  A claim, if not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Such laws, regulations and policies are reviewed periodically and any changes could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways.  Such changes could, for example, relax or repeal laws and regulations relating to the environment, which could result in a decline in the demand for our environmental services and, in turn, could negatively impact our revenue.  Our failure to comply with such laws or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Page 23Table of ContentsIn addition, we and many of our clients operate in highly regulated environments, which may require us or our clients to obtain, and to comply with, federal, state, and local government permits and approvals.  Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances.  Failure to obtain or comply with, or the loss or modification of, the conditions of permits or approvals may subject us to penalties or other liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and result of operations.If we fail to comply with federal, state, local or foreign governmental requirements, our business may be adversely affected.We are subject to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that affect our business.  For example, our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders.  Although we have policies and procedures to comply with U.S. and foreign international trade laws, the violation of such laws could subject the Company and its employees to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and therefore, our ability to do business.Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could weaken our ability to win contracts, which could result in reduced revenues and profits.Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation.  Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws, and any other applicable laws or regulations.  For example, we routinely provide services that may be highly sensitive or that relate to critical national security matters; if a security breach were to occur, our ability to procure future government contracts could be severely limited.  The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses.  Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, and suspension or debarment from contracting, which could weaken our ability to win contracts and result in reduced revenues and profits and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws.  We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices.  Despite our training and compliance programs, there is no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from acts committed by our employees or agents.  If we are found to be liable for FCPA or other violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The loss of or a significant reduction in business from one or a few customers could have an adverse impact on us.A few clients have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenue and/or backlog in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years.  For example, in fiscal 2013, 2012, and fiscal 2011, approximately 19.9%, 22.1%, and 24.4%, respectively, of our revenue was earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government.  Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant clients, our clients may unilaterally reduce, delay, or cancel their contracts at any time.  Our loss of or a significant reduction in business from a significant client could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We engage in a highly competitive business.  If we are unable to compete effectively, we could lose market share and our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted.We face intense competition to provide technical, professional, and construction services to clients.  The extent of such competition varies by industry, geographic market, and project type.  For example, with respect to our construction and operations and maintenance services, clients generally award large projects to large contractors, which may give our larger competitors an advantage when bidding for these projects.  Conversely, with respect to our engineering, design, architectural, Page 24Table of Contentsand consulting services, low barriers of entry can result in competition with smaller, newer competitors.  If we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience a loss of market share or reduced profitability or both, which if significant, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our larger competitors for engineering, construction, and maintenance services for process plants include Bechtel, Fluor, Foster Wheeler, KBR, Technip, WorleyParsons, CB&I, and AMEC.  In the area of buildings, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as HDR, HOK, AECOM, and Turner.  In the area of infrastructure, our competitors include several of the competitors previously mentioned as well as URS, Parsons Brinckerhoff, HNTB, Tetra Tech, Parsons, and W.S. Atkins.  In the area of national government programs, our principal competitors include several of the competitors listed above as well as Leidos, CH2M Hill, Weston, Lockheed Martin, and Computer Sciences Corporation.In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in Risk Factors, our international operations are also exposed to additional risks and uncertainties including unfavorable political developments and weak foreign economies.For fiscal 2013, approximately 40.8% of our revenues was earned from clients outside the U.S.  Our business is dependent on the continued success of our international operations, and we expect our international operations to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues.  Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: •Recessions and other economic crises in other regions, such as Europe, or specific foreign economies and the impact on our costs of doing business in those countries;•Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including logistical and communication challenges;•Unexpected changes in foreign government policies and regulatory requirements;•Lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights;•Renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts;•The adoption of new, and the expansion of existing, trade or other restrictions;•Embargoes;•Acts of war, civil unrest, force majeure, and terrorism;•The ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations;•Social, political, and economic instability;•Expropriation of property;•Tax increases;•Limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and•U.S. government policies.The lack of a well-developed legal system in some of these countries may make it difficult to enforce our contractual rights.  In addition, military action or continued unrest, particularly in the Middle East, could impact the supply or pricing of oil, disrupt our operations in the region and elsewhere.  To the extent our international operations are affected by unexpected or adverse economic, political and other conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.We work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees or unanticipated cost. Some of our services are performed in high risk locations, where the country or location is subject to political, social or economic risks, or war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may expend significant efforts and incur substantial security costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these activities, in these locations, we cannot guarantee the safety of our personnel and we may suffer future losses of employees and subcontractors.Foreign exchange risks may affect our ability to realize a profit from certain projects.Our reported financial condition and results of operations are exposed to the effects (both positive and negative) that fluctuating exchange rates have on the process of translating the financial statements of our international operations, which are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, into the U.S. dollar.  While we generally attempt to denominate our contracts in the currencies of our expenditures, we do enter into contracts that expose us to currency risk, particularly to the extent contract revenue is denominated in a currency different than the contract costs.  We attempt to minimize our exposure from currency risks by obtaining escalation provisions for projects in inflationary economies or entering into derivative Page 25Table of Contents(hedging) instruments, when there is currency risk exposure that is not naturally mitigated via our contracts.  These actions, however, may not always eliminate currency risk exposure.  Based on fluctuations in currency, the U.S. dollar value of our backlog may from time to time increase or decrease significantly.  We may also be exposed to limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the financing requirements of our operations in other countries.Our business strategy relies in part on acquisitions to sustain our growth.  Acquisitions of other companies present certain risks and uncertainties.Our business strategy involves growth through, among other things, the acquisition of other companies.  Acquiring companies presents a number of risks, including:•Assumption of liabilities of an acquired business, including liabilities that were unknown at the time the acquisition was negotiated;•Valuation methodologies may not accurately capture the value of the acquired business;•Failure to realize anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements;•Difficulties relating to combining previously separate entities into a single, integrated, and efficient business;•The effects of diverting management’s attention from day-to-day operations to matters involving the integration of acquired companies;•Potentially substantial transaction costs associated with business combinations;•Potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition;•Difficulties relating to assimilating the personnel, services, and systems of an acquired business and to assimilating marketing and other operational capabilities;•Increased burdens on our staff and on our administrative, internal control and operating systems, which may hinder our legal and regulatory compliance activities; and•Difficulties in applying and integrating our system of internal controls to an acquired business.While we often obtain indemnification rights from the sellers of acquired businesses, such rights may be difficult to enforce, the losses may exceed any dedicated escrow funds, and the indemnitors may not have ability to financially support the indemnity. In addition, there is no assurance that we will continue to locate suitable acquisition targets or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us.  Existing cash balances and cash flow from operations, together with borrowing capacity under our credit facilities, may be insufficient to make acquisitions  Credit market conditions may also make it more difficult and costly to finance acquisitions. Acquisitions may also bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different than those we have traditionally experienced.In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could dilute share ownership.One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities.  Accordingly, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-4 on December 7, 2007.  If we issue additional equity securities pursuant to this shelf registration statement or otherwise, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders’ individual ownership percentages in the Company.Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock.Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material negative effect on the price of our common stock, because of a number of factors, including:•Fluctuations in the spending patterns of our government and commercial customers;•The number and significance of projects executed during a quarter;•Unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits;•The timing of resolving change orders, requests for equitable adjustments, and other contract adjustments;•Delays incurred in connection with a project;Page 26Table of Contents•Changes in prices of commodities or other supplies;•Weather conditions that delay work at project sites;•The timing of expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or other corporate initiatives;•Natural disasters or other crises;•Staff levels and utilization rates;•Changes in prices of services offered by our competitors; and•General economic and political conditions.Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions used to prepare our financial statements.In preparing our financial statements, our management is required under U.S. GAAP to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements.  These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include:•Recognition of contract revenue, costs, profit or losses in applying the principles of percentage of completion accounting;•Estimated amounts for expected project losses, warranty costs, contract close-out or other costs;•Recognition of recoveries under contract change orders or claims;•Collectability of billed and unbilled accounts receivable and the need and amount of any allowance for doubtful accounts;•The amount of reserves necessary for self-insured risks;•Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves;•Valuation of assets acquired, and liabilities, goodwill, and intangible assets assumed, in acquisitions;•Valuation of stock-based compensation; and•The determination of liabilities under pension and other post-retirement benefit programs.Our actual business and financial results could differ from our estimates of such results, which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.An impairment charge of goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to test goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach.  As of September 27, 2013, we had $2.0 billion of goodwill, representing 27.8% of our total assets of $7.3 billion.  We have chosen to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill at the end of the third quarter of our fiscal year.  We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value.  These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in a reporting unit’s market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions toward our facilities, and other factors.If the fair value of our reporting units is less than their carrying value, we could be required to record an impairment charge.  The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken.  For a further discussion of goodwill impairment testing, please see Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below.We may be required to contribute additional cash to meet any underfunded benefit obligations associated with retirement and post-retirement benefit plans we manage.We have various employee benefit plan obligations that require us to make contributions to satisfy, over time, our underfunded benefit obligations, which are generally determined by calculating the projected benefit obligations minus the fair value of plan assets.  For example, as of September 27, 2013, and September 28, 2012, our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans were projected to be underfunded by $402.5 million and $463.7 million, respectively.  See Note 6—Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional disclosure.  In the future, our benefit plan obligations may increase or decrease depending on changes in the levels of Page 27Table of Contentsinterest rates, pension plan asset performance and other factors.  If we are required to contribute a significant amount of the deficit for underfunded benefit plans, our cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Rising inflation, interest rates, and/or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services as well as decrease our profit on our existing contracts, in particular with respect to our fixed-price contracts.Rising inflation, interest rates, or construction costs could reduce the demand for our services.  In addition, we bear all of the risk of rising inflation with respect to those contracts that are fixed-price.  Because a significant portion of our revenues are earned from cost-reimbursable type contracts (approximately 85.0% during fiscal 2013), the effects of inflation on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years have been generally minor.  However, if we expand our business into markets and geographic areas where fixed-price and lump-sum work is more prevalent, inflation may have a larger impact on our results of operations in the future.  Therefore, increases in inflation, interest rates or construction costs could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change.Growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations.  For example, there is a growing consensus that new and additional regulations may be enacted concerning, among other things, greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased compliance costs for us and our clients.  Legislation, international protocols, regulation or other restrictions on emissions could also affect our clients, including those who are involved in the exploration, production or refining of fossil fuels.  Such changes could increase the costs of projects for our clients or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services, which would in turn have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  However, these changes could also increase the pace of projects, such as carbon capture or storage projects, that could have a positive impact on our business.  We cannot predict when or whether any of these various proposals may be enacted or what their effect will be on us or on our customers.Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease.We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.  In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  We are regularly under audit by tax authorities.  Although we believe that our tax estimates and tax positions are reasonable, they could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations, and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions.  An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate.We rely heavily on computer, information, and communications technology and related systems in order to properly operate our business.  From time to time, we experience occasional system interruptions and delays.  In the event we are unable to regularly deploy software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take other steps to maintain or improve the efficiency and efficacy of our systems, the operation of such systems could be interrupted or result in the loss, corruption, or release of data.  In addition, our computer and communication systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic security breaches, intentional or inadvertent user misuse or error, or similar events or disruptions.  Any of these or other events could cause interruptions, delays, loss of critical and/or sensitive data or similar effects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, protection of intellectual property, and results of operations, as well as those of our clients.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or that of our clients.Our technology and intellectual property provide us, in many instances, with a competitive advantage.  Although we protect our property through patent registrations, license restrictions, and similar mechanisms, we may not be able to successfully preserve our rights and they could be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or become obsolete.  In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which we operate do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the U.S.  If we are unable to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights or if there are any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, our ability to differentiate our service offerings could be reduced.  In addition, our clients or other third parties may also provide us with their technology and intellectual property.  There is a risk we Page 28Table of Contentsmay not sufficiently protect our or their information from improper use or dissemination and, as a result, could be subject to claims and litigation and resulting liabilities, loss of contracts or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our businesses could be materially and adversely affected by events outside of our control. Extraordinary or force majeure events beyond our control, such as natural or man-made disasters, could negatively impact our ability to operate. As an example, from time to time we face unexpected severe weather conditions which may result in weather-related delays that are not always reimbursable under a fixed-price contract; evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; increased labor and material costs in areas resulting from weather-related damage and subsequent increased demand for labor and materials for repairing and rebuilding; inability to deliver materials, equipment and personnel to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules and loss of productivity. We may remain obligated to perform our services after any such natural or man-made event, unless a force majeure clause or other contractual provision provides us with relief from our contractual obligations. If we are not able to react quickly to such events, or if a high concentration of our projects are in a specific geographic region that suffers from a natural or man-made catastrophe, our operations may be significantly affected, which could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, if we cannot complete our contracts on time, we may be subject to potential liability claims by our clients which may reduce our profits.We are subject to professional standards, duties and statutory obligations on professional reports and opinions we issue, which could subject us to monetary damages.We issue reports and opinions to clients based on our professional engineering expertise as well as our other professional credentials that subject us to professional standards, duties and obligations regulating the performance of our services.  For example, we issue opinions and reports to government clients in connection with securities offerings.  If a client or another third party alleges that our report or opinion is incorrect or it is improperly relied upon and we are held responsible, we could be subject to significant monetary damages.Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change of control.We are a Delaware corporation.  Certain anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware general corporation law impose restrictions on the ability of others to acquire control of us.  In addition, certain provisions of our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover.  For example:•Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;•Only our Board of Directors can fill vacancies on the board;•There are various restrictions on the ability of a shareholder to nominate a director for election; and•Our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares.These types of provisions, as well as our ability to adopt a shareholder rights agreement in the future, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Accordingly, stockholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Item 1B