 of Part I of this Report for additional information concerning RoHS compliance. We are also voluntarily participating in the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and encourage our direct material suppliers representing an aggregate of at least 80% of our consolidated total direct expenditure to do the same. CDP is a global standardized mechanism by which companies report their greenhouse gas emissions to institutional investors. In fact, in 2014, we achieved a position on CDP’s S&P 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index, the S&P 500 Climate Performance Leadership Index, and the CDP Supplier Climate Performance Leadership Index 2014. We continue to invest in the infrastructure and systems required to be able to inventory and measure our carbon footprint on a global basis. We believe we have made significant strides in improving our energy efficiency around the world. In addition, we are committed to the environment through our efforts to improve the energy efficiency of key elements in our high-performance network product offerings. In 2012, we launched a set of carrier-class MPLS switches, the PTX5000 series. In addition to filling the capacity and density requirement for Internet core growth, PTX5000, which featured record energy efficiency of 1.5W per Gigabit of throughput. In 2014, we further enhanced the PTX5000 series and introduced the FPC2 for the PTX5000 MPLS switches, which features energy efficiency of 1.2W per Gigabit of throughput, and we also launched the MPC6 for our MX2020 and MX2010 3D Universal Edge Routers, which uses 2W per Gigabit of full-duplex traffic. The environment will remain a focus area across multiple aspects of our business.  Intellectual Property  Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology and expertise, as well as our ability to obtain and protect necessary intellectual property rights. While we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark law, as well as confidentiality agreements, to protect our technology, we also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology.  In addition, we integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products and, from time to time, we license additional technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. There can be no assurance that third-party licenses will be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  12Table of ContentsAs of December 31, 2014, we had over 2,400 patents worldwide and numerous patent applications are pending. Patents generally have a term of twenty years from filing. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms on the individual patents vary. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued on the patent applications that we have filed, that we will be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property rights, or that other parties will not contest our intellectual property rights. Employees  As of December 31, 2014, we had 8,806 full-time employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, motivate, and retain qualified personnel. We believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. Our future performance depends significantly upon the continued service of our key technical, sales, and senior management personnel, none of whom are bound by an employment agreement requiring service for any defined period of time. The loss of one or more of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Executive Officers of the Registrant  The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of the filing of this Report:Name  Age Position Rami Rahim 44 Chief Executive Officer and DirectorPradeep Sindhu 62 Chief Technical Officer and Vice Chairman of the BoardRobyn M. Denholm 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Operations OfficerJonathan Davidson 41 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Juniper Development   and InnovationVince Molinaro 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Customer OfficerMitchell Gaynor 55 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryTerrance F. Spidell 46 Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer  RAMI RAHIM joined Juniper in January 1997 and became Chief Executive Officer of Juniper, and a member of our Board of Directors, in November 2014. From March 2014, until he became Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rahim served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Juniper Development and Innovation ("JDI"). His responsibilities included driving strategy, development and business growth for routing, switching, security, silicon technology, and the Junos operating system. Previously, Mr. Rahim served Juniper in a number of roles, including Executive Vice President and General Manager of Platform Systems Division for routing and switching, Senior Vice President of the Edge and Aggregation Business Unit (EABU), and Vice President and General Manager of EABU. Prior to that, Mr. Rahim spent the majority of his time at Juniper in the development organization where he helped with the architecture, design and implementation of many Juniper core, edge, and carrier Ethernet products. Mr. Rahim holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Toronto and a Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.PRADEEP SINDHU founded Juniper in February 1996 and served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board until September 1996. Since then, Dr. Sindhu has served as Vice Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer of Juniper. From September 1984 to February 1991, Dr. Sindhu worked as a Member of the Research Staff, from March 1987 to February 1996, as the Principal Scientist, and from February 1994 to February 1996, as Distinguished Engineer at the Computer Science Lab at Xerox Corporation, Palo Alto Research Center, a technology research center. Dr. Sindhu served as a member of the board of directors of Infinera Corporation, a provider of optical networking equipment, from September 2001 to May 2008. ROBYN M. DENHOLM joined Juniper in August 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In July 2013, Ms. Denholm was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Operations Officer. Prior to joining Juniper, Ms. Denholm was at Sun Microsystems, Inc. ("Sun") from January 1996 to August 2007, where she served in executive assignments that included Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategic Planning, Senior Vice President of Finance, Vice President and Corporate Controller (Chief Accounting Officer), Vice President of Finance, Director of Service Division, and Shared Financial Services APAC and Controller, Australia/New Zealand. Prior to joining Sun, Ms. Denholm served at Toyota Motor Corporation Australia for seven years and at Arthur Andersen & Company for five years in various finance assignments. Ms. Denholm is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Australia and holds a Bachelor's degree in Economics from the University of Sydney  13Table of Contentsand a Master's degree in Commerce from the University of New South Wales. In addition, since August 2014, Ms. Denholm has served as a member of the board of directors of Tesla Motors, Inc.JONATHAN DAVIDSON joined Juniper in March 2010 and became Executive Vice President and General Manager of Juniper Development and Innovation ("JDI") in January 2015. From July 2014 until he became Executive Vice President and General Manager of JDI, Mr. Davidson served as Senior Vice President and General Manager for Juniper Networks Security, Switching and Solutions Business Unit. Previously, Mr. Davidson was Juniper’s Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Campus and Data Center Business Unit and Vice President, Product Line Management, where he was responsible for Edge Routing and Aggregation Business product management and strategy. Prior to joining Juniper, Mr. Davidson had a 15-year career at Cisco Systems, Inc., where he served as Director of Product Management and led the enterprise routing product management team and service provider Layer 4 through Layer 7 services team.VINCE MOLINARO joined Juniper in 2009 as Senior Vice President of Sales, and served as Executive Vice President, Sales, Services and Support from July 2013 to February 2014, and currently serves as our Executive Vice President and Chief Customer Officer. Prior to joining Juniper, Mr. Molinaro held senior leadership positions at a number of technology companies including Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies, Alcatel-Lucent and Internap Network Services. He has extensive domestic and international experience having lived and managed large organizations throughout Europe and the U.S. Mr. Molinaro holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biomedical Engineering from Boston University and a Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering from University of Bridgeport. MITCHELL GAYNOR joined Juniper in February 2004 as Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary and served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from February 2008 to February 2011 and is currently our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining Juniper, Mr. Gaynor was Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of Portal Software, Inc., a provider of account management software that was subsequently acquired by Oracle Corporation ("Oracle"), and Sybase, Inc., an enterprise and mobile software company that was subsequently acquired by SAP AG. In private practice, he was an associate with the law firm of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison. Mr. Gaynor holds a Law degree from University of California's Hastings College of the Law and a Bachelor degree in History from the University of California, Berkeley.TERRANCE F. SPIDELL joined Juniper in August 2011 as Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller, and has served as Vice President, Corporate Controller, since November 2012. In 2013, Mr. Spidell assumed the position of Chief Accounting Officer of the Company. Before joining the Company, Mr. Spidell was at VeriSign, Inc., a provider of Internet infrastructure services, as Vice President, Corporate Controller, from June 2009 through July 2011 and as Vice President, Accounting Operations, from March 2008 through June 2009. Prior to VeriSign, Mr. Spidell held various positions, most recently Senior Manager, at PricewaterhouseCoopers, a registered public accounting firm, from November 1993 through March 2008. Mr. Spidell is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a Bachelor in Business Administration, with degrees in Finance and Accounting, from Boise State University. Available Information  We file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the SEC electronically. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Juniper Networks that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.  You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on our website at http://www.juniper.net, by contacting our Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices by calling 1-408-936-5396, or by sending an e-mail message to investorrelations@juniper.net. Such reports and other information are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Standards, the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Stock Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as well as our Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website. Information on our website is not, and will not be deemed, a part of this Report or incorporated into any other filings the Company makes with the SEC.  14Table of ContentsItem 1A. Risk FactorsFactors That May Affect Future ResultsInvestments in our securities involve significant risks. Even small changes in investor expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or operating results, changes in the mix of the products and services sold, acquisitions, industry changes, or other factors, could trigger, and have triggered in the past, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including, but not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our business, operating results and stock price.Our quarterly results are unpredictable and subject to substantial fluctuations; as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate.The factors that may cause our quarterly results to vary quarter by quarter and be unpredictable include, but are not limited to: limited visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of products and services sold, changes in the mix of geographies in which our products and services are sold, changing market and economic conditions, current and potential customer consolidation, competition, customer concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, unpredictable ordering patterns, changes in the amount and frequency of share repurchases or dividends, regional economic and political conditions, and seasonality. For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter. Furthermore market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, seasonal rebates, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.As a result of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good indication of what our future performance will be. It is likely that in some quarters, our operating results will be below our guidance, our long-term financial model or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock may decline. Such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance.A limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate. Any decrease in revenues from our customers or partners could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results.A substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners, particularly in our service provider market. Changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased) of our key customers could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, Vodafone’s acquisition of Spanish cable operator, Ono, Numericable’s purchase of SFR, France’s second-largest telecommunications operator, the acquisition of TW Telecom by Level 3 Communications, AT&T’s proposed acquisition of DirectTV, and Comcast’s proposed acquisition of Time Warner Cable) and that consolidation trend has continued. If our customers or partners are parties to consolidation transactions they may delay, suspend or indefinitely reduce or cancel their purchases of our products or other direct or indirect unforeseen consequences could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Fluctuating economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues and gross margin for a particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in costs of production may harm our operating results.Our revenues and gross margin depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings. Such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast sales and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate  15Table of Contentsforecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses. In addition, economic uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on global economic conditions, which has led, and could continue to lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production. For example, if the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen against other currencies such as the Euro, our revenues reported in U.S. dollars would decline. In addition, for U.S. dollar denominated sales, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar would increase the real cost to customers of our products in markets outside the U.S., which could impact our competitive position. More generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments. Furthermore, instability in the global credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services. Our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in the short and medium term. Therefore, fluctuations in revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margins from quarter to quarter.Uncertainty about future economic conditions also makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Future or continued economic weakness, failure of our customers and markets to recover from such weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance and expansion could result in price concessions in certain markets or have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business through rapidly fluctuating economic and market conditions, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial and operating results.Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.In periods of market expansion, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our investment in R&D, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. Conversely, in 2014, to refocus the Company’s strategy, optimize its structure and improve operational efficiencies in connection with our integrated operating plan, or IOP, we implemented a new strategic focus, realigned our organization into a One-Juniper structure, reduced our workforce, consolidated and closed facilities, made changes to enhance efficiency, improved cost management measures and instituted new capital allocation plan. In connection with cost management, we implemented a substantial cost reduction plan accomplished through various restructuring activities across research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to the underperformance of our Security reporting unit and product rationalizations. Further strategy-related pivots could lead to delays in achieving revenue and profit forecasts and result in additional impairment. Some of our expenses are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees. Rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.The long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter.A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process. As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy. In particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders. Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products. Customers  16Table of Contentswith large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis. These long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, both of which may be exacerbated by the impact of continued global economic weakness, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter.We face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial results.Competition is intense in the markets that we serve. The network equipment market has historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade, Hewlett Packard Company, and Huawei. In the security market, we face intense competition from these same companies as well as companies such as Check Point, F5 Networks, Fortinet, and Palo Alto Networks. Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.In addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and/or resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as, customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all. For example, in recent years, Oracle acquired Acme Packet, Inc., and Cisco acquired Meraki Networks, Inc. and Sourcefire, Inc., which further consolidated our market. A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do. If we are unable to compete successfully against existing and future competitors on the basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share and revenues and/or be required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins, and which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our partners and resellers generally sell or resell competing products on a non-exclusive basis and consolidation could delay spending or require us to increase discounts to compete, which could also adversely affect our business.We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time, and the level of product gross margins achieved by us in recent years may not be sustainable.We expect our product gross margins to vary from quarter-to-quarter, and the gross margins we have achieved in recent years may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including customer, product and geographic mix shifts, increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in material, labor, or inventory carrying costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if we do not accurately forecast product demand, warranty related issues, or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. For example, in the third quarter of 2012, our margins declined as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. We determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.Further, in early 2014, we announced our IOP, which in combination with our new cost reduction initiative, announced in October 2014, is intended to reduce our operating expenses and to focus on cost controls. We expect that our margins will, accordingly, vary with our ability to achieve the goals of the IOP as supplemented by the new cost reduction initiative, as well as our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.To the extent we receive product orders late in a quarter, we may be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our quarterly revenues.Generally, our network equipment products are not stocked by distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and the custom nature of configurations required by our customers; we generally build such products as orders are received. In recent years, the volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter has generally stabilized but remains unpredictable. If orders for certain products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenue for these orders in the same period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our expected revenues for such quarter. Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term. As a result, a failure or delay in generating or recognizing revenue could cause significant variations in our operating results and operating margin from quarter-to-quarter. 17Table of ContentsConversion of key internal systems and processes, particularly our ERP system, and problems with the design or implementation of these systems and processes could interfere with, and therefore harm, our business and operations.We have underway a multi-phase project to convert certain key internal systems and processes, including our customer relationship management (“CRM”) system and enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system. Since 2012, we have been implementing major changes to our ERP system, which activities we expect to continue into 2015. In the third quarter of 2014, we implemented the manufacturing, fulfillment, and inventory portion of this ERP project and we are now reliant upon dual ERP systems until completion of the conversion. The next major change to our ERP program is projected for the third quarter of 2015, when we plan to eliminate the dual ERP System. A delay past this time could result in postponement of this systems change until the first quarter of 2016. We have invested, and will continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in the design and implementation of these systems and processes. Any problems, disruptions, delays or other issues in the design and implementation of the new systems or processes, particularly any that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, collect cash from our customers, maintain our DSO measure, fulfill contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a timely and accurate manner, recognize revenue, file SEC reports in a timely manner, or otherwise run our business. Even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, as noted above, the design and implementation of these new systems and processes may be much more costly than we anticipated and in the event of lengthy project delays, we may experience issues with retention of the implementation team. If we are unable to successfully design and implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the implementation of these systems and processes is more lengthy or costly than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted.We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.We rely on single or limited sources of certain of our components. During periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited. Any future spike in growth in our business, or more likely in IT spending and the economy in general is likely to create greater short-term pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately forecast overall component demand and to establish optimal component inventories. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. For example, from time to time, we have experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of product shipments. We currently purchase numerous key components, including ASICs, from single or limited sources. The development of alternate sources for those components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly. In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory. In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner. If we are unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver products and services to our customers, which would seriously affect present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management. Failure to effectively manage the supply of key components and products would adversely affect our business. We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, and NSN. The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to our resellers or distributors could materially reduce our revenues. For example, in 2011 and 2012, one of our OEM partners, Dell, acquired Force10 and SonicWall, both competitors of ours. As a result, Dell became increasingly competitive in certain areas, their resale of our products declined, and we ultimately terminated our OEM relationship with Dell. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing  18Table of Contentsvalue-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a sell-through model using information provided by our distributors. If those distributors provide us with inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted.Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel. As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage. We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios. These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.System security risks, data protection breaches, and cyber-attacks could compromise our proprietary information, disrupt our internal operations and harm public perception of our products, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and adversely affect our stock price. In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Increasingly, companies, including us, are subject to a wide variety of attacks on their networks on an ongoing basis. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to penetration or attacks by computer programmers and hackers, or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns and exploiting security vulnerabilities of our products, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen, which could subject us to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, and cause us reputational and financial harm. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks.If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Because the techniques used by computer programmers and hackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques. This could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. In addition, the economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the programmer or hacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint.Regulation of industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects.We are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas. For example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet specified indigenous certification criteria, even though those criteria may be in conflict with accepted international standards. Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include country of origin regulations. These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (“DRC”) and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals.” These minerals are present in our products. SEC rules implementing these requirements may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply DRC “conflict free” components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our operations. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the "conflict minerals” used in our products. 19Table of ContentsIn addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. These laws and regulations include the European Union (EU) Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS). The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials such as lead, mercury, and cadmium in the manufacture of electrical equipment, including our products. Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements. However, it is possible that certain exemptions may be revoked in the future, including an exemption for lead in network infrastructure equipment upon which we and our competitors rely, and which is currently scheduled to expire in July 2016. Revocation of this exemption or further changes to this or other laws or passage of new similar laws in other jurisdictions, may require us to cease selling non-compliant products in the EU or reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations. This reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics and result in an adverse impact on our operating results. Additionally, EU and China have adopted the WEEE directive, which requires producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life, as well as REACH regulations, which regulate handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products.The traditional telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the Internet telecommunications industry. Currently, there are few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on IP networks, but future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the Internet and Internet service provider access charges. We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies. Regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products designed to enable a wide range of such services or business models. For instance, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission is considering new regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks through proposals regarding net neutrality and government regulation of the Internet. These regulations and regulations resulting from these proposals might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and as such, providers' needs for Internet telecommunications equipment and services. Also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment.The adoption and implementation of such regulations could reduce demand for our products, increase the cost of building and selling our products, result in product inventory write-offs, impact our ability to ship products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner and require us to spend significant time and expense to comply, and we could face fines and civil or criminal sanctions or claims if we were to violate or become liable under such regulations. Any of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products or affecting products containing encryption capabilities could negatively affect our revenues.The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the import or export of, among other things, encryption technology. Certain of our products contain or use encryption technology. In addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring certification, notifications, review of source code, or the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. For example, Russia and China recently have implemented new requirements relating to products containing encryption and India has imposed special warranty and other obligations associated with technology deemed critical. Governmental regulation of encryption or IP networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or export sanctions, including recent restrictions on exports to Russia, could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues. In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation, penalties, costs, and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects.Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties. If our systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business processes and our ability to build and ship products could be impacted, and our financial results could be harmed.Some of our business processes depend upon our information technology ("IT") systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces of our systems with the systems of third parties. For example, our order entry system feeds information into the  20Table of Contentssystems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. If those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. This could negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed. For example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late December of 2006 disrupted our communications with China, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs. In addition, as discussed earlier in this "Risk Factors" section, beginning in 2012 and continuing into 2015, we have been implementing major changes to our enterprise resource planning system. Any failure of the new system or interruptions during the transition may impair communications with our manufacturers, and, therefore, adversely affect our ability to build and ship our products. We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed. For example, we have experienced instances where our contract manufacturers were not able to ship products in the time periods expected by us, which prevented us from meeting our commitments to our customers. If we are not able to ship our products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be affected and our financial results could be harmed.Telecommunications and Cloud service provider companies and our other large customers generally require onerous terms and conditions in our contracts with them. As we seek to sell more products to such customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues.Telecommunications and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers. For example, our customers, France Telecom-Orange and Deutsche Telekom AG have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers. As we seek to sell more products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms.In addition, service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers. As a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products. These additional requests and penalties, if we are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not successfully anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, and develop products and product enhancements that meet those technological shifts, needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer.We cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all. For example, the move from traditional network infrastructures towards software-defined networking, or SDN, has been receiving considerable attention. In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SDN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements to meet those requirements in a timely manner, it could cause us to lose customers, and such failure could substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which would significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance.In addition, in the past two years, we have announced new products, including the QF5100, T4000 Core Router, EX9200 Ethernet Switch, MX Series Routers, PTX 3000 Packet Transport Router, and Juniper Networks Contrail. If these or other new products do not gain market acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position and our business and financial results. 21Table of ContentsOur ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.We are a party to lawsuits, investigations, proceedings, and other disputes, which are costly to defend and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay fines or damages, undertake remedial measures or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.We, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our Board of Directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits. We have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws. As noted in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report, under the heading of “Legal Proceedings”, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) are conducting investigations into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in a number of countries. The investigations relate to whether the Company or any third party on behalf of the Company gave money, or anything else of value to any government official in violation of the FCPA. The Company’s Audit Committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, has been investigating and conducting a thorough review of possible violations of the FCPA, and has made recommendations for remedial measures, including employee disciplinary actions in foreign jurisdictions, which the Company has implemented and continues to implement. Litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain. We therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations. In connection with any government investigations, including those in which we are currently involved as described above, if the government takes action against us or we agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and incur other sanctions, which may be material, and suffer reputational harm. The lawsuits and investigations are expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations. The unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.We are a party to litigation and claims regarding intellectual property rights, resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing.Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to our products. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation may include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, partners, or customers, alleging that our products or services infringe proprietary rights. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require us to develop non-infringing technologies, enter into license agreements, or cease engaging in certain activities or offering certain products or services. Furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third-party is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives.We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually and on an interim basis if an event occurs or there is a change in circumstance that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets below their carrying values. As of December 31, 2014, our goodwill was $2,981.5 million and there were no intangible assets with indefinite lives. When the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, a charge to operations is recorded. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recognized. Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. 22Table of ContentsIn the fourth quarter of 2014, we rationalized our Security product portfolio, including developing a new product roadmap and exiting certain point products, including our Junos® Pulse product. These factors decreased our short-term and near-term revenue and profitability forecasts for our Security reporting unit. During our fiscal year 2014 annual goodwill impairment test, the carrying value of our Security reporting unit's goodwill exceeded its fair value, resulting in a goodwill impairment charge of $850.0 million.In recent years, economic weakness has contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. Declines in our level of revenues due to restructuring or cost reductions or declines in our operating margins, as well as sustained declines in our stock price, increase the risk that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives may become impaired in future periods.Our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets, and our stock price. If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. However, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results.Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by the following: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the research and development (“R&D”) tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD"), an international association of 34 countries including the U.S., is contemplating changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These contemplated changes, if finalized and adopted by countries, will increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which would harm our business.We provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. For example, in the third quarter of 2012, our gross margins were reduced as a result of an inventory charge resulting from inventory we held in excess of forecasted demand. Conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time, and because our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we did in the third quarter of 2010 with respect to certain components, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products, which could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues.We are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships.We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which includes failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be  23Table of Contentsdelayed. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. Moreover, an increasing portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may face difficulties enforcing our proprietary rights which could adversely affect our ability to compete.We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents or that any of our patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us or protect our technology, any of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings and other competitive harm. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success.We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We derive a majority of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and VARs in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the United States. In addition, a portion of our R&D and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the United States. In some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection.As a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following:•changes in general IT spending,•the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection;•changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; •varying and potentially conflicting regulations;•fluctuations in local economies;•wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; and •the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the United States or in other countries in which we operate. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationship,  24Table of Contentsfinancial reporting problems, fines, and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.Because a majority of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.The majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in U.S. Dollars. We also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Euro, Indian Rupee, and Japanese Yen related to our sales and service operations outside of the United States. An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S. Dollars, and a weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.Currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The hedging activities undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. However, such attempts to offset the impact of currency fluctuations are costly and no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances, including long-term declines in the value of the U.S. Dollar. If our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the U.S. Dollar persist, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.Integration of acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership of our stockholders.We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business. For example, in 2014, we acquired WANDL, Inc. and in 2012, we acquired Contrail Systems Inc. ("Contrail") and Mykonos Software, Inc. ("Mykonos"). Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and liabilities, diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions if we fail to successfully manage and operate the acquired business. If we fail in any acquisition integration efforts and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources practices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.In connection with certain acquisitions, we may agree to issue common stock or assume equity awards that dilute the ownership of our current stockholders, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, assume liabilities, record goodwill and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.The divestiture of our Junos Pulse product portfolio could disrupt our business and may not yield the intended benefits.We recently completed the sale of our Junos Pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of Siris Capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $105.7 million was in cash, net of a $19.3 million working capital adjustment, and $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest bearing promissory note issued to the Company. Since approximately $125.0 million of the transaction consideration is in the form of an 18-month non-contingent seller promissory note, there is also the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us by the buyer under the note and that instead the Junos Pulse assets will return to us. If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected.Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an effective planning and management process. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our  25Table of Contentsreporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future. If we fail to effectively implement improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected.Our products are highly technical and if they contain undetected defects errors or malware or do not meet customer quality expectations, our business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to additional costs or lawsuits or be required to pay damages in connection with any alleged or actual failure of our products and services.Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information. Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers. Any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention. If our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected.If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our business.Our products are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors. Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved. Our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements. If we find errors in the existing software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’ networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could be costly and could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled. This could hurt our operating results, damage our reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects.Our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected.We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us, if possible, to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We sell our products to customers that use those products to build networks and IP infrastructure, and if the demand for network and IP systems does not continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services. As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks. During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those  26Table of Contentsnetworks and the selection of the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure. Such delays in purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from such customers can cause fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and any adverse results from such evaluation may adversely affect investor perception, our stock price and cause us to incur additional expense.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. We have and will continue to incur significant expenses and devote management resources to Section 404 compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected if our financial statements are not reliable and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition.Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.The major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.We may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations, including the Senior Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility.In February 2014, we issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.50% senior unsecured notes due 2024 (the “2024 Notes”) and in March 2011, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes (the “Senior Notes” and together with the 2024 Notes, the “Notes”), and (see discussion in Note 10, Long-Term Debt and Financing, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report). As of December 31, 2014, we had $1,349.0 million in outstanding long-term debt. In June 2014, we entered into a Credit Agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five year $500.0 million unsecured Revolving Credit Facility, with an option to increase the credit facility, up to a maximum of $700.0 million. The Credit Agreement will terminate in June 2019, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid. As of December 31, 2014, no amounts were outstanding under the Credit Agreement.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon) or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon). However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Notes) or obtain additional financing. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all.The indentures that govern the Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:•incur liens;•incur sale and leaseback transactions; and•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. 27Table of ContentsThe Credit Agreement contains two financial covenants along with customary affirmative and negative covenants that include the following:• maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the Senior Notes, any notes issued in connection with the recently-announced capital return program discussed above and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).Our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders or the failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.In October 2014, we announced a cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock payable on December 23, 2014 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 2, 2014. Our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements and other factors. Any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.In addition, our Board of Directors recently authorized a $1.1 billion increase to our current capital return plan, which includes a planned $1.5 billion of share repurchases before the end of the second quarter of 2015. The capital return plan will be funded by a combination of onshore cash, previously issued debt and potentially, additional debt financing, to preserve our financial flexibility to invest in future growth opportunities and maintain our investment grade credit rating. Any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our shareholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.The investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.At December 31, 2014, we had $1,639.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,465.3 million in short- and long-term investments. We have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, government- sponsored enterprise obligations, money market funds, mutual funds, publicly-traded equity securities, time deposits and U.S. government securities. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.Uninsured losses could harm our operating results.We self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 28Table of ContentsITEM 1B