Item 1A of
    Part I, “Risk Factors” for more information.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Direct
    Sales Structure


 


    Where we have a direct relationship with our customers, the
    terms and conditions are governed either by customer purchase
    orders and our acknowledgement of those orders or by purchase
    contracts. In instances where we have direct contracts with our
    customers, those contracts set forth only general terms of sale
    and do not require customers to purchase specified quantities of
    our products. For this type of customer our sales team engages
    directly with the customer. Customer purchase orders are
    received, and processed directly, by Juniper Networks.


 



    Channel
    Sales Structure


 


    A critical part of our sales and marketing efforts are our
    channel partners through which we do the majority of our
    business. We employ various channel partners:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A global network of strategic distribution relationships, as
    well as region or country-specific distributors who in turn sell
    to local value added resellers who sell to the end-user
    customer. The distribution channel partners mainly sell our SLT
    products plus some router products that are often purchased by
    our enterprise customers. These distributors tend to be focused
    on particular regions or particular countries within regions.
    For example, we have substantial distribution relationships with
    Ingram Micro in the Americas and with NEC in Japan. Our
    agreements with these distributors are generally non-exclusive,
    limited by region, and provide product discounts and other
    ordinary terms of sale. These agreements do not require our
    distributors to purchase specified quantities of our products.




 



     
        • 

    
    Direct value-added resellers including our strategic resellers
    referenced below, which resell our products to end-users around
    the world. These direct value-added resellers buy the products
    and services directly from us and have expertise in deploying
    complex networking solutions in their respective markets. Our
    agreements with these direct value-added resellers are generally
    non-exclusive, limited by region, and provide product discounts
    and other ordinary terms of sale. These agreements do not
    require our direct value-added resellers to purchase specified
    quantities of our products.




 



     
        • 

    
    Strategic world-wide reseller relationships with Nokia-Siemens
    Networks B.V. (“NSN”), Ericsson Telekom A.B. and
    Alcatel-Lucent. These companies each offer services and products
    that complement, but in some cases compete with, our own product
    offerings and act as a fulfillment partner for our products. Our
    arrangements with each of these partners allow them to resell
    our products on a worldwide, non-exclusive basis, provide for
    discounts based upon the volume of products sold and specify
    other general terms of sale. The agreements do not require these
    partners to purchase specified quantities of our products. NSN
    accounted for greater than 10% of our total net revenues in 2007.





 


    Within each region we employ sales professionals to assist with
    the management of our various sales channels. In addition we
    have a “direct touch” sales team that works directly
    with the channel partners on key accounts in order to maintain a
    direct relationship with our more strategic end user customers
    while at the same time supporting the ultimate fulfillment of
    product through our channel partners.


 


    Our sales organization is generally split between service
    provider and enterprise customers, with each separate team
    ensuring focus on the key customers in these respective markets.
    There is a structure of sales professionals, system engineers,
    and marketing and channel teams each focused on the respective
    service provider and enterprise markets.


 



    Backlog


 


    Our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders under
    framework agreements with our customers. At any given time, we
    have orders for products that have not been shipped and for
    services that have not yet been performed for various reasons.
    Because we believe industry practice would allow customers to
    cancel or change orders with limited advance notice prior to
    shipment or performance, as well as our history of allowing such
    changes and cancellations, we do not consider this backlog to be
    firm and do not believe our backlog information is necessarily
    indicative of future revenue.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Seasonality


 


    Many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal
    fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the
    first and third quarters. In addition, our SLT segment has
    experienced seasonally strong customer demand in the fourth
    quarter. This historical pattern should not be considered a
    reliable indicator of our future net revenues or financial
    performance.


 



    Competition


 



    Infrastructure
    Business


 


    In the network infrastructure business, Cisco Systems has
    historically been the dominant player in the market. However,
    other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Extreme
    Networks, Inc., Foundry Networks, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co.,
    Ltd., and Nortel Networks Corporation, are providing competitive
    products in the marketplace.


 


    Many of our current and potential competitors, such as Cisco,
    Alcatel-Lucent, Huawei and Nortel have significantly broader
    product lines than we do and may bundle their products with
    other networking products in a manner that may discourage
    customers from purchasing our products. In addition,
    consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition of our
    partners and resellers by competitors, can increase the
    competitive pressure faced by us. For example, in 2006 Alcatel
    combined with Lucent Technologies, Inc. and Ericsson acquired
    Redback Networks. Also, many of our current and potential
    competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive
    customer bases that could be leveraged. Increased competition
    could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced
    gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could
    seriously harm our operating results.


 



    SLT
    Business


 


    In the market for SLT products, Cisco generally is our primary
    competitor with its broad range of products. In addition, there
    are a number of other competitors for each of the product lines
    within SLT, including Checkpoint Software Technologies,
    Fortinet, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., Nortel and Riverbed
    Technology, Inc. These additional competitors tend to be focused
    on single product line solutions and therefore are generally
    specialized and focused as competitors to our products. In
    addition, a number of public and private companies have
    announced plans for new products to address the same needs that
    our products address. We believe that our ability to compete
    with Cisco and others depends upon our ability to demonstrate
    that our products are superior in meeting the needs of our
    current and potential customers.


 


    For both product groups we expect that, over time, large
    companies with significant resources, technical expertise,
    market experience, customer relationships and broad product
    lines, such as Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, Huawei and Nortel, will
    introduce new products which are designed to compete more
    effectively in the market. There are also several other
    companies that claim to have products with greater capabilities
    than our products. Consolidation in this industry has begun,
    with one or more of these companies being acquired by large,
    established suppliers of network infrastructure products, and we
    believe it is likely to continue.


 


    As a result, we expect to face increased competition in the
    future from larger companies with significantly more resources
    than we have. Although we believe that our technology and the
    purpose-built features of our products make them unique and will
    enable us to compete effectively with these companies, we cannot
    guarantee that we will be successful.


 



    Environment


 


    We are subject to regulations that have been adopted with
    respect to environmental matters, such as the Waste Electrical
    and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and Restriction of
    the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and
    Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) regulations adopted by
    the European Union. In addition, in September 2007, we announced
    our sponsorship and continued participation in the Carbon
    Disclosure Project (“CDP”). CDP is a global
    standardized mechanism by which companies report their
    greenhouse gas emissions to institutional investors; it hosts
    one of the largest registries of corporate greenhouse gas data
    in the world at www.cdproject.net. We continue to invest in the
    infrastructure and systems required to be able to inventory and



    
    13



Table of Contents




    measure our carbon footprint on a global basis. Since 2005, we
    have made significant strides in improving our energy efficiency
    around the world.


 


    Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted
    for the protection of the environment has to date had no
    material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or
    competitive position.


 


    In addition, we are committed to the environment by our effort
    in improving the energy efficiency of key elements of our
    high-performance network product offerings. For example, our
    T1600 router consumes substantially less energy than competitive
    products. The environment will remain a focus area across
    multiple aspects of our business.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent
    upon our internally developed technology and know-how. Our
    operating systems were developed internally and are protected by
    United States and other copyright laws.


 


    While we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark
    law to protect our technology, we also believe that factors such
    as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new
    product developments, frequent product enhancements and reliable
    product maintenance are essential to establishing and
    maintaining a technology leadership position. There can be no
    assurance that others will not develop technologies that are
    similar or superior to our technology.


 


    In addition, we integrate licensed third-party technology into
    certain of our products. From time to time, we may be required
    to license additional technology from third parties to develop
    new products or product enhancements. There can be no assurance
    that third-party licenses will be available or continue to be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our inability
    to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in
    our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses
    necessary to develop new products and product enhancements could
    require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or
    performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could
    harm our business, financial condition, and results of
    operations.


 


    Our success will depend upon our ability to obtain necessary
    intellectual property rights and protect our intellectual
    property rights. We cannot be certain that patents will be
    issued on the patent applications that we have filed, or that we
    will be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property
    rights or that other parties will not contest our intellectual
    property rights.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2007, we had 5,879 full-time
    employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we
    consider our relations with our employees to be good.
    Competition for personnel in our industry is intense. We believe
    that our future success depends in part on our continued ability
    to hire, motivate and retain qualified personnel. We believe
    that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees,
    but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful
    in the future.


 


    Our future performance depends in significant part upon the
    continued service of our key technical, sales and senior
    management personnel, none of whom is bound by an employment
    agreement requiring service for any defined period of time. The
    loss of the services of one or more of our key employees could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. Our future success also
    depends on our continuing ability to attract, train and retain
    highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel.
    Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no
    assurance that we can retain our key personnel in the future.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following sets forth certain information regarding our
    executive officers as of February 1, 2008.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    NAME



 



    AGE



 



    POSITION




 





    Scott Kriens



 

 


    50

 


 


    Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board





    Pradeep Sindhu



 

 


    55

 


 


    Chief Technical Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board





    Mark Bauhaus



 

 


    46

 


 


    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Service Layer
    Technology Business Group





    Robyn M. Denholm



 

 


    44

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





    Mitchell Gaynor



 

 


    48

 


 


    Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary





    Edward Minshull



 

 


    49

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations





    Kim Perdikou



 

 


    50

 


 


    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Infrastructure
    Products Group








 


    SCOTT KRIENS has served as Chief Executive Officer and
    Chairman of the board of directors of Juniper Networks since
    October 1996. From April 1986 to January 1996, Mr. Kriens
    served as Vice President of Sales and Vice President of
    Operations at StrataCom, Inc., a telecommunications equipment
    company, which he co-founded in 1986. Mr. Kriens received a
    B.A. in Economics from California State University, Hayward.
    Mr. Kriens also serves on the board of directors of
    Equinix, Inc. and Verisign, Inc.


 


    PRADEEP SINDHU co-founded Juniper Networks in February
    1996 and served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
    board of directors until September 1996. Since then,
    Dr. Sindhu has served as Vice Chairman of the board of
    directors and Chief Technical Officer of Juniper Networks. From
    September 1984 to February 1991, Dr. Sindhu worked as a
    Member of the Research Staff, and from March 1987 to February
    1996, as the Principal Scientist, and from February 1994 to
    February 1996, as Distinguished Engineer at the Computer Science
    Lab, Xerox Corporation, Palo Alto Research Center, a technology
    research center. Dr. Sindhu holds a B.S.E.E. from the
    Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, an M.S.E.E. from the
    University of Hawaii and a Masters in Computer Science and Ph.D.
    in Computer Science from Carnegie-Mellon University.


 


    MARK BAUHAUS joined Juniper Networks in September 2007 as
    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Service Layer
    Technology Business Group. From January 2007 to September 2007,
    Mr. Bauhaus served as founder and principal of Bauhaus
    Productions Consulting. From December 1986 to December 2006,
    Mr. Bauhaus served at Sun Microsystems in a range of
    executive level assignments, most recently in the position of
    senior vice president, Service Oriented Architecture Software.
    Mr. Bauhaus holds a Bachelors degree in business management
    and environmental systems analysis from the University of
    California at Davis.


 


    ROBYN M. DENHOLM joined Juniper Networks in August 2007
    as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From
    January 1996 to August 2007, Ms. Denholm was at Sun
    Microsystems where she served in executive assignments that
    included senior vice president, Corporate Strategic Planning;
    senior vice president, Finance; vice president and corporate
    controller (Chief Accounting Officer); vice president, Finance;
    Service Division; director, Shared Financial Services APAC and
    Controller, Australia/New Zealand. From May 1989 to January
    1996, Ms. Denholm served at Toyota Motor Corporation
    Australia and from December 1984 to May 1989 Ms. Denholm
    served at Arthur Andersen and Company in various finance
    assignments. Ms. Denholm is a Fellow of the Institute of
    Chartered Accountants of Australia and holds a Bachelors Degree
    in Economics from the University of Sydney and a Masters of
    Commerce from the University of New South Wales.


 


    MITCHELL GAYNOR has been Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Juniper Networks, Inc. since February 2004.
    Between April 1999 and February 2004, Mr. Gaynor was Vice
    President, General Counsel and Secretary of Portal Software,
    Inc. He also served as Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of Sybase, Inc., from 1997 to 1999 and served in
    various other legal roles in Sybase between 1993 and 1997.
    Mr. Gaynor was Assistant General Counsel of ComputerLand
    Corporation, a computer equipment reseller, during 1989 and
    1990.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    From 1984 to 1989 and from 1990 to 1993, Mr. Gaynor was an
    associate with the law firm of Brobeck, Phleger &
    Harrison. Mr. Gaynor holds a J.D. from U.C. Hastings
    College of the Law and a B.A. from the University of California,
    Berkeley.


 


    EDWARD MINSHULL joined Juniper Networks in August 2001 as
    Vice President, EMEA Sales and served in that role until January
    2006 when he assumed the role of Executive Vice President,
    Worldwide Field Operations. From May 2000 to June 2001,
    Mr. Minshull was at Alcatel where he served as President of
    Alcatel Northern Europe and from May 1999 to May 2000
    Mr. Minshull was at Newbridge Networks where he served as
    President of the Americas. Mr. Minshull holds a Bachelor of
    Arts degree in Business Studies from the University of
    North Staffordshire, England, U.K.


 


    KIM PERDIKOU joined Juniper Networks in August 2000 as
    Chief Information Officer and served in that role until January
    2006 when she assumed the role as the Executive Vice President
    and General Manager of the Infrastructure Products Group. Prior
    to Juniper Networks, Ms. Perdikou served as Chief
    Information Officer at Women.com from June 1999 to August 2000,
    and held the position of Vice President, Global Networks, at
    Reader’s Digest from March 1992 to April 1998, as well as
    leadership positions at Knight Ridder from June 1999 to August
    2000, and Dun & Bradstreet from August 1989 to March
    1992. Ms. Perdikou holds a B.S. in Computing Science with
    Operational Research from Paisley University, Paisley, Scotland,
    a Post-Graduate in Education degree from Jordanhill College,
    Glasgow, Scotland, and a Masters in Information Systems from
    Pace University, New York.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We file our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 with the SEC electronically. The public may
    read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW,
    Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
    operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and
    information statements, and other information regarding issuers
    that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site
    is
    http://www.sec.gov.


 


    You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports on our website at
    http://www.juniper.net,
    by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate
    offices by calling
    (888) 586-4737
    or by sending an
    e-mail
    message to investor-relations@juniper.net. Such reports and
    other information are available on our website when they are
    available on the SEC website.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Factors
    That May Affect Future Results


 


    Investments in equity securities of publicly traded companies
    involve significant risks. The market price of our stock
    reflects a higher multiple of expected future earnings than many
    other companies. Accordingly, even small changes in investor
    expectations for our future growth and earnings, whether as a
    result of actual or rumored financial or operating results,
    changes in the mix of the products and services sold,
    acquisitions, industry changes or other factors, could trigger,
    and have triggered, significant fluctuations in the market price
    of our common stock. Investors in our securities should
    carefully consider all of the relevant factors, including, but
    not limited to, the following factors, that could affect our
    stock price.


 



    Our
    quarterly results are inherently unpredictable and subject to
    substantial fluctuations and, as a result, we may fail to meet
    the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which
    could adversely affect the trading price of our common
    stock.


 


    Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from
    quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are
    outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock
    price to fluctuate.


 


    The factors that may affect the unpredictability of our
    quarterly results include, but are not limited to, limited
    visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of
    products sold, changing market conditions, including current and
    potential customer consolidation, competition, customer
    concentration, long sales and implementation



    
    16



Table of Contents




    cycles, regional economic and political conditions and
    seasonality. For example, many companies in our industry
    experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending
    patterns, particularly in the first and third quarters.


 


    As a result, we believe that
    quarter-to-quarter
    comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good
    indication of what our future performance will be. It is likely
    that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below
    the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which
    case the price of our common stock may decline. Such a decline
    could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met
    our publicly stated revenue
    and/or
    earnings guidance.


 



    Fluctuating
    economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a
    particular period and a shortfall in revenues may harm our
    operating results.


 


    Our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions
    and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete.
    Economic weakness, customer financial difficulties and
    constrained spending on network expansion have previously
    resulted (for example, in 2001 and 2002), and may in the future
    result, in decreased revenues and earnings and could negatively
    impact our ability to forecast and manage our contract
    manufacturer relationships. Economic downturns may also lead to
    restructuring initiatives and associated expenses and impairment
    of investments. In addition, our operating expenses are largely
    based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of our
    expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the short-term.
    Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult
    to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future
    investments. Future economic weakness, customer financial
    difficulties and reductions in spending on network expansion
    could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products
    and consequently on our results of operations and stock price.


 



    Telecommunications
    companies and other large companies generally require more
    onerous terms and conditions of their vendors. As we seek to
    sell more products to such customers, we may be required to
    agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on
    our business or ability to recognize revenues.


 


    Telecommunications service provider companies and other large
    companies, because of their size, generally have had greater
    purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received
    more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous
    terms and conditions for their vendors. As we seek to sell more
    products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree
    to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that
    affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have
    an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.
    Consolidation among such large customers can further increase
    their buying power and ability to require onerous terms.


 


    For example, many customers in this class have purchased
    products from other vendors who promised certain functionality
    and failed to deliver such functionality
    and/or had
    products that caused problems and outages in the networks of
    these customers. As a result, this class of customers may
    request additional features from us and require substantial
    penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require
    substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused
    by our products. These additional requests and penalties, if we
    are required to agree to them, may affect our ability to
    recognize the revenues from such sales, which may negatively
    affect our business and our financial condition. For example, in
    April 2006, we announced that we would be required to defer a
    large amount of revenue from a customer due to the contractual
    obligations required by that customer.


 


    For arrangements with multiple elements, vendor specific
    objective evidence of fair value of the undelivered element is
    required in order to separate the components and to account for
    elements of the arrangement separately. Vendor specific
    objective evidence of fair value is based on the price charged
    when the element is sold separately. However, customers may
    require terms and conditions that make it more difficult or
    impossible for us to maintain vendor specific objective evidence
    of fair value for the undelivered elements to a similar group of
    customers, the result of which could cause us to defer the
    entire arrangement fees for a similar group of customers
    (product, maintenance, professional services, etc.) and
    recognize revenue only when the last element is delivered or if
    the only undelivered element is maintenance revenue would be
    recognized ratably over the contractual maintenance period which
    is generally one year but could be substantially longer.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    If we
    do not successfully anticipate market needs and develop products
    and product enhancements that meet those needs, or if those
    products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to
    compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will
    suffer.


 


    We cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future
    market needs or be able to develop new products or product
    enhancements to meet such needs or to meet them in a timely
    manner. If we fail to anticipate market requirements or to
    develop new products or product enhancements to meet those
    needs, such failure could substantially decrease market
    acceptance and sales of our present and future products, which
    would significantly harm our business and financial results.
    Even if we are able to anticipate, develop and commercially
    introduce new products and enhancements, there can be no
    assurance that new products or enhancements will achieve
    widespread market acceptance. For example, in the first quarter
    of 2008 we announced new products designed to address the
    Ethernet switch market, a market in which we have not had a
    historical presence. If these new products do not gain market
    acceptance at a sufficient rate of growth, or at all, our
    ability to meet future financial targets may be adversely
    affected. Any failure of our products to achieve market
    acceptance could adversely affect our business and financial
    results.


 



    We
    expect gross margin to vary over time and our recent level of
    product gross margin may not be sustainable.


 


    Our product gross margins will vary from quarter to quarter and
    the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may
    be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors,
    including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one
    or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in
    material or labor costs, excess product component or
    obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased
    costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred
    due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not
    accurately anticipate product demand, warranty related issues,
    or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets
    with different pricing and cost structures.


 



    We
    rely on value-added resellers and distribution partners to sell
    our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively
    develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes
    and procedures that support it could adversely affect our
    ability to generate revenues from the sale of our
    products.


 


    Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and
    maintaining successful relationships with a variety of
    value-added reseller and distribution partners. The majority of
    our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and
    distributors, most of which also sell competitors’ products
    or their own competitive products. Our revenues depend in part
    on the performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction
    in sales to our value-added resellers or distributors could
    materially reduce our revenues. During 2006, Alcatel, a
    value-added reseller and a competitor of ours, acquired Lucent,
    one of our largest value-added resellers. In addition, in April
    2007 our largest customer, Siemens, transferred its
    telecommunications business to Nokia-Siemens Networks, a joint
    venture between Siemens and Nokia. Our competitors may in some
    cases be effective in providing incentives to current or
    potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or
    to prevent or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to
    maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new
    relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new
    markets or expand the number of distributors and resellers in
    existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing
    value-added resellers and distributors effectively or if these
    partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our
    products may decrease and our operating results would suffer.


 


    In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenue based on a
    sell-through model using information provided by our
    distributors. If those distributors provide us with inaccurate
    or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues
    could be adversely impacted.


 


    Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution
    channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and
    procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures
    may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to
    manage. Our failure to successfully manage and develop our
    distribution channel and the processes and procedures that
    support it could adversely affect our ability to generate
    revenues from the sale of our products.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    If we
    fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we
    could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays
    which would harm our business.


 


    We provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. If we
    overestimate our requirements, the contract manufacturers may
    assess charges or we may have liabilities for excess inventory,
    each of which could negatively affect our gross margins.
    Conversely, because lead times for required materials and
    components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the
    specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each
    component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements,
    the contract manufacturers may have inadequate time or materials
    and components required to produce our products, which could
    increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our
    products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss
    of revenues.


 



    Our
    ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner
    is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of
    the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract
    manufacturers, suppliers or other partners, as well as
    interfaces with the systems of such third parties. If our
    systems, the systems and processes of those third parties or the
    interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our business
    processes and our ability to build and ship products could be
    impacted, and our financial results could be
    harmed.


 


    Some of our business processes depend upon our information
    technology systems, the systems and processes of third parties
    and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. For
    example, our order entry system feeds information into the
    systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to
    build and ship our products. If those systems fail or are
    interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or
    not at all. This could negatively impact our ability to ship
    products or otherwise operate our business, and our financial
    results could be harmed. For example, although it did not
    adversely affect our shipments, an earthquake in late December
    of 2006 disrupted communications with China, where a significant
    part of our manufacturing occurs.


 


    We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes
    of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. If
    those systems and processes experience interruption or delay,
    our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner
    may be harmed. For example, as we have expanded our contract
    manufacturing base to China, we have experienced instances where
    our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the
    time periods expected by us. If we are not able to ship our
    products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to
    recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be
    affected and our financial results could be harmed.


 



    We are
    dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for
    several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages
    or price fluctuations in our supply chain and we may face
    increased challenges in supply chain management in the
    future.


 


    With the current demand for electronic products, component
    shortages are possible and the predictability of the
    availability of such components may be limited. Growth in our
    business and the economy is likely to create greater pressures
    on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component
    demand and to establish optimal component levels. If shortages
    or delays persist, the price of these components may increase,
    or the components may not be available at all. We may not be
    able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of
    acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner and
    our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources
    can be developed. For example, throughout the first quarter of
    2006 we experienced component shortages that resulted in delays
    of shipments of product until late in the quarter and in an
    increase in our day sales outstanding. We currently purchase
    numerous key components, including ASICs, from single or limited
    sources. The development of alternate sources for those
    components is time consuming, difficult and costly. In addition,
    the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy
    and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules.
    In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from
    these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or
    second sources in a timely manner. If, as a result, we are
    unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet
    our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to
    deliver product to our customers, which would seriously impact
    present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect
    our business.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    In addition, the development, licensing or acquisition of new
    products in the future may increase the complexity of supply
    chain management. Failure to effectively manage the supply of
    key components and products would adversely affect our business.


 



    We are
    dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have
    long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships,
    expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that
    could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer
    relationships.


 


    We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which
    is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to
    manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our
    contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to
    manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific
    quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time
    consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional
    contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we should
    fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer
    relationships or if one or more of them should experience
    delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our
    manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add
    additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing
    sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be
    delayed. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or
    contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our
    supply chain management. Moreover, an increasing portion of our
    manufacturing is performed in China and other countries and is
    therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in
    other countries. Each of these factors could adversely affect
    our business and financial results.


 



    We
    face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and
    adversely affect our financial results.


 


    Competition is intense in the markets that we address. The IP
    infrastructure market has historically been dominated by Cisco
    with other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Extreme
    Networks, Foundry Networks, Huawei, and Nortel providing
    products to a smaller segment of the market. In addition, a
    number of other small public and private companies have products
    or have announced plans for new products to address the same
    challenges and market segments that our products address.


 


    In the service layer technologies market, we face intense
    competition from a broader group of companies including
    appliance vendors such as Cisco, Fortinet, F5 Networks, Nortel
    and Riverbed, and software vendors such as CheckPoint. In
    addition, a number of other small public and private companies
    have products or have announced plans for new products to
    address the same challenges that our products address.


 


    In addition, actual or speculated consolidation among
    competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and resellers by
    competitors, can increase the competitive pressures faced by us.
    In this regard, Alcatel combined with Lucent in 2006 and
    Ericsson acquired Redback in 2007. A number of our competitors
    have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range
    of products and services for the overall network equipment
    market than we do. If we are unable to compete successfully
    against existing and future competitors on the basis of product
    offerings or price, we could experience a loss in market share
    and revenues
    and/or be
    required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins,
    and which could materially and adversely affect our business,
    operating results and financial condition.


 



    A
    limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion
    of our revenues and increases the degree of customer
    concentration risk, and any decrease in revenue from these
    customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and
    operating results.


 


    A substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a
    limited number of customers and distribution partners.
    Nokia-Siemens Networks B.V. (“NSN”) and its
    predecessor companies contributed more than 10% of revenue in
    the fiscal years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005. This customer
    concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in
    our revenues and operating results. Any downturn in the business
    of our key customers or potential new customers could
    significantly decrease sales to such customers, which could
    adversely affect our net revenues and results of operations. In
    addition, there has been and continues to be consolidation in
    the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions
    of AT&T Inc., MCI, Inc. and BellSouth Corporation) and
    consolidation among the large vendors of telecommunications
    equipment and services (for example, the combination of Alcatel
    and Lucent, the joint venture of Nokia-Siemens Networks and the
    acquisition of Redback by Ericsson). Such



    
    20



Table of Contents




    consolidation may cause our customers who are involved in these
    acquisitions to suspend or indefinitely reduce their purchases
    of our products or have other unforeseen consequences that could
    harm our business and operating results.


 



    We are
    a party to lawsuits, which are costly to investigate and defend
    and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay
    damages or prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of
    which could harm our business and financial
    condition.


 


    We and certain of our current and former officers and current
    and former members of our board of directors are subject to
    various lawsuits. For example, we have been served with lawsuits
    related to the alleged backdating of stock options and other
    related matters, a description of which can be found in
    Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, under
    the heading “Legal Proceedings.” There can be no
    assurance that these or any actions that have been or may be
    brought against us will be resolved in our favor. Regardless of
    whether they are resolved in our favor, these lawsuits are, and
    any future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely
    be, expensive and time consuming to investigate, defend
    and/or
    resolve. Such costs of investigation and defense, as well as any
    losses resulting from these claims, could significantly increase
    our expenses and adversely affect our profitability and cash
    flow.


 


    In addition, we are party to a lawsuit which seeks to enjoin us
    from granting equity awards under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan
    (the “2006 Plan”), as well as to invalidate all awards
    granted under such plan to date. The 2006 Plan is the only
    active plan under which we currently grant stock options and
    restricted stock units to our employees. If this lawsuit is
    resolved against us, we may be prevented from using the 2006
    Plan to provide these equity awards to recruit new employees or
    to compensate existing employees, which would put us at a
    significant disadvantage to other companies that compete for
    workers in high technology industries such as ours. Accordingly,
    our ability to hire, retain and motivate current and prospective
    employees would be harmed, the result of which could negatively
    impact our business operations.


 



    We are
    currently implementing upgrades to key internal IT systems, and
    problems with the design or implementation of these systems
    could interfere with our business and operations.


 


    We have initiated a project to upgrade certain key internal IT
    systems, including our company-wide human resources management
    system and our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”)
    system. We have invested, and will continue to invest,
    significant capital and human resources in the design and
    implementation of these systems, which may be disruptive to our
    underlying business. Any disruptions or delays in the design and
    implementation of the new systems, particularly any disruptions
    or delays that impact our operations, could adversely affect our
    ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide
    services and support to our customers, bill and track our
    customers, fulfill contractual obligations, file SEC reports in
    a timely manner and otherwise run our business. Even if we do
    not encounter these adverse effects, the design and
    implementation of these new systems may be much more costly than
    we anticipated. If we are unable to successfully design and
    implement these new systems as planned, our financial position,
    results of operations and cash flows could be negatively
    impacted.


 



    Litigation
    or claims regarding intellectual property rights may be time
    consuming, expensive and require a significant amount of
    resources to prosecute, defend or make our products
    non-infringing.


 


    Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims
    or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark
    and other intellectual property rights to technologies and
    related standards that are relevant to our products. The
    asserted claims
    and/or
    initiated litigation may include claims against us or our
    manufacturers, suppliers or customers, alleging infringement of
    their proprietary rights with respect to our products.
    Regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can
    be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and may require
    us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license
    agreements. Furthermore, because of the potential for high
    awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily
    predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled
    for significant amounts of money. If any infringement or other
    intellectual property claim made against us by any third-party
    is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for
    significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop
    non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights
    on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business,
    operating results and financial condition could be materially
    and adversely affected.



    
    21



Table of Contents





    We are
    exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates which could
    negatively affect our financial results and cash
    flows.


 


    Because a majority of our business is conducted outside the
    United States, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could have a
    material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows.


 


    Our sales and costs of revenues are primarily denominated in
    U.S. dollars. Our operating expenses are denominated in
    U.S. dollars as well as other foreign currencies including
    the British Pound, the Euro, Indian Rupee, and Japanese
    Yen, related to our operations outside of the United States. An
    increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the
    real cost to our customers of our products in those markets
    outside the United States where we sell in U.S. dollars,
    and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating
    expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must
    purchase components in foreign currencies. A decrease in the
    value of the U.S. dollar could also increase the real cost
    to us of our expenses in countries outside the United States.


 


    Currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated
    with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional
    currencies and periodically will hedge anticipated foreign
    currency operating expenses. The hedging activities undertaken
    by us are intended to partially offset the impact of currency
    fluctuations. If our attempts to hedge against these risks are
    not successful, our net income could be adversely impacted.


 



    We are
    required to expense equity compensation given to our employees,
    which has reduced our reported earnings, will significantly harm
    our operating results in future periods and may reduce our stock
    price and our ability to effectively utilize equity compensation
    to attract and retain employees.


 


    We historically have used stock options and other equity awards
    as a significant component of our employee compensation program
    in order to align employees’ interests with the interests
    of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide
    competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting
    Standards Board has adopted changes that require companies to
    record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and
    other equity incentives. We adopted this standard effective
    January 1, 2006. By causing us to record significantly
    increased compensation costs, such accounting changes have
    reduced, and will continue to reduce, our reported earnings and
    will significantly harm our operating results in future periods.
    These factors may require us to reduce the availability and
    amount of equity incentives provided to employees, which may
    make it more difficult for us to attract, retain and motivate
    key personnel. Moreover, if securities analysts, institutional
    investors and other investors adopt financial models that
    include stock option expense in their primary analysis of our
    financial results, our stock price could decline as a result of
    reliance on these models with higher expense calculations. Each
    of these results could materially and adversely affect our
    business.


 



    Matters
    related to the investigation into our historical stock option
    granting practices and the restatement of our financial
    statements may result in additional litigation, regulatory
    proceedings and government enforcement actions.


 


    Our historical stock option granting practices and the
    restatement of our financial statements have exposed us to
    greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings
    and government enforcement actions. For more information
    regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please
    see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    under the heading “Legal Proceedings” as well as the
    other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this
    section. We have provided the results of our internal review and
    independent investigation to the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”) and the United States
    Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California,
    and in that regard we have responded to formal and informal
    requests for documents and additional information. In August
    2007, we announced that we entered into a settlement agreement
    with the SEC in connection with our historical stock option
    granting practices in which we consented to a permanent
    injunction against any future violations of the antifraud,
    reporting,
    books-and-records
    and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws.
    This settlement concludes the SEC’s formal investigation of
    the Company with respect to this matter. No assurance can be
    given regarding the outcomes from the current litigation or
    other possible actions relating to our past stock option
    practices. The resolution of these matters will be time
    consuming, expensive, and may distract management from the
    conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to
    adverse findings in



    
    22



Table of Contents




    litigation, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or
    have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business,
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    In addition, while we believe that we have made appropriate
    judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our
    stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in
    which we accounted for and reported, or did not report, the
    corresponding financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk
    that we may have to further restate our prior financial
    statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other
    actions not currently contemplated.


 



    If we
    fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control
    and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and
    grow our business will be negatively affected.


 


    Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our
    business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an
    effective planning and management process. We will need to
    continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our
    reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business
    effectively in the future. If we fail to continue to implement
    improved systems and processes, our ability to manage our
    business and results of operations may be negatively affected.


 



    Our
    success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage
    our resources and restructure our business through rapidly
    fluctuating economic and market conditions.


 


    Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a
    rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning,
    forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively
    scale our business and adjust our business in response to
    fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. In periods of
    market expansion, we have increased investment in our business
    by, for example, increasing headcount and increasing our
    investment in research and development and other parts of our
    business. Conversely, during 2001 and 2002, in response to
    downward trending industry and market conditions, we
    restructured our business and reduced our workforce. Many of our
    expenses, such as real estate expenses, cannot be rapidly or
    easily adjusted as a result of fluctuations in our business or
    numbers of employees. Moreover, rapid changes in the size of our
    workforce could adversely affect the ability to develop and
    deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability
    to realize our current or future business objectives.


 



    Our
    ability to develop, market and sell products could be harmed if
    we are unable to retain or hire key personnel.


 


    Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain the services of executive, engineering, sales, marketing
    and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified
    individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized
    technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service
    provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for
    such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key
    employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific
    term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the
    inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays
    in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales
    people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or
    training new employees, could delay the development and
    introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability
    to market, sell or support our products.


 



    We
    sell our products to customers that use those products to build
    networks and IP infrastructure and, if the demand for network
    and IP systems does not continue to grow, then our business,
    operating results and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.


 


    A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on the
    growth of secure IP infrastructure and on the deployment of our
    products by customers that depend on the continued growth of IP
    services. As a result of changes in the economy and capital
    spending or the building of network capacity in excess of
    demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected
    telecommunications service providers, spending on IP
    infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business and financial results. In addition, a
    number of our existing customers are evaluating the build out of
    their next generation network, or NGN. During the decision
    making period when the customers are determining the design of
    those networks and the selection of the equipment they will use
    in



    
    23



Table of Contents




    those networks, such customers may greatly reduce or suspend
    their spending on secure IP infrastructure. Such pauses in
    purchases can make it more difficult to predict revenues from
    such customers, can cause fluctuations in the level of spending
    by these customers and, even where our products are ultimately
    selected, can have a material adverse effect on our business and
    financial results.


 



    The
    long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well
    as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place
    large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and
    operating results to vary significantly from quarter to
    quarter.


 


    A customer’s decision to purchase certain of our products
    involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy
    evaluation and product qualification process. As a result, the
    sales cycle may be lengthy. In particular, customers making
    critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of
    large or next-generation networks may engage in very lengthy
    procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future
    orders. Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable
    time educating and providing information to prospective
    customers regarding the use and benefits of our products. Even
    after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our
    products slowly and deliberately. Timing of deployment can vary
    widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of
    the network deployment, the complexity of the customer’s
    network environment and the degree of hardware and operating
    system configuration necessary to deploy the products. Customers
    with large networks usually expand their networks in large
    increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive
    purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular
    basis. These long cycles, as well as our expectation that
    customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with
    short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to
    vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter.


 



    Integration
    of past acquisitions and future acquisitions could disrupt our
    business and harm our financial condition and stock price and
    may dilute the ownership of our stockholders.


 


    We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to
    enhance our business. In 2005 we completed the acquisitions of
    five private companies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks,
    including problems combining the purchased operations,
    technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of
    management’s attention from our core businesses, adverse
    effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and
    customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we
    have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key
    employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or
    personnel that we might acquire. The integration of businesses
    that we have acquired has been, and will continue to be, a
    complex, time consuming and expensive process. Acquisitions may
    also require us to issue common stock that dilutes the ownership
    of our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill
    and
    non-amortizable
    intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on
    a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur
    amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and
    incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other
    related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results
    and financial condition.


 


    In addition, if we fail in our integration efforts with respect
    to our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a
    combined organization utilizing common information and
    communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls
    and human resources practices, our business and financial
    condition may be adversely affected.


 



    Our
    products are highly technical and if they contain undetected
    errors, our business could be adversely affected and we might
    have to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any
    alleged or actual failure of our products and
    services.


 


    Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to
    the operation of many networks and, in the case of our security
    products, provide and monitor network security and may protect
    valuable information. Our products have contained and may
    contain one or more undetected errors, defects or security
    vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products may only be
    discovered after a product has been installed and used by end
    customers. Any errors or security vulnerabilities discovered in
    our products after commercial release could result in loss of
    revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and
    increased service and warranty cost, any of which could
    adversely



    
    24



Table of Contents




    affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we
    could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of
    warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is
    costly and may divert management’s attention. In addition,
    if our business liability insurance coverage is inadequate or
    future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all,
    our financial condition could be harmed.


 



    A
    breach of network security could harm public perception of our
    security products, which could cause us to lose
    revenues.


 


    If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in
    the network of a customer of our security products, regardless
    of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the
    market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be
    harmed. This could cause us to lose current and potential end
    customers or cause us to lose current and potential value-added
    resellers and distributors. Because the techniques used by
    computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change
    frequently and generally are not recognized until launched
    against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these
    techniques.


 



    If our
    products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks,
    installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our
    business.


 


    Our products are designed to interface with our customers’
    existing networks, each of which have different specifications
    and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other
    vendors. Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple
    generations of products that have been added over time as these
    networks have grown and evolved. Our products will be required
    to interoperate with many or all of the products within these
    networks as well as future products in order to meet our
    customers’ requirements. If we find errors in the existing
    software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’
    networks, we may have to modify our software or hardware to fix
    or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate
    and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could
    be costly and negatively impact our operating results. In
    addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our
    customers’ networks, demand for our products could be
    adversely affected or orders for our products could be
    cancelled. This could hurt our operating results, damage our
    reputation and seriously harm our business and prospects.


 



    Governmental
    regulations affecting the import or export of products could
    negatively affect our revenues.


 


    The United States and various other governments have imposed
    controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the
    import or export of some technologies, especially encryption
    technology. In addition, from time to time, governmental
    agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption
    technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental
    recovery of private encryption keys. Governmental regulation of
    encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or
    our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our
    products, could harm our international and domestic sales and
    adversely affect our revenues.


 



    Due to
    the global nature of our operations, economic or social
    conditions or changes in a particular country or region could
    adversely affect our sales or increase our costs and expenses,
    which could have a material adverse impact on our financial
    condition.


 


    We conduct significant sales and customer support operations
    directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added
    resellers in countries throughout the world and also depend on
    the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that
    are located inside and outside of the United States. In
    addition, our research and development operations are conducted
    in the United States as well as other countries. Our future
    results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of
    uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others,
    political or social unrest, natural disasters, epidemic disease,
    war, or economic instability in a specific country or region,
    trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements
    which may affect our ability to import or export our products
    from various countries, service provider and government spending
    patterns affected by political considerations and difficulties
    in staffing and managing international operations. Any or all of
    these factors could have a material adverse impact on our
    revenue, costs, expenses, results of operations and financial
    condition.



    
    25



Table of Contents





    Our
    products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party
    technology and if licenses of third-party technology do not
    continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our
    revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could
    be adversely affected.


 


    We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our
    products. From time to time, we may be required to license
    additional technology from third parties to develop new products
    or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be
    available or continue to be available to us on commercially
    reasonable terms. Our inability to maintain or re-license any
    third-party licenses required in our products or our inability
    to obtain
    third-party
    licenses necessary to develop new products and product
    enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute technology
    of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost,
    any of which could harm our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    We are
    subject to risks arising from our international
    operations.


 


    We derive a majority of our revenues from our international
    operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in
    international markets in the future. As a result of our
    international operations, we are affected by economic,
    regulatory and political conditions in foreign countries,
    including changes in IT spending generally, the imposition of
    government controls, changes or limitations in trade protection
    laws, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural
    disasters, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions,
    misappropriation of intellectual property, acts of terrorism and
    continued unrest in many regions and other factors, which could
    have a material impact on our international revenues and
    operations. In particular, in some countries we may experience
    reduced intellectual property protection. Moreover, local laws
    and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in
    the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in
    those with developing economies, it is common for others to
    engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal
    policies and procedures or United States regulations applicable
    to us. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to
    ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no
    assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will
    not take actions in violations of them. Violations of laws or
    key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents
    could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties,
    or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products
    and could have a material adverse effect on our business.


 



    While
    we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over
    financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation
    requiring companies to evaluate those internal
    controls.


 


    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our
    management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest
    to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and
    process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these
    requirements. We have and will continue to incur significant
    expenses and devote management resources to Section 404
    compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our chief
    executive officer, chief financial officer or independent
    registered public accounting firm determine in the future that
    our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective
    as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions may be
    adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price
    of our stock.


 



    Regulation
    of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating
    results and future prospects.


 


    The telecommunications industry is highly regulated and our
    business and financial condition could be adversely affected by
    changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications
    industry. Currently, there are few laws or regulations that
    apply directly to access to or commerce on IP networks. We could
    be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce
    in any country where we operate. Such regulations could address
    matters such as voice over the Internet or using Internet
    Protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for service
    providers. In addition, regulations have been adopted with
    respect to environmental matters, such as the Waste Electrical
    and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) and Restriction of
    the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and
    Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”) regulations adopted by
    the European Union, as well as regulations prohibiting
    government entities from purchasing security products that do
    not meet specified local certification criteria. Compliance with
    such regulations may be costly and time-consuming for us and our
    suppliers and partners. The adoption and implementation of such
    regulations could decrease demand for our products, and at



    
    26



Table of Contents




    the same time could increase the cost of building and selling
    our products as well as impact our ability to ship products into
    affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely manner, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
    results and financial condition.


 



    Our
    reported financial results could suffer if there is an
    additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets
    with indefinite lives.


 


    We are required to annually test, and review on an interim
    basis, our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives,
    including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any
    future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. If
    such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the
    amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of
    the assets would be recognized. This would result in incremental
    expenses for that quarter which would reduce any earnings or
    increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was
    determined to have occurred. For example, such impairment could
    occur if the market value of our common stock falls below
    certain levels for a sustained period or if the portions of our
    business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at
    expected rates or decline. In the second quarter of 2006, this
    impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of
    $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our
    balance sheet for the SLT segment, primarily due to the decline
    in our market capitalization that occurred over a period of
    approximately nine months prior to the impairment review and, to
    a lesser extent, a decrease in the forecasted future cash flows
    used in the income approach. Declines in our stock prices in the
    future as well as any marked decline in our level of revenues or
    gross margins increase the risk that goodwill and intangible
    assets may become impaired in future periods. We cannot
    accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of
    assets.


 



    Changes
    in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from
    examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely
    affect our results.


 


    Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or
    adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in
    countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than
    anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory
    rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets
    and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax
    credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments related to certain
    acquisitions including the license of acquired intangibles under
    our intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement; by tax
    effects of stock-based compensation; by costs related to
    intercompany restructurings; or by changes in tax laws,
    regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof.
    In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our
    income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax
    authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
    outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the
    adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no
    assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations
    will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and
    financial condition.


 



    The
    investment of our cash balance and our investments in government
    and corporate debt securities are subject to risks which may
    cause losses and affect the liquidity of these
    investments.


 


    At December 31, 2007, we had $1,716.1 million in cash
    and cash equivalents and $291.1 million in investments in
    government and corporate debt securities. We have invested these
    amounts in U.S. government securities, corporate notes and
    bonds, commercial paper, and money market funds meeting certain
    criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general
    credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be
    exacerbated by U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have
    affected various sectors of the financial markets and caused
    credit and liquidity issues. These market risks associated with
    our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on
    our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.


 



    Uninsured
    losses could harm our operating results.


 


    We self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as
    intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit
    programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against
    the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either
    not deemed cost-effective or is not available. We also maintain
    a program of insurance coverage for various types of property,
    casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with
    various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The types and
    amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and



    
    27



Table of Contents




    from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and
    our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are
    subject to deductibles, policy limits and exclusions that result
    in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis.
    Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and
    unpredictable and could adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B