Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors,” for more
    information.


 


    Our sales teams operate in their respective regions and
    generally either engage customers directly or manage customer
    opportunities through our distribution and reseller
    relationships or channels as described below.


 


    In the United States and Canada, we sell to several service
    providers directly and sell to other service providers and
    enterprise customers primarily through distributors and
    resellers. Almost all of our sales outside the United States and
    Canada are made through our channel partners.


 



    Direct
    Sales Structure


 


    Where we have a direct relationship with our customers, the
    terms and conditions are governed either by customer purchase
    orders and our acknowledgement of those orders or by purchase
    contracts. In instances where we have direct contracts with our
    customers, those contracts set forth only general terms of sale
    and do not require customers to purchase specified quantities of
    our products. For this type of customer, our sales team engages
    directly with the customer. We directly receive and process
    customer purchase orders.


 



    Channel
    Sales Structure


 


    A critical part of our sales and marketing efforts are our
    channel partners through which we do the majority of our
    business. We employ various channel partners, including but not
    limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    A global network of strategic distribution relationships, as
    well as region or country-specific distributors who in turn sell
    to local value-added resellers who sell to end-user customers.
    The distribution channel partners mainly sell our SLT products
    plus certain Infrastructure products that are often purchased by
    our enterprise customers. These distributors tend to be focused
    on particular regions or particular countries within regions.
    For example, we have substantial distribution relationships with
    Ingram Micro in the Americas and with NEC in Japan. Our
    agreements with these distributors are generally non-exclusive,
    limited by region, and provide product discounts and other
    ordinary terms of sale. These agreements do not require our
    distributors to purchase specified quantities of our products.




 



     
        • 

    
    Direct value-added resellers including our strategic resellers
    referenced below, which resell our products to end-users around
    the world. These direct value-added resellers buy the products
    and services directly from us and have expertise in deploying
    complex networking solutions in their respective markets. Our
    agreements with these direct value-added resellers are generally
    non-exclusive, limited by region, and provide product discounts
    and other ordinary terms of sale. These agreements do not
    require our direct value-added resellers to purchase specified
    quantities of our products.




 



     
        • 

    
    Strategic worldwide reseller relationships with NSN, Ericsson
    Telecom A.B. (“Ericsson”), and IBM. These companies
    each offer services and products that complement, but in some
    cases compete with, our own product offerings and act as a
    fulfillment partner for our products. Our arrangements with
    these partners allow them to resell our products on a worldwide,
    non-exclusive basis, provide for product discounts, and specify
    other general terms of sale. These agreements do not require
    these partners to purchase specified quantities of our products.




 



     
        • 

    
    OEM relationships with Dell Corporation and IBM. Our OEM
    arrangements with these partners allow them to rebrand and
    resell certain of our product lines on a worldwide,
    non-exclusive basis, provide for product discounts, and specify
    other general terms of sale. These agreements do not require
    these partners to purchase specified quantities of our products.





 


    Within each region, we employ sales professionals to assist with
    the management of our various sales channels. In addition, we
    have a “direct touch” sales team that works directly
    with the channel partners on key accounts in order to maintain a
    direct relationship with our more strategic end-user customers
    while at the same time supporting the ultimate fulfillment of
    product through our channel partners.




    
    10



Table of Contents






    Backlog


 


    Our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders under
    framework agreements with our customers. At any given time, we
    have backlog orders for products that have not been shipped.
    Because customers may cancel purchase orders or change delivery
    schedules without significant penalty, we believe that our
    backlog at any given date may not be a reliable indicator of
    future operating results. As of December 31, 2009, and
    2008, our total backlog orders was approximately
    $270 million and $250 million, respectively. Our
    backlog consists of confirmed orders for products scheduled to
    be shipped to customers generally within six months. Our backlog
    excludes orders from distributors as we recognize product
    revenue on sales made through distributors upon sell-through to
    end-users.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal
    fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the
    first and third quarters. In addition, our SLT segment has
    experienced seasonally strong customer demand in the fourth
    quarter. This historical pattern should not be considered a
    reliable indicator of our future net revenues or financial
    performance.


 



    Competition


 



    Infrastructure
    Business


 


    In the network infrastructure business, Cisco Systems has
    historically been the dominant player in the market. However,
    other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade Communications
    Systems, Inc., Ericsson, Extreme Networks, Inc., Hewlett Packard
    Company, and Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. are providing
    competitive products in the marketplace.


 


    Many of our current and potential competitors, such as Cisco,
    Alcatel-Lucent, and Huawei have significantly broader product
    lines than we do and may bundle their products with other
    networking products in a manner that may discourage customers
    from purchasing our products. In addition, consolidation among
    competitors, or the acquisition of our partners and resellers by
    competitors, can increase the competitive pressure faced by us.
    For example, in 2007, Ericsson acquired Redback Networks, and in
    2009, Brocade acquired Foundry Networks. In addition, many of
    our current and potential competitors have greater name
    recognition and more extensive customer bases that could be
    leveraged. Increased competition could result in price
    reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and
    loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our
    operating results.


 



    SLT
    Business


 


    In the market for SLT products, Cisco generally is our primary
    competitor with its broad range of products. In addition, there
    are a number of other competitors for each of the product lines
    within SLT, including Checkpoint Software Technologies,
    Fortinet, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., and Riverbed Technology, Inc.
    These additional competitors tend to be focused on single
    product line solutions and, therefore, are generally specialized
    as competitors to our products. In addition, a number of public
    and private companies have announced plans for new products to
    address the same needs that our products address. We believe
    that our ability to compete with Cisco and others depends upon
    our ability to demonstrate that our products are superior in
    meeting the needs of our current and potential customers.


 


    For both product groups, we expect that, over time, large
    companies with significant resources, technical expertise,
    market experience, customer relationships, and broad product
    lines, such as Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, and Huawei, will introduce
    new products, which are designed to compete more effectively in
    the market. There are also several other companies that claim to
    have products with greater capabilities than our products.
    Consolidation in this industry has begun, with one or more of
    these companies being acquired by large, established suppliers
    of network infrastructure products, and we believe it is likely
    to continue.


 


    As a result, we expect to face increased competition in the
    future from larger companies with significantly more resources
    than we have. Although we believe that our technology and the
    purpose-built features of our





    
    11



Table of Contents





    products make them unique and will enable us to compete
    effectively with these companies, we cannot guarantee that we
    will be successful.


 



    Environment


 


    We are subject to regulations that have been adopted with
    respect to environmental matters, such as the Waste Electrical
    and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”), Restriction of the
    Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (“RoHS”), and Registration, Evaluation,
    Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (“Reach”)
    regulations adopted by the European Union. In addition, we
    participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”).
    CDP is a global standardized mechanism by which companies report
    their greenhouse gas emissions to institutional investors. It
    hosts one of the largest registries of corporate greenhouse gas
    data in the world at www.cdproject.net. We continue to invest in
    the infrastructure and systems required to be able to inventory
    and measure our carbon footprint on a global basis. We believe
    we have made significant strides in improving our energy
    efficiency around the world.


 


    Compliance with federal, state, local, and foreign laws enacted
    for the protection of the environment has to date had no
    material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or
    competitive position.


 


    In addition, we are committed to the environment by our effort
    in improving the energy efficiency of key elements of our
    high-performance network product offerings. For example, our
    T1600 router consumes substantially less energy than competitive
    products. The environment will remain a focus area across
    multiple aspects of our business.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 


    Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent
    upon our internally developed technology and expertise.


 


    While we rely on patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark
    law to protect our technology, we also believe that factors such
    as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new
    product developments, frequent product enhancements, and
    reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and
    maintaining a technology leadership position. There can be no
    assurance that others will not develop technologies that are
    similar or superior to our technology.


 


    In addition, we integrate licensed third-party technology into
    certain of our products. From time to time, we license
    additional technology from third parties to develop new products
    or product enhancements. There can be no assurance that
    third-party licenses will be available or continue to be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our inability
    to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in
    our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses
    necessary to develop new products and product enhancements could
    require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or
    performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could
    harm our business, financial condition, and results of
    operations.


 


    Our success will depend upon our ability to obtain necessary
    intellectual property rights and protect our intellectual
    property rights. We cannot be certain that patents will be
    issued on the patent applications that we have filed, or that we
    will be able to obtain the necessary intellectual property
    rights or that other parties will not contest our intellectual
    property rights.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had 7,231 full-time
    employees. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we
    consider our relations with our employees to be good.
    Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense.
    We believe that our future success depends in part on our
    continued ability to hire, motivate, and retain qualified
    personnel. We believe that we have been successful in recruiting
    qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will
    continue to be successful in the future.


 


    Our future performance depends in significant part upon the
    continued service of our key technical, sales, and senior
    management personnel, none of whom is bound by an employment
    agreement requiring service for any





    
    12



Table of Contents





    defined period of time. The loss of the services of one or more
    of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our
    future success also depends on our continuing ability to
    attract, train, and retain highly qualified technical, sales,
    and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is
    intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our
    key personnel in the future.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    The following sets forth certain information regarding our
    executive officers as of the filing of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 






    Kevin R. Johnson



 

 


    49

 


 


    Chief Executive Officer





    Pradeep Sindhu



 

 


    57

 


 


    Chief Technical Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board





    Mark Bauhaus



 

 


    48

 


 


    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Service Layer
    Technology Business Group





    Robyn M. Denholm



 

 


    46

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





    Stefan Dyckerhoff



 

 


    37

 


 


    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Infrastructure
    Products Group





    Mitchell Gaynor



 

 


    50

 


 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary





    John Morris



 

 


    49

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services





    Michael J. Rose



 

 


    57

 


 


    Executive Vice President of Service, Support and Operations





    Gene Zamiska



 

 


    48

 


 


    Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller








 


    KEVIN R. JOHNSON joined Juniper Networks in September
    2008 as Chief Executive Officer. Prior to Juniper Networks,
    Mr. Johnson was at Microsoft Corporation, a worldwide
    provider of software, services, and solutions, where he had
    served as President, Platforms and Services Division since
    January 2007. He had been Co-President of the Platforms and
    Services Division since September 2005. Prior to that role, he
    held the position of Microsoft’s Group Vice President,
    Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Services since March 2003. Before
    that position, Mr. Johnson had been Senior Vice President,
    Microsoft Americas since February 2002 and Senior Vice
    President, U.S. Sales, Marketing, and Services since August
    2000. Before joining Microsoft in September 1992,
    Mr. Johnson worked in IBM’s systems integration and
    consulting business and started his career as a software
    developer. He earned a Bachelor’s degree in business
    administration from New Mexico State University and served as a
    founding member of the Board of Directors of NPower, a nonprofit
    organization whose mission is to help other nonprofits use
    technology to expand the reach and impact of their work.
    Mr. Johnson also served as a member of the Western Region
    Board of Advisors of Catalyst, a non-profit organization
    dedicated to women’s career advancement.


 


    PRADEEP SINDHU founded Juniper Networks in February 1996
    and served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board
    of Directors until September 1996. Since then, Dr. Sindhu
    has served as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
    Technical Officer of Juniper Networks. From September 1984 to
    February 1991, Dr. Sindhu worked as a Member of the
    Research Staff, and from March 1987 to February 1996, as the
    Principal Scientist, and from February 1994 to February 1996, as
    Distinguished Engineer at the Computer Science Lab, Xerox
    Corporation, Palo Alto Research Center, a technology research
    center. Dr. Sindhu holds a B.S.E.E. from the Indian
    Institute of Technology in Kanpur, an M.S.E.E. from the
    University of Hawaii, and a Masters in Computer Science and
    Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie-Mellon University.


 


    MARK BAUHAUS joined Juniper Networks in September 2007 as
    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Service Layer
    Technology Business Group. From January 2007 to September 2007,
    Mr. Bauhaus served as founder and principal of Bauhaus
    Productions Consulting. From December 1986 to December 2006,
    Mr. Bauhaus served at Sun Microsystems in a range of
    executive level assignments, most recently in the position of
    Senior Vice





    
    13



Table of Contents





    President, Service Oriented Architecture Software.
    Mr. Bauhaus holds a Bachelors degree in business management
    and environmental systems analysis from the University of
    California at Davis.


 


    ROBYN M. DENHOLM joined Juniper Networks in August 2007
    as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From
    January 1996 to August 2007, Ms. Denholm was at Sun
    Microsystems where she served in executive assignments that
    included Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning;
    Senior Vice President, Finance; Vice President and Corporate
    Controller (Chief Accounting Officer); Vice President, Finance;
    Service Division; Director, Shared Financial Services APAC; and
    Controller, Australia/New Zealand. From May 1989 to January
    1996, Ms. Denholm served at Toyota Motor Corporation
    Australia and from December 1984 to May 1989, Ms. Denholm
    served at Arthur Andersen and Company in various finance
    assignments. Ms. Denholm is a Fellow of the Institute of
    Chartered Accountants of Australia and holds a Bachelors Degree
    in Economics from the University of Sydney and a Masters of
    Commerce from the University of New South Wales.


 


    STEFAN DYCKERHOFF joined Juniper Networks in October 2009
    and serves as our Executive Vice President and General Manager,
    Infrastructure Products Group. From May 2004 to September 2009,
    Mr. Dyckerhoff was at Cisco Systems serving as Vice
    President and General Manager of the Edge Routing Business Unit.
    From January 1997 to May 2004, Mr. Dyckerhoff was at
    Juniper Networks serving in various roles in the engineering
    organization. Mr. Dyckerhoff holds a Bachelors degree in
    Electrical Engineering from Duke University and a Masters degree
    in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.


 


    MITCHELL GAYNOR is Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel, and Secretary and joined Juniper Networks in February
    2004. Between April 1999 and February 2004, Mr. Gaynor was
    Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Portal
    Software, Inc. He also served as Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Sybase, Inc., from 1997 to 1999 and served in
    various other legal roles in Sybase between 1993 and 1997.
    Mr. Gaynor was Assistant General Counsel of ComputerLand
    Corporation, a computer equipment reseller, during 1989 and
    1990. From 1984 to 1989 and from 1990 to 1993, Mr. Gaynor
    was an associate with the law firm of Brobeck,
    Phleger & Harrison. Mr. Gaynor holds a J.D. from
    U.C. Hastings College of the Law and a B.A. in History from the
    University of California, Berkeley.


 


    JOHN MORRIS joined Juniper Networks in July 2008 as
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations. From 2005
    to 2008, Mr. Morris served as President and Chief Operating
    Officer of Pay By Touch, a biometric payment technology company.
    Prior to Pay By Touch, Mr. Morris spent 23 years at
    IBM Corporation, where he served in a range of executive
    assignments, most recently as Vice President and General Manager
    of the Distribution Sector in the Americas region.
    Mr. Morris also served on IBM’s Global Marketing
    Council, as well as extensive experience in the Asian theater,
    including serving as Vice President and General Manager of the
    distribution sector for Asia Pacific, based in Tokyo, Japan.
    Mr. Morris holds a degree in Finance from Indiana
    University Bloomington.


 


    MICHAEL J. ROSE joined Juniper Networks in November 2008
    as Executive Vice President of Service, Support and Operations.
    From December 2005 to November 2008, Mr. Rose was an
    independent business consultant. From September 2001 to December
    2005, Mr. Rose served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Information Officer of Royal Dutch Shell plc. Prior to Royal
    Dutch Shell, Mr. Rose worked for 23 years in a wide
    range of positions at Hewlett Packard Company, including
    controller for various business groups. In 1997, he was named
    Hewlett Packard’s Chief Information Officer, and in 2000,
    he was elected an officer by the Board of Directors of Hewlett
    Packard. He was named the company’s Controller in 2001.
    Rose holds a Bachelor’s degree in economics from the State
    University of New York at Geneseo, N.Y.


 


    GENE ZAMISKA joined Juniper Networks in December 2007 as
    Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. In February
    2009, Mr. Zamiska was appointed as Chief Accounting Officer
    of Juniper Networks. From February 1989 through November 2007,
    Mr. Zamiska served in various roles in the finance
    department of Hewlett Packard Company, a provider of technology
    hardware, software, and services, most recently serving as
    Senior Director of Finance for Hewlett Packard’s consulting
    and integration division and Senior Director of Finance and
    Assistant Corporate Controller. Mr. Zamiska is a Certified
    Public Accountant and holds a BS in Business-Accounting from the
    University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    Available
    Information


 


    We file our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the U.S. Securities
    and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) electronically.
    The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC
    at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and
    information statements, and other information regarding issuers,
    including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.
    The address of that website is
    http://www.sec.gov.


 


    You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports on our website at
    http://www.juniper.net,
    by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate
    offices by calling 1-888-586-4737, or by sending an
    e-mail
    message to investor-relations@juniper.net. Such reports and
    other information are available on our website when they are
    available on the SEC website. Our Corporate Governance
    Standards, the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation
    Committee, Stock Committee and Nominating and Corporate
    Governance Committee, as well as our Worldwide Code of Business
    Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website.
    Information on our website is not a part of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Factors
    That May Affect Future Results


 


    Investments in equity securities of publicly-traded companies
    involve significant risks. The market price of our stock has
    historically reflected a higher multiple of expected future
    earnings than many other companies. Accordingly, even small
    changes in investor expectations for our future growth and
    earnings, whether as a result of actual or rumored financial or
    operating results, changes in the mix of the products and
    services sold, acquisitions, industry changes or other factors,
    could trigger, and have triggered, significant fluctuations in
    the market price of our common stock. Investors in our
    securities should carefully consider all of the relevant
    factors, including, but not limited to, the following factors,
    that could affect our stock price.


 



    Our
    quarterly results are inherently unpredictable and subject to
    substantial fluctuations, and, as a result, we may fail to meet
    the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which
    could adversely affect the trading price of our common
    stock.


 


    Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from
    quarter-to-quarter
    due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our
    control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate.


 


    The factors that may affect the unpredictability of our
    quarterly results include, but are not limited to: limited
    visibility into customer spending plans, changes in the mix of
    products sold, changes in geographies in which our products are
    sold, changing market conditions, including current and
    potential customer consolidation, competition, customer
    concentration, long sales and implementation cycles, regional
    economic and political conditions, and seasonality. For example,
    many companies in our industry experience adverse seasonal
    fluctuations in customer spending patterns, particularly in the
    first and third quarters.


 


    As a result, we believe that
    quarter-to-quarter
    comparisons of operating results are not necessarily a good
    indication of what our future performance will be. It is likely
    that in some future quarters, our operating results may be below
    the expectations of securities analysts or investors, in which
    case the price of our common stock may decline. Such a decline
    could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met
    our publicly stated revenues
    and/or
    earnings guidance.


 



    Fluctuating
    economic conditions make it difficult to predict revenues for a
    particular period and a shortfall in revenues or increase in
    costs of production may harm our operating
    results.


 


    Our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions
    and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete.
    Economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, and
    constrained spending on network





    
    15



Table of Contents





    expansion have recently resulted, and may in the future result,
    in decreased revenues and earnings and could negatively impact
    our ability to forecast and manage our contract manufacturer
    relationships. In addition, recent turmoil in the global
    financial markets and associated economic weakness, or
    recession, particularly in the United States and Europe, as well
    as turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the
    world, may continue to put pressure on global economic
    conditions, which could lead to continued reduced demand for our
    products
    and/or
    higher costs of production. The current economic weakness may
    also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our
    customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring
    initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of
    investments. Furthermore, the recent disruption in worldwide
    credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers
    to adequately fund their expected capital expenditures, which
    could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of
    our products or services. In addition, our operating expenses
    are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high
    percentage of our expenses is, and will continue to be, fixed in
    the short-term. Uncertainty about future economic conditions
    makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make
    decisions about future investments. Future or continued economic
    weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in costs of
    production, and reductions in spending on network maintenance
    and expansion could have a material adverse effect on demand for
    our products and consequently on our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations.


 



    A
    limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion
    of our revenues and any decrease in revenues from these
    customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and
    operating results.


 


    A substantial majority of our net revenues depend on sales to a
    limited number of customers and distribution partners. For
    example, AT&T, Inc., accounted for greater than 10% of our
    net revenues in fiscal year 2009. This customer concentration
    increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and
    operating results. Changes in the business requirements, vendor
    selection, or purchasing behavior of our key customers or
    potential new customers could significantly decrease sales to
    such customers. In addition, the recession’s impact on
    worldwide credit markets may adversely impact the ability of our
    customers to adequately fund their expected capital
    expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of
    planned purchases of our products or services. Any of these
    factors could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations.


 


    In addition, in recent years, there has been consolidation in
    the telecommunications industry (for example, the acquisitions
    of AT&T, Inc., MCI, Inc., and BellSouth Corporation) and
    consolidation among the large vendors of telecommunications
    equipment and services (for example, the acquisition of Redback
    by Ericsson, the joint venture of NSN, and the acquisition of
    Foundry Networks by Brocade). Such consolidation may cause our
    customers who are involved in these transactions to suspend or
    indefinitely reduce their purchases of our products or have
    other unforeseen consequences that could harm our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    If we
    receive Infrastructure product orders late in a quarter, we may
    be unable to recognize revenue for these orders in the same
    period, which could adversely affect our quarterly
    revenues.


 


    Generally, our Infrastructure products are not stocked by
    distributors or resellers due to their cost and complexity and
    configurations required by our customers, and we generally build
    such products as orders are received. If orders for these
    products are received late in any quarter, we may not be able to
    build, ship, and recognize revenue for these orders in the same
    period, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our
    expected revenues for such quarter.


 



    We
    face intense competition that could reduce our revenues and
    adversely affect our financial results.


 


    Competition is intense in the markets that we address. The
    infrastructure market has historically been dominated by Cisco
    with other companies such as Alcatel-Lucent, Brocade, Ericsson,
    Extreme Networks, Hewlett-Packard Company, and Huawei providing
    products to a smaller segment of the market. In addition, a
    number of other small public and private companies have products
    or have announced plans for new products to address the same
    challenges and markets that our products address.


 


    In the SLT market, we face intense competition from a broader
    group of companies such as CheckPoint, Cisco, Fortinet, F5
    Networks, and Riverbed. In addition, a number of other small
    public and private companies have





    
    16



Table of Contents





    products or have announced plans for new products to address the
    same challenges and markets that our products address.


 


    In addition, actual or speculated consolidation among
    competitors, or the acquisition of our partners
    and/or
    resellers by competitors, can increase the competitive pressures
    faced by us. In this regard, Ericsson acquired Redback in 2007
    and Brocade acquired Foundry Networks in 2009. A number of our
    competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a
    wider range of products and services for the overall network
    equipment market than we do. If we are unable to compete
    successfully against existing and future competitors on the
    basis of product offerings or price, we could experience a loss
    in market share and revenues
    and/or be
    required to reduce prices, which could reduce our gross margins,
    and which could materially and adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    We
    rely on value-added resellers, distribution, and original
    equipment manufacturer partners to sell our products, and
    disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage
    our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that
    support it could adversely affect our ability to generate
    revenues from the sale of our products.


 


    Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and
    maintaining successful relationships with a variety of
    value-added reseller and distribution partners, including our
    worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, and NSN. The
    majority of our revenues are derived through value-added
    resellers and distributors, most of which also sell
    competitors’ products. Our revenues depend in part on the
    performance of these partners. The loss of or reduction in sales
    to our value-added resellers or distributors could materially
    reduce our revenues. For example, in 2006, one of our largest
    resellers, Lucent, merged with Alcatel, a competitor of ours. As
    a result of becoming a competitor, their resales of our products
    declined subsequent to the merger, and we ultimately terminated
    our reseller agreement. Our competitors may in some cases be
    effective in providing incentives to current or potential
    resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent
    or reduce sales of our products. If we fail to maintain and
    develop relationships with our partners, fail to develop new
    relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new
    markets, or expand the number of distributors and resellers in
    existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing
    value-added resellers and distributors effectively, or if these
    partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our
    products may decrease, and our business, financial condition,
    and results of operations would suffer.


 


    In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues based on a
    sell-through model using information provided by our
    distributors. If those distributors provide us with inaccurate
    or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues
    could be adversely impacted.


 


    Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution
    channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and
    procedures that support it, and those processes and procedures
    may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to
    manage. For example, we recently entered into an agreement to
    form a joint venture with NSN to develop and resell joint
    carrier Ethernet solutions and entered into OEM agreements with
    Dell and IBM where they will rebrand and resell our products as
    part of their product portfolios. These relationships are
    complex and require additional processes and procedures that may
    be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage. Our
    failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution
    channel and the processes and procedures that support it could
    adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale
    of our products.


 



    Our
    ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner
    is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of
    the systems and processes of third parties such as our contract
    manufacturers, suppliers, or other partners, as well as
    interfaces with the systems of such third parties. If our
    systems, the systems and processes of those third parties, or
    the interfaces between them experience delays or fail, our
    business processes and our ability to build and ship products
    could be impacted, and our financial results could be
    harmed.


 


    Some of our business processes depend upon our information
    technology systems, the systems and processes of third parties,
    and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. For
    example, our order entry system feeds information into the
    systems of our contract manufacturers, which enable them to
    build and ship our products. If





    
    17



Table of Contents





    those systems fail or are interrupted, our processes may
    function at a diminished level or not at all. This could
    negatively impact our ability to ship products or otherwise
    operate our business, and our financial results could be harmed.
    For example, although it did not adversely affect our shipments,
    an earthquake in late December of 2006 disrupted communications
    with China, where a significant part of our manufacturing occurs.


 


    We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes
    of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products. If
    those systems and processes experience interruption or delay,
    our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner
    may be harmed. For example, as we have expanded our contract
    manufacturing base to China, we have experienced instances where
    our contract manufacturer was not able to ship products in the
    time periods expected by us. If we are not able to ship our
    products or if product shipments are delayed, our ability to
    recognize revenue in a timely manner for those products would be
    affected and our financial results could be harmed.


 



    We are
    currently implementing upgrades to key internal systems and
    processes, and problems with the design or implementation of
    these systems and processes could interfere with our business
    and operations.


 


    In 2007, we initiated a multi-year project to upgrade certain
    key internal systems and processes, including our company-wide
    human resources management system, our customer relationship
    management (“CRM”) system and enterprise resource
    planning (“ERP”) system. We have invested, and will
    continue to invest, significant capital and human resources in
    the design and implementation of these systems and processes,
    which may be disruptive to our underlying business. Any
    disruptions or delays in the design and implementation of the
    new systems or processes, particularly any disruptions or delays
    that impact our operations, could adversely affect our ability
    to process customer orders, ship products, provide service and
    support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill
    contractual obligations, record and transfer information in a
    timely and accurate manner, file SEC reports in a timely manner,
    or otherwise run our business. Even if we do not encounter these
    adverse effects, the design and implementation of these new
    systems and processes may be much more costly than we
    anticipated. If we are unable to successfully design and
    implement these new systems and processes as planned, or if the
    implementation of these systems and processes is more costly
    than anticipated, our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations could be negatively impacted.


 



    Telecommunications
    companies and other large companies generally require more
    onerous terms and conditions of their vendors. As we seek to
    sell more products to such customers, we may be required to
    agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on
    our business or ability to recognize revenues.


 


    Telecommunications service provider companies and other large
    companies, because of their size, generally have greater
    purchasing power and, accordingly, have requested and received
    more favorable terms, which often translate into more onerous
    terms and conditions for their vendors. As we seek to sell more
    products to this class of customer, we may be required to agree
    to such terms and conditions, which may include terms that
    affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue and have
    an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and
    results of operations. Consolidation among such large customers
    can further increase their buying power and ability to require
    onerous terms.


 


    For example, many customers in this class have purchased
    products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver
    certain functionality
    and/or had
    products that caused problems or outages in the networks of
    these customers. As a result, this class of customers may
    request additional features from us and require substantial
    penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require
    substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused
    by our products. These additional requests and penalties, if we
    are required to agree to them, may require us to defer revenue
    recognition from such sales, which may negatively affect our
    business, financial condition, and results of operations.


 


    For arrangements with multiple elements, our accounting policies
    require vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of
    fair value of the undelivered to separate the components and to
    account for elements of the arrangement separately. VSOE of fair
    value is based on the price charged when the element is sold
    separately. However, customers may require terms and conditions
    that make it more difficult or impossible for us to maintain
    VSOE of fair value for the undelivered elements to a similar
    group of customers, the result of which could cause us





    
    18



Table of Contents





    to defer the entire arrangement fees for a similar group of
    customers (product, maintenance, professional services, etc.)
    and recognize revenue only when the last element is delivered,
    or if the only undelivered element is maintenance revenue, we
    would recognize revenue ratably over the contractual maintenance
    period, which is generally one year, but could be substantially
    longer.


 



    We
    expect gross margin to vary over time, and our recent level of
    product gross margin may not be sustainable.


 


    Our product gross margins will vary from
    quarter-to-quarter,
    and the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and
    may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors,
    including product mix shifts, increased price competition in one
    or more of the markets in which we compete, increases in
    material or labor costs, excess product component or
    obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, increased
    costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred
    due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not
    accurately anticipate product demand, warranty related issues,
    or our introduction of new products or entry into new markets
    with different pricing and cost structures.


 



    If we
    do not successfully anticipate market needs and opportunities,
    and develop products and product enhancements that meet those
    needs and opportunities, or if those products are not made
    available in a timely manner or do not gain market acceptance,
    we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to
    generate revenues will suffer.


 


    We cannot guarantee that we will be able to anticipate future
    market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new
    products or product enhancements to meet such needs or
    opportunities in a timely manner or at all. If we fail to
    anticipate market requirements or fail to develop and introduce
    new products or product enhancements to meet those needs in a
    timely manner, such failure could substantially decrease or
    delay market acceptance and sales of our present and future
    products, which would significantly harm our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to
    anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products and
    enhancements, there can be no assurance that new products or
    enhancements will achieve widespread market acceptance.


 


    For example, in 2008, we announced new products designed to
    address the Ethernet switching market, a market in which we had
    not had a historical presence. In addition, in 2009 we announced
    plans to develop and introduce new data center products with our
    Project Stratus and mobility solutions with our Project Falcon.
    If these or other new products do not gain market acceptance at
    a sufficient rate of growth, our ability to meet future
    financial targets and aspirations may be adversely affected. In
    addition, if we fail to deliver new or announced products to the
    market in a timely manner, it could adversely affect the market
    acceptance of those products and harm our competitive position
    and business and financial results.


 



    Changes
    in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from
    examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely
    affect our results.


 


    Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or
    adversely affected by: earnings being lower than anticipated in
    countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than
    anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory
    rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets
    and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax
    credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments related to certain
    acquisitions including the license of acquired intangibles under
    our intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement; by tax
    effects of stock-based compensation; by costs related to
    intercompany restructurings; or by changes in tax laws,
    regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof.
    In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our
    income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service
    (“IRS”) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess
    the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these
    examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for
    income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from
    these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition, and results of operations.


 


    For example, in 2009, we received a proposed adjustment from the
    IRS claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and
    possible penalties, for the 2004 tax year based on a transfer
    pricing transaction related to the license of acquired
    intangibles under an intercompany R&D cost sharing
    arrangement. As a result of the proposed





    
    19



Table of Contents





    adjustment, the incremental tax liability would be approximately
    $807.0 million excluding interest and penalties. We
    strongly believe the IRS’ position with regard to this
    matter is inconsistent with applicable tax laws and existing
    Treasury regulations, and that our previously reported income
    tax provision for the year in question is appropriate. However,
    there can be no assurance that this matter will be resolved in
    our favor. Regardless of whether this matter is resolved in our
    favor, the final resolution of this matter could be expensive
    and time-consuming to defend
    and/or
    settle. While we believe we have provided adequately for this
    matter, there is still a possibility that an adverse outcome of
    the matter could have a material effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.


 



    Governmental
    regulations affecting the import or export of products could
    negatively affect our revenues.


 


    The United States and various foreign governments have imposed
    controls, export license requirements, and restrictions on the
    import or export of some technologies, especially encryption
    technology. In addition, from time to time, governmental
    agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption
    technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental
    recovery of private encryption keys. Governmental regulation of
    encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or
    our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our
    products, could harm our international and domestic sales and
    adversely affect our revenues. In addition, failure to comply
    with such regulations could result in penalties, costs, and
    restrictions on export privileges.


 



    If we
    fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements, we
    could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays,
    which would harm our business.


 


    We provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. If we
    overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may
    assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory,
    each of which could negatively affect our gross margins.
    Conversely, because lead times for required materials and
    components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the
    specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each
    component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements,
    our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials,
    and/or
    components required to produce our products, which could
    increase costs or could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our
    products and result in delays in shipments and deferral or loss
    of revenues.


 



    We are
    dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers for
    several key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages
    or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face
    increased challenges in supply chain management in the
    future.


 


    During periods of high demand for electronic products, component
    shortages are possible, and the predictability of the
    availability of such components may be limited. Any future
    growth in our business and the economy is likely to create
    greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project
    overall component demand and to establish optimal component
    levels. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these
    components may increase, or the components may not be available
    at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at
    reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products
    in a timely manner, and our revenues and gross margins could
    suffer until other sources can be developed. For example, from
    time to time, including the first quarter of 2008, we have
    experienced component shortages that resulted in delays of
    product shipments. We currently purchase numerous key
    components, including ASICs, from single or limited sources. The
    development of alternate sources for those components is
    time-consuming, difficult, and costly. In addition, the lead
    times associated with certain components are lengthy and
    preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules. In
    the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from
    these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or
    second sources in a timely manner. If, as a result, we are
    unable to buy these components in quantities sufficient to meet
    our requirements on a timely basis, we will not be able to
    deliver product to our customers, which would seriously affect
    present and future sales, which would, in turn, adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, and results of operations.


 


    In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new
    products in the future may increase the complexity of supply
    chain management. Failure to effectively manage the supply of
    key components and products would adversely affect our business.




    
    20



Table of Contents






    We are
    dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have
    long-term supply contracts, and changes to those relationships,
    expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that
    could cause us to lose revenues and damage our customer
    relationships.


 


    We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which
    is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to
    manufacture our products. Although we have contracts with our
    contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to
    manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific
    quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is
    time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional
    contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we should
    fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer
    relationships or if one or more of them should experience
    delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in our
    manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add
    additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing
    sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be
    delayed. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or
    contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our
    supply chain management. Moreover, an increasing portion of our
    manufacturing is performed in China and other countries and is
    therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in
    other countries. Each of these factors could adversely affect
    our business, financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    We are
    a party to lawsuits, which are costly to defend and, if
    determined adversely to us, could require us to pay damages or
    prevent us from taking certain actions, any or all of which
    could harm our business, financial condition, and results of
    operations.


 


    We and certain of our current and former officers and current
    and former members of our Board of Directors are subject to
    various lawsuits. For example, we are a party to a number of
    patent infringement and other lawsuits. In addition, we have
    been served with lawsuits related to the alleged backdating of
    stock options and other related matters, a description of which
    can be found in Note 13, Commitments and
    Contingencies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    under the heading “Legal Proceedings.” There can be no
    assurance that these or any actions that have been or may be
    brought against us will be resolved in our favor or that
    tentative settlements will become final. Regardless of whether
    they are resolved in our favor, these lawsuits are, and any
    future lawsuits to which we may become a party will likely be,
    expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle,
    and/or
    resolve. Such costs of defense, as well as any losses resulting
    from these claims or settlement of these claims, could
    significantly increase our expenses and could harm our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    Litigation
    or claims regarding intellectual property rights may be
    time-consuming, expensive and require a significant amount of
    resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products
    non-infringing.


 


    Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims
    or initiate litigation related to patent, copyright, trademark,
    and other intellectual property rights to technologies and
    related standards that are relevant to our products. The
    asserted claims
    and/or
    initiated litigation may include claims against us or our
    manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of
    their proprietary rights with respect to our products.
    Regardless of the merit of these claims, they have been and can
    be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, and may require
    us to develop non-infringing technologies or enter into license
    agreements. Furthermore, because of the potential for high
    awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily
    predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled
    for significant amounts of money. If any infringement or other
    intellectual property claim made against us by any third party
    is successful, if we are required to settle litigation for
    significant amounts of money, or if we fail to develop
    non-infringing technology or license required proprietary rights
    on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 



    Our
    success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage
    our resources and restructure our business through rapidly
    fluctuating economic and market conditions.


 


    Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a
    rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning,
    forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively
    scale our business and adjust our business in response to
    fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. In periods of
    market expansion, we have increased





    
    21



Table of Contents





    investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount
    and increasing our investment in R&D and other parts of our
    business. Conversely, during 2009, in response to downward
    trending industry and market conditions, we restructured our
    business, rebalanced our workforce, and reduced our real estate
    portfolio. Many of our expenses, such as real estate expenses,
    cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted because of fluctuations in
    our business or numbers of employees. Moreover, rapid changes in
    the size of our workforce could adversely affect the ability to
    develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair
    our ability to realize our current or future business objectives.


 



    The
    long sales and implementation cycles for our products, as well
    as our expectation that some customers will sporadically place
    large orders with short lead times, may cause our revenues and
    operating results to vary significantly from
    quarter-to-quarter.


 


    A customer’s decision to purchase certain of our products
    involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy
    evaluation and product qualification process. As a result, the
    sales cycle may be lengthy. In particular, customers making
    critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of
    large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement
    processes that may delay or impact expected future orders.
    Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time
    educating and providing information to prospective customers
    regarding the use and benefits of our products. Even after
    making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our
    products slowly and deliberately. Timing of deployment can vary
    widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of
    the network deployment, the complexity of the customer’s
    network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating
    system configuration necessary to deploy the products. Customers
    with large networks usually expand their networks in large
    increments on a periodic basis. Accordingly, we may receive
    purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular
    basis. These long cycles, as well as our expectation that
    customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with
    short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to
    vary significantly and unexpectedly from
    quarter-to-quarter.


 



    We
    sell our products to customers that use those products to build
    networks and IP infrastructure, and if the demand for network
    and IP systems does not continue to grow, then our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations could be
    adversely affected.


 


    A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on
    the growth of secure IP infrastructure and on the deployment of
    our products by customers that depend on the continued growth of
    IP services. As a result of changes in the economy and capital
    spending or the building of network capacity in excess of
    demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected
    telecommunications service providers, spending on IP
    infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition, and results of
    operations. In addition, a number of our existing customers are
    evaluating the build out of their next generation networks.
    During the decision-making period when the customers are
    determining the design of those networks and the selection of
    the equipment they will use in those networks, such customers
    may greatly reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP
    infrastructure. Such pauses in purchases can make it more
    difficult to predict revenues from such customers, can cause
    fluctuations in the level of spending by these customers and,
    even where our products are ultimately selected, can have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    and results of operations.


 



    A
    breach of network security could harm public perception of our
    security products, which could cause us to lose
    revenues.


 


    If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in
    our network or in the network of a customer of our security
    products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to
    our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our
    products could be harmed. This could cause us to lose current
    and potential end-customers or cause us to lose current and
    potential value-added resellers and distributors. Because the
    techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage
    networks change frequently and generally are not recognized
    until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate
    these techniques.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    We are
    subject to risks arising from our international
    operations.


 


    We derive a majority of our revenues from our international
    operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in
    international markets in the future. We conduct significant
    sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly
    through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries
    throughout the world and depend on the operations of our
    contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located inside and
    outside of the United States. In addition, our R&D and our
    general and administrative (“G&A”) operations are
    conducted in the United States as well as other countries.


 


    As a result of our international operations, we are affected by
    economic, regulatory, social, and political conditions in
    foreign countries, including changes in general IT spending, the
    imposition of government controls, changes or limitations in
    trade protection laws, other regulatory requirements, which may
    affect our ability to import or export our products from various
    countries, service provider and government spending patterns
    affected by political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax
    treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor
    unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of
    intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism,
    political or social unrest, and difficulties in staffing and
    managing international operations. In particular, in some
    countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property
    protection. Any or all of these factors could have a material
    adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results
    of operations.


 


    Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ
    significantly from those in the United States. In many foreign
    countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it
    is common for others to engage in business practices that are
    prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or United
    States regulations applicable to us. Although we implement
    policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these
    laws and policies, there can be no assurance that none of our
    employees, contractors, and agents will take actions in
    violation of them. Violations of laws or key control policies by
    our employees, contractors, or agents could result in financial
    reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the
    importation or exportation of our products and could have a
    material adverse effect on our business.


 



    We are
    exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could
    negatively affect our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    Because a majority of our business is conducted outside the
    United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in
    non-U.S. currency
    exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business
    practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    The majority of our revenues and expenses are transacted in
    U.S. Dollars. We also have some transactions that are
    denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound,
    the Euro, Indian Rupee, and Japanese Yen related to our sales
    and service operations outside of the United States. An increase
    in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real
    cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside
    the United States in which we sell in U.S. Dollars, and a
    weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local
    operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the
    extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.


 


    Currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated
    with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional
    currencies and periodically will hedge anticipated foreign
    currency cash flows. The hedging activities undertaken by us are
    intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on
    certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. However,
    no amount of hedging can be effective against all circumstances,
    including long-term declines in the value of the
    U.S. Dollar. If our attempts to hedge against these risks
    are not successful, or if long-term declines in the value of the
    U.S. Dollar persist, our financial condition and results of
    operations could be adversely impacted.


 



    If we
    fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control
    and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and
    grow our business will be negatively affected.


 


    Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our
    business plan in a rapidly evolving market depends upon an
    effective planning and management process. We will need to
    continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our
    reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business
    effectively in the





    
    23



Table of Contents





    future. If we fail to continue to implement improved systems and
    processes, our ability to manage our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected.


 



    Our
    ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if
    we are unable to retain or hire key personnel.


 


    Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and
    marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified
    individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized
    technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service
    provider and enterprise markets, is limited and competition for
    such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key
    employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific
    term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the
    inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays
    in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales
    people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or
    training new employees, could delay the development and
    introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability
    to market, sell, or support our products.


 


    In addition, we rely upon equity compensation to help recruit,
    retain and motivate our employees. At our 2010 annual meeting of
    stockholders, we plan to ask our stockholders to authorize
    additional shares for grant under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan
    (the “2006 Plan”), which is the only plan under which
    we currently grant stock options, restricted stock units and
    performance shares to our employees. If more shares, or not
    enough shares, are not authorized by our stockholders for grant
    under the 2006 Plan, we will be significantly limited in our
    ability to grant equity awards to recruit new employees or to
    compensate existing employees, which would put us at a
    significant disadvantage to other companies that compete for
    workers in high technology industries such as ours. Accordingly,
    our ability to hire, retain, and motivate current and
    prospective employees would be harmed, the result of which could
    negatively impact our business operations.


 



    Our
    products are highly technical and if they contain undetected
    errors, our business could be adversely affected, and we may
    need to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with any
    alleged or actual failure of our products and
    services.


 


    Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to
    the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security
    products, provide and monitor network security and may protect
    valuable information. Our products have contained and may
    contain one or more undetected errors, defects, or security
    vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products may only be
    discovered after a product has been installed and used by
    end-customers. Any errors, defects, or security vulnerabilities
    discovered in our products after commercial release could result
    in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of
    customers, loss of future business, and increased service and
    warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, in
    the event an error, defect, or vulnerability is attributable to
    a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able
    to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that
    we may incur. In addition, we could face claims for product
    liability, tort, or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit,
    regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert
    management’s attention. In addition, if our business
    liability insurance coverage is inadequate, or future coverage
    is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial
    condition and results of operations could be harmed.


 



    If our
    products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks,
    installations will be delayed or cancelled and could harm our
    business.


 


    Our products are designed to interface with our customers’
    existing networks, each of which have different specifications
    and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other
    vendors. Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple
    generations of products that have been added over time as these
    networks have grown and evolved. Our products will be required
    to interoperate with many or all of the products within these
    networks as well as future products in order to meet our
    customers’ requirements. If we find errors in the existing
    software or defects in the hardware used in our customers’
    networks, we may need to modify our software or hardware to fix
    or overcome these errors so that our products will interoperate
    and scale with the existing software and hardware, which could
    be costly and negatively affect our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations. In addition, if our
    products do not interoperate with those of our customers’
    networks, demand for our products could be





    
    24



Table of Contents





    adversely affected or orders for our products could be
    cancelled. This could hurt our operating results, damage our
    reputation, and seriously harm our business and prospects.


 



    Integration
    of future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our
    financial condition and stock price and may dilute the ownership
    of our stockholders.


 


    We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to
    enhance our business. In 2005, we completed the acquisitions of
    five privately-held companies. Acquisitions involve numerous
    risks, including problems combining the purchased operations,
    technologies or products, unanticipated costs, diversion of
    management’s attention from our core businesses, adverse
    effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and
    customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we
    have no or limited prior experience, and potential loss of key
    employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies,
    or personnel that we might acquire. The integration of
    businesses that we may acquire is likely to be, a complex,
    time-consuming, and expensive process. Acquisitions may also
    require us to issue common stock that dilutes the ownership of
    our current stockholders, assume liabilities, record goodwill
    and amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to
    impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic
    impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to
    certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate
    write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of
    which could harm our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In addition, if we fail in any acquisition integration efforts
    and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization
    utilizing common information and communication systems,
    operating procedures, financial controls, and human resources
    practices, our business, financial condition, and results of
    operations may be adversely affected.


 



    Our
    products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party
    technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not
    continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our
    revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could
    be adversely affected.


 


    We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our
    products. From time to time, we may be required to license
    additional technology from third-parties to develop new products
    or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be
    available or continue to be available to us on commercially
    reasonable terms. Our inability to maintain or re-license any
    third-party licenses required in our products or our inability
    to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products
    and product enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute
    technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a
    greater cost, any of which could harm our business, financial
    condition, and results of operations.


 



    Matters
    related to the investigation into our historical stock option
    granting practices and the restatement of our financial
    statements have resulted in litigation and regulatory
    proceedings, and may result in additional litigation or other
    possible government actions.


 


    Our historical stock option granting practices and the
    restatement of our consolidated financial statements have
    exposed us to risks such as litigation, regulatory proceedings,
    and government enforcement actions. For more information
    regarding our current litigation and related inquiries, please
    see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of
    Part II of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    under the heading “Legal Proceedings” as well as the
    other risk factors related to litigation set forth in this
    section. We have provided the results of our internal review and
    independent investigation to the SEC and the United States
    Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California,
    and in that regard, we have responded to formal and informal
    requests for documents and additional information. In August
    2007, we announced that we entered into a settlement agreement
    with the SEC in connection with our historical stock option
    granting practices in which we consented to a permanent
    injunction against any future violations of the antifraud,
    reporting,
    books-and-records
    and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws.
    This settlement concluded the SEC’s formal investigation of
    the Company with respect to this matter. In addition, while we
    believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining
    the correct measurement dates for our stock option grants, the
    SEC may disagree with the manner in which we accounted for and
    reported, or did not report, the corresponding financial impact.
    We are also subject to





    
    25



Table of Contents





    civil litigation related to the stock option matters. In
    February 2009, we entered into an agreement in principle to
    settle the class action litigations claims related to our
    historical stock option granting practices. Under the proposed
    settlement, which is subject to the approval of the board of
    trustees of the lead plaintiffs and the court, the claims
    against us and our officers and directors will be dismissed with
    prejudice and released in exchange for a $169 million cash
    payment by us. No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes
    from litigation or other possible government actions. The
    resolution of these matters will be time-consuming, expensive,
    and may distract management from the conduct of our business and
    the related costs of defense, as well as any losses resulting
    from these claims or final settlement of these claims, could
    significantly increase our expenses and could harm our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    Our
    financial condition and results of operations could suffer if
    there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other
    intangible assets with indefinite lives.


 


    We are required to test annually and review on an interim basis,
    our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives,
    including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any
    future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. If
    such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the
    amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of
    the assets would be recognized. This would result in incremental
    expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or
    increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was
    determined to have occurred. For example, such impairment could
    occur if the market value of our common stock falls below
    certain levels for a sustained period, or if the portions of our
    business related to companies we have acquired fail to grow at
    expected rates or decline. In the second quarter of 2006, our
    impairment evaluation resulted in a reduction of
    $1,280.0 million to the carrying value of goodwill on our
    balance sheet for the SLT operating segment, primarily due to
    the decline in our market capitalization that occurred over a
    period of approximately nine months prior to the impairment
    review and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in the forecasted
    future cash flows used in the income approach. Recently, the
    turmoil in credit markets and the broader economy has
    contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global
    stock markets that have reduced the market price of many
    technology company stocks, including ours. Future declines in
    our stock price, as well as any marked decline in our level of
    revenues or gross margins, increase the risk that goodwill and
    intangible assets may become impaired in future periods. We
    cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any
    impairment of assets.


 



    While
    we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over
    financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation
    requiring companies to evaluate those internal
    controls.


 


    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our
    management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest
    to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and
    process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these
    requirements. We have and will continue to incur significant
    expenses and devote management resources to Section 404
    compliance on an ongoing basis. In the event that our chief
    executive officer (“CEO”), chief financial officer
    (“CFO”), or independent registered public accounting
    firm determine in the future that, our internal controls over
    financial reporting are not effective as defined under
    Section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected
    and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock.


 



    Regulation
    of the telecommunications industry could harm our operating
    results and future prospects.


 


    The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our
    business and financial condition could be adversely affected by
    changes in the regulations relating to the telecommunications
    industry. Currently, there are few laws or regulations that
    apply directly to access to or commerce on IP networks. We could
    be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce
    in any country where we operate. Such regulations could address
    matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption
    technology, and access charges for service providers. In
    addition, regulations have been adopted with respect to
    environmental matters, such as the WEEE and RoHS regulations
    adopted by the European Union, as well as regulations
    prohibiting government entities from purchasing security
    products that do not meet specified local certification
    criteria. Compliance with such regulations may be costly and
    time-consuming for us and our suppliers and partners. The
    adoption and implementation of such regulations could decrease
    demand for our products, and at the same time could increase the
    cost of building and





    
    26



Table of Contents





    selling our products as well as impact our ability to ship
    products into affected areas and recognize revenue in a timely
    manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    The
    investment of our cash balance and our investments in government
    and corporate debt securities are subject to risks, which may
    cause losses and affect the liquidity of these
    investments.


 


    At December 31, 2009, we had $1,604.7 million in cash
    and cash equivalents and $1,054.0 million in short- and
    long-term investments. We have invested these amounts primarily
    in U.S. government securities, government-sponsored
    enterprise obligations, foreign government debt securities,
    corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, and money market
    funds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are
    subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate
    risks, which may be exacerbated by
    U.S. sub-prime
    mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the
    financial markets and caused credit and liquidity issues. These
    market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a
    negative adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition,
    and results of operations.


 



    Uninsured
    losses could harm our operating results.


 


    We self-insure against many business risks and expenses, such as
    intellectual property litigation and our medical benefit
    programs, where we believe we can adequately self-insure against
    the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either
    not deemed cost-effective or is not available. We also maintain
    a program of insurance coverage for various types of property,
    casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with
    various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The types and
    amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and
    from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and
    our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are
    subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that
    result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance
    basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and
    unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B