ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS






The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could materially
 affect JPMorgan Chase’s financial condition and operations. Other factors that could affect the
Firm’s financial condition and operations are discussed in the “Forward-looking statements” section
on page 157. However, factors besides those discussed below, in MD&A or elsewhere in this or other
reports that JPMorgan Chase filed or furnished with the SEC, also could adversely affect the Firm.
Readers should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all potential
risks that could affect the Firm.


JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by
U.S. and international financial market and economic conditions.


JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are materially affected by economic and market conditions, including
the liquidity of the global financial markets; the level and volatility of debt and equity prices,
interest rates and currency and commodities prices;




investor sentiment; events that reduce
confidence in the financial markets; inflation and unemployment; the availability and cost of
capital and credit; the occurrence of natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism; and the health
of U.S. or international economies.


In the Firm’s wholesale businesses, the above-mentioned factors can affect transactions involving
the Firm’s underwriting and advisory businesses; the realization of cash returns from its private
equity business; the volume of transactions that the Firm executes for its customers and,
therefore, the revenue that the Firm receives from commissions and spreads; and the willingness of
financial sponsors or other investors to participate in loan syndications or underwritings managed
by the Firm.


The Firm generally maintains large positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity
markets, and from time to time the Firm may have trading positions that lack pricing transparency
or liquidity. The revenue derived from these positions is affected by many factors, including the
Firm’s success in effectively hedging its market and other risks, volatility in interest rates and
equity, debt and commodities, markets credit spreads, and availability of liquidity in the capital
markets, all of which are affected by economic and market conditions. The Firm anticipates that
revenue relating to its trading and private equity businesses will continue to experience
volatility, which will affect pricing or the ability to realize returns from such investments, and
that this could materially adversely affect the Firm’s earnings.


The fees that the Firm earns for managing third-party assets are also dependent upon general
economic conditions. For example, a higher level of U.S. or non-U.S. interest rates or a downturn
in securities markets could affect the valuations of the third-party assets that the Firm manages
or holds in custody, which, in turn, could affect the Firm’s revenue. Macroeconomic or market
concerns may also prompt outflows from the Firm’s funds or accounts. Moreover, even in the absence
of a market downturn, sub-par
 performance by the Firm’s investment management businesses could cause outflows of assets under
management and, therefore, reduce the fees that the Firm receives.



The Firm’s consumer businesses are particularly affected by domestic economic conditions, including
U.S. interest rates; the rate of unemployment; housing prices; the level of consumer confidence;
changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies. Any deterioration in these
conditions can diminish demand for the products and services of the Firm’s consumer businesses, or
increase the cost to provide such products and services. In addition, adverse economic conditions,
such as declines in home prices or persistent high levels of unemployment, could lead to an
increase in mortgage, credit card and other loan delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which
can reduce the Firm’s earnings.



If JPMorgan Chase does not effectively manage its liquidity, its business could suffer.


JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity is critical to its ability to operate its businesses. Some potential
conditions that could impair the Firm’s liquidity include markets that become illiquid or are
otherwise disrupted, unforeseen cash or capital requirements (including, among others, commitments
that may be triggered to special purpose entities (“SPEs”) or other entities), difficulty in
selling or




5




Table of Contents




Part I










inability to sell assets, unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral, and lack of market
or customer confidence in the Firm or financial markets in general. These conditions may be caused
by events over which the Firm has little or no control. The widespread crisis in investor
confidence and resulting liquidity crisis experienced in 2008 and into early 2009 increased the
Firm’s cost of funding and limited its access to some of its traditional sources of liquidity such
as securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, credit card receivables and other assets, and
there is no assurance that these conditions could not occur in the future.



The credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. are
important to maintaining the Firm’s liquidity. A reduction in their credit ratings could reduce the
Firm’s access to debt markets or materially increase the cost of issuing debt, trigger additional
collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing
or permitted, contractually or otherwise, to do business with or lend to the Firm, thereby
curtailing the Firm’s business operations and reducing its profitability. Reduction in the ratings
of certain SPEs or other entities to which the Firm has funding or other commitments could also
impair the Firm’s liquidity where such ratings changes lead, directly or indirectly, to the Firm
being required to purchase assets or otherwise provide funding.


Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream,
strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources,
and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures. Although the Firm closely monitors and manages
factors influencing its credit ratings, there is no assurance that such ratings will not be lowered
in the future. Such downgrades may come at times
 of broader market instability, when the Firm’s options for responding to events are more limited
and general investor confidence is low.



As a holding company, JPMorgan Chase & Co. relies on the earnings of its subsidiaries for its cash
flow and, consequently, its ability to pay dividends and satisfy its debt and other obligations.
These payments by subsidiaries may take the form of dividends, loans or other payments. Several of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s principal subsidiaries are subject to capital adequacy requirements or other
regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to provide such payments. Limitations in
the payments that JPMorgan Chase & Co. receives from its subsidiaries could reduce its liquidity
position.


Some global regulators have proposed legislation or regulations requiring large banks to
incorporate a separate subsidiary in every country in which they operate, and to maintain
independent capital and liquidity for such subsidiaries. If adopted, these requirements could
decrease the Firm’s ability to manage and increase the risk of its liquidity positions.


JPMorgan Chase operates within a highly regulated industry and the Firm’s business and results are
significantly affected by the laws and regulations to which it is subject, including
recently-adopted legislation and regulations.


JPMorgan Chase is subject to regulation under state and federal laws in the United States, as well
as the applicable laws of each















of the various other jurisdictions outside the United States in
which the Firm does business. These laws and regulations affect the way that the Firm does
business, may restrict the scope of its existing businesses, limit its ability to expand its
product offerings or pursue acquisitions, or make offering its products to clients more expensive.


Extensive legislation affecting the financial services industry has recently been adopted in the
United States and in other jurisdictions, and regulations are in the process of being implemented.
In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was adopted in
2010 and will effect significant structural reforms to the financial services industry. This
legislation provides for, among other things: the establishment of a Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection which will have broad authority to regulate the credit, savings, payment and other
consumer financial products and services that the Firm offers; the creation of a structure to
regulate systemically important financial companies, and provide regulators with the power to
require such companies to sell or transfer assets and terminate activities if the regulators
determine that the size or scope of activities of the company pose a threat to the safety and
soundness of the company or the financial stability of the United States; more comprehensive
regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, including providing for higher capital and
margin requirements, the central clearing of standardized over-the-counter derivatives, and
heightened supervision of all over-the-counter derivatives dealers and major market participants,
including the Firm; so-called “push out” provisions that could require the Firm to significantly
restructure or restrict its derivatives businesses, change the legal entities through which such
businesses are conducted, or limit the Firm’s ability to manage collateral, margin and other risks;
prohibitions on the Firm engaging in certain proprietary trading activities and restricting its ownership of,
investment in or sponsorship of, hedge funds and private equity funds; restrictions on the
interchange fees that the Firm earns on debit card transactions; and a requirement that bank
regulators phase out the treatment of trust preferred capital debt securities as Tier 1 capital for
regulatory capital purposes.


The European Union (“EU”) has created a European Systemic Risk Board to monitor financial stability
and implemented rules that will increase capital requirements for certain trading instruments or
exposures and impose compensation limits on certain employees located in affected countries. In
addition, the EU Commission is considering a wide array of other initiatives, including new
legislation that will affect derivatives trading, impose surcharges on “globally” systemically
important firms and possibly impose new levies on bank balance sheets.


The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision announced in December 2010 revisions to its Capital
Accord, which will require higher capital ratio requirements for banks, narrow the definition of
capital, and introduce short term liquidity and term funding standards, among other things. Also
being considered is the imposition of a bank surcharge on institutions that are determined to be
“globally significant financial institutions”. These requirements could increase the Firm’s funding
and operational costs.












6




Table of Contents
















These and any additional legislative or regulatory actions in the United States or other countries, and any
required changes to the Firm’s business operations resulting from such legislation and regulations,
could result in significant loss of revenue, limit the Firm’s ability to pursue business
opportunities in which it might otherwise consider engaging, affect the value of assets that the
Firm holds, require the Firm to increase its prices and therefore reduce demand for its products,
impose additional costs on the Firm, or otherwise adversely affect the Firm’s businesses.
Accordingly, the Firm cannot provide assurance that any such new legislation or regulations would
not have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations or financial condition in the
future.


If the Firm does not comply with current or future legislation and regulations that apply to its
operations, the Firm may be subject to fines, penalties or material restrictions on its businesses
in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred. In recent years, regulatory oversight and
enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and increasing the potential
risks associated with the Firm’s operations. As this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely
affect the Firm’s operations and, in turn, its financial results.


The financial condition of JPMorgan Chase’s customers, clients and counterparties, including other
financial institutions, could adversely affect the Firm.


If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more of JPMorgan Chase’s customers may
become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to the Firm which, in turn, could result in a
higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, or in requirements that the Firm
purchase assets from or provide other funding to its clients
and counterparties, any of which could adversely affect the Firm’s financial condition. Moreover, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of the Firm’s counterparties could lead to
concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry,
thereby exacerbating the Firm’s credit risk exposure, and increasing the losses (including
mark-to-market losses) that the Firm could incur in its trading and clearing businesses.


Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or
other relationships. The Firm routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial
services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and
hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Firm to credit
risk in the event of a default by the counterparty or client, which can be exacerbated during
periods of market illiquidity. During such periods, the Firm’s credit risk also may be further
increased when the collateral held by the Firm cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices
that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to
the Firm. In addition, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly
increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Periods of illiquidity, as experienced in 2008
and early 2009, may occur again and could produce losses if the Firm is unable to realize upon
collateral or manage declines in the value of collateral.













Concentration of credit and market risk could increase the potential for significant losses.


JPMorgan Chase has exposure to increased levels of risk when customers are engaged in similar
business activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar economic
features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by
changes in economic conditions. As a result, the Firm regularly monitors various segments of its
portfolio exposures to assess potential concentration risks. The Firm’s efforts to diversify or
hedge its credit portfolio against concentration risks may not be successful.


In addition, increased concentration within the Firm’s securities or loan portfolios, or in other
positions that the Firm may hold, may occur for reasons outside of the Firm’s control. Disruptions
in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in the Firm’s inability to
sell, syndicate or realize upon its positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. The
inability to reduce the Firm’s positions not only increases the market and credit risks associated
with such positions, but also increases the level of risk-weighted assets on the Firm’s balance
sheet, thereby increasing its capital requirements and funding costs, all of which could adversely
affect the operations and profitability of the Firm’s businesses.




JPMorgan Chase’s framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to
the Firm.



JPMorgan Chase’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to the Firm. The Firm
has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze
the types of risk to which the Firm is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk,
interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and fiduciary risk, reputational risk and private
equity risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent
limitations to the Firm’s risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the
future, risks that the Firm has not appropriately anticipated or identified. If the Firm’s risk
management framework proves ineffective, the Firm could suffer unexpected losses and could be
materially adversely affected. As the Firm’s businesses change and grow and the markets in which
they operate continue to evolve, the Firm’s risk management framework may not always keep
sufficient pace with those changes. As a result, there is the risk that the credit and market risks
associated with new products or new business strategies may not be appropriately identified,
monitored or managed. In addition, in a difficult or less liquid market environment, the Firm’s
risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be attempting
to use the same or similar strategies to deal with the challenging market conditions. In such
circumstances, it may be difficult for the Firm to reduce its risk positions due to the activity of
such other market participants.


The Firm’s products, including loans, leases, lending commitments, derivatives, trading account
assets and assets held-for-sale, expose the Firm to credit risk. As one of the nation’s largest
lenders, the Firm has exposures arising from its many different products and counterparties, and
the credit quality of the Firm’s exposures can have a significant impact on its earnings. The Firm
establishes reserves for probable credit losses












7




Table of Contents



Part I










inherent in its credit exposure (including unfunded
lending commitments). The Firm also employs stress testing and other methods to determine the
capital and liquidity necessary to protect the Firm in the event of adverse economic or market
events. These processes are critical to the Firm’s financial results and condition, and require
difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how economic conditions might
impair the ability of the Firm’s borrowers and counterparties to repay their loans or other
obligations. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that the Firm
will fail to identify the proper factors or that the Firm will fail to accurately estimate the
impact of factors that it identifies.


JPMorgan Chase’s trading businesses may expose the Firm to unexpected market, credit and
operational risks that could cause the Firm to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset
values, unanticipated credit events, or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously
uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa) may create losses resulting from risks
not appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a trading
instrument such as a derivative. Certain of the Firm’s derivative transactions require the physical
settlement by delivery of securities, commodities or obligations that the Firm does not own; if the
Firm is unable to obtain such securities, commodities or obligations within the required timeframe
for delivery, this could cause the Firm to forfeit payments otherwise due to it and could result in
settlement delays, which could damage the Firm’s reputation and ability to transact future
business. In addition, in situations where trades are not settled or confirmed on a timely
 basis, the Firm may be subject to heightened credit and operational risk, and in the event of a
default, the Firm may be exposed to market and operational losses. In particular, disputes
regarding the terms or the settlement procedures of derivatives contracts could arise, which could
force the Firm to incur unexpected costs, including transaction, legal and litigation costs, and
impair the Firm’s ability to manage effectively its risk exposure from these products.


Many of the Firm’s hedging strategies and other risk management techniques have a basis in
historical market behavior, and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on
management’s subjective judgment. For example, many models used by the Firm are based on
assumptions regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market
indicators. In times of market stress, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances,
previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely, previously correlated
indicators may make unrelated movements. These sudden market movements or unanticipated or
unidentified market or economic movements have in some circumstances limited the effectiveness of
the Firm’s risk management strategies, causing the Firm to incur losses. The Firm cannot provide
assurance that its risk management framework, including the Firm’s underlying assumptions or
strategies, will at all times be accurate and effective.


JPMorgan Chase’s operations are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable economic, monetary,
political, legal and other developments in the United States and around the world.

















JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies that are
adopted by various U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory authorities and agencies. The Federal Reserve Board
regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its policies determine in large
part the cost of funds for lending and investing in the United States and the return earned on
those loans and investments. The market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the
value of financial assets that the Firm holds, such as mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). Federal
Reserve Board policies also can adversely affect the Firm’s borrowers and counterparties,
potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their
obligations to the Firm. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies (as well as the fiscal and
monetary policies of non-U.S. central banks or regulatory authorities and agencies) are beyond the
Firm’s control and, consequently, the impact of changes in these policies on the Firm’s activities
and results of operations is difficult to predict.


The Firm’s businesses and revenue are also subject to risks inherent in investing and trading in
securities of companies worldwide. These risks include, among others, risk of loss from unfavorable
political, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, expropriation,
nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and
changes in laws and regulations. Crime, corruption, war or military actions, acts of terrorism and
a lack of an established legal and regulatory framework are additional challenges in certain
emerging markets.




Revenue from international operations and trading in non-U.S. securities and other obligations may
be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above considerations. The impact of these
fluctuations could be accentuated as some trading markets are smaller, less liquid and more
volatile than larger markets. Also, any of the above-mentioned events or circumstances in one
country can, and has in the past, affected the Firm’s operations and investments in another country
or countries, including the Firm’s operations in the United States. As a result, any such
unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on the Firm’s business and
results of operations.


Several of the Firm’s businesses engage in transactions with, or trade in obligations of, U.S. and
non-U.S. governmental entities, including national, state, provincial, municipal and local
authorities. These activities can expose the Firm to enhanced sovereign, credit-related,
operational and reputational risks, including the risks that a governmental entity may default on
or restructure its obligations or may claim that actions taken by government officials were beyond
the legal authority of those officials, which could adversely affect the Firm’s financial condition
and results of operations.


Further, various countries in which the Firm operates or invests, or in which the Firm may do so in
the future, have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions particular to that country or
region, including extreme currency fluctuations, high inflation, or low or negative growth, among
other negative conditions. In 2010, concerns were raised about certain European countries,
including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, regarding perceived weaknesses in their
economic and fiscal





8




Table of Contents















condition, and how such weaknesses might affect other economies as well as
financial institutions, including the Firm, which lent funds to or did business with or in those
countries. There is always the chance that economic disruptions in other countries, even in
countries in which the Firm does not conduct business or have operations, will adversely affect the
Firm.


JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations may be adversely affected by loan repurchase and indemnity
obligations.


In connection with the sale and securitization of loans (whether with or without recourse), the
originator is generally required to make a variety of representations and warranties regarding both
the originator and the loans being sold or securitized. JPMorgan Chase and some of its
subsidiaries, including those acquired through the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual
transaction, have made such representations and warranties in connection with the sale and
securitization of loans, and the Firm will continue to do so when it securitizes loans it has
originated. If a loan that does not comply with such representations or warranties is sold or
securitized, the Firm may be obligated to repurchase the loan and incur any associated loss
directly, or the Firm may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such losses. In 2010,
the costs of repurchasing mortgage loans that had been sold to government agencies such as Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac (the “GSEs”) increased substantially, and there is no assurance that such costs
could not continue to increase substantially in the future. Accordingly, repurchase
 or indemnity obligations to the GSEs or to private third-party purchasers could materially and
adversely affect the Firm’s results of operations and earnings in the future.



The repurchase liability that the Firm records with respect to its loan repurchase obligations is
estimated based on several factors, including the level of current and estimated probable future
repurchase demands made by purchasers, the Firm’s ability to cure the defects identified in the
repurchases demands, and the severity of loss upon repurchase or foreclosure. While the Firm
believes that its current repurchase liability reserves are adequate, the factors referred to above
are subject to change in light of market developments, the economic environment and other
circumstances. Accordingly, such reserves may be increased in the future.


The Firm also faces litigation related to securitizations, primarily related to securitizations not
sold to the GSEs. The Firm separately evaluates its exposure to such litigation in establishing its
litigation reserves. While the Firm believes that its current reserves in respect of such
litigation matters are adequate, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be
increased in the future.


JPMorgan Chase may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that it satisfies requirements
relating to mortgage foreclosures.


In late September 2010, JPMorgan Chase commenced implementation of a temporary suspension of
obtaining mortgage foreclosure judgments in the states and territories that require a judicial
foreclosure process. Subsequently, the Firm extended this temporary suspension to foreclosure sales
in those states and territories that require a judicial foreclosure process, and to foreclosures
and foreclosure sales in the majority of remaining

















states where a judicial process is not required,
but where an affidavit signed by Firm personnel may have been used as part of the foreclosure
process. In mid-October, the Firm also temporarily suspended evictions in the states and
territories in which the Firm had suspended foreclosures and foreclosure sales, as well as in
certain additional states in which an affidavit signed by Firm personnel may have been used in
connection with eviction proceedings.


This temporary suspension arose out of questions about affidavits of indebtedness prepared by local
foreclosure counsel, signed by Firm employees, and filed or used in mortgage foreclosure
proceedings in certain states. Based on the Firm’s work to date, the Firm believes that the
information in those affidavits of indebtedness about the fact of default and amount of
indebtedness was materially accurate. However, the underlying review and verification of this
information was performed by personnel other than the affiants, or the affidavits may not have been
properly notarized. The Firm has since resumed filing new foreclosure actions in most of the states
in which the Firm had previously halted such actions, using revised procedures in connection with
the execution of the affidavits and other documents that may be used in the foreclosure process,
and the Firm intends to resume filing new foreclosure actions in all remaining states. The Firm is
also in the process of reviewing pending foreclosure matters to determine whether the remediation
of previously filed affidavits or other documents is necessary, and the Firm
 intends to resume pending foreclosure proceedings as the review, and if necessary, remediation, of
each pending matter is completed.



The Firm expects to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with its efforts to correct
and enhance its mortgage foreclosure procedures. Multiple state and federal officials have announced
investigations into the procedures followed by mortgage servicing companies and banks, including
JPMorgan Chase and its affiliates,
relating to foreclosure
and loss mitigation processes.
The Firm is
cooperating with these investigations,
and these investigations could result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies
(including requiring default servicing or other process changes), or other enforcement actions, as well as significant
legal costs in responding to governmental investigations and additional litigation.
The Firm cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters or the impact that they could have on the Firm’s financial results.


JPMorgan Chase’s commodities activities are subject to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic
events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose the Firm to significant cost and
liability.


JPMorgan Chase engages in the storage, transportation, marketing or trading of several commodities,
including metals, agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power,
emission credits, coal, freight, and related products and indices. The Firm is also engaged in
power generation and has invested in companies engaged in wind energy and in sourcing, developing
and trading emission reduction credits. As a result of all of these activities, the Firm is subject
to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, and other governmental laws and
regulations. The Firm expects laws and regulations affecting its commodities activities to expand
in scope and complexity, and to restrict some of the Firm’s activities, which could result in lower
revenues from the Firm’s commodities





9




Table of Contents




Part I










activities. In addition, the Firm may incur substantial costs
in complying with current or future laws and regulations, and the failure to comply with these laws
and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. Furthermore,
liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations
for remediation of contaminations.


The Firm’s commodities activities also further expose the Firm to the risk of unforeseen and
catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic
substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in
personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, damage to the Firm’s reputation and suspension of
operations. The Firm’s commodities activities are also subject to disruptions, many of which are
outside of the Firm’s control, from the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment,
transmission lines or other equipment or processes, and the contractual failure of performance by
third-party suppliers or service providers, including the failure to obtain and deliver raw
materials necessary for the operation of power generation facilities. The Firm’s actions to
mitigate its risks related to the above-mentioned considerations may not prove adequate to address
every contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and
the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect
to particular incidents. As a result, the Firm’s financial condition and results of operations may
be adversely affected by such events.




Damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could damage its businesses.


Maintaining trust in JPMorgan Chase is critical to the Firm’s ability to attract and maintain
customers, investors and employees. Damage to the Firm’s reputation can therefore cause significant
harm to the Firm’s business and prospects. Harm to the Firm’s reputation can arise from numerous
sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, compliance failures, litigation or
regulatory outcomes or governmental investigations. In addition, a failure to deliver appropriate
standards of service and quality, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients
fairly, can result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all
of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to reputation for the Firm.
Adverse publicity regarding the Firm, whether or not true, may result in harm to the Firm’s
prospects. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of or
individuals in the industry can also affect the Firm’s reputation. For example, the role played by
financial services firms in the financial crisis, including concerns that consumers have been
treated unfairly by financial institutions, has damaged the reputation of the industry as a whole.
Should any of these or other events or factors that can undermine the Firm’s reputation occur,
there is no assurance that the additional costs and expenses that the Firm may need to incur to
address the issues giving rise to the reputational harm could not adversely affect the Firm’s
earnings and results of operations.


Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as the Firm
continues to expand its business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and












interests with and among the Firm’s clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived
failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to
deal with the Firm, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, as well as cause serious
reputational harm to the Firm.


JPMorgan Chase relies on its systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures
could materially adversely affect the Firm’s operations.


JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are dependent on the Firm’s ability to process, record and monitor a
large number of complex transactions. If the Firm’s financial, accounting, or other data processing
systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Firm could be materially adversely
affected. The Firm is similarly dependent on its employees. The Firm could be materially adversely
affected if one of its employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as
a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates
the Firm’s operations or systems. Third parties with which the Firm does business could also be
sources of operational risk to the Firm, including relating to breakdowns or failures of such
parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish the Firm’s ability to
operate one or more of its businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, increased
operating expenses, higher litigation costs (including fines and sanctions), reputational
 damage, regulatory intervention or weaker competitive standing, any of which could materially
adversely affect the Firm.




If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Firm’s
possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Firm could suffer significant regulatory
consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include
circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not
permitted to have the information, either by fault of the Firm’s systems, employees, or
counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by
third parties.


The Firm may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly
or partially beyond the Firm’s control, which may include, for example, computer viruses,
electrical or telecommunications outages, failures of computer servers or other damage to the
Firm’s property or assets; natural disasters; health emergencies or pandemics; or events arising
from local or larger scale political events, including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give
rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to the Firm.


In a firm as large and complex as JPMorgan Chase, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over
financial reporting may occur from time to time, and there is no assurance that significant
deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. As processes
are changed, or new products and services are introduced, the Firm may not fully appreciate or
identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. In addition, there is the risk
that the Firm’s controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems
could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could adversely affect the Firm’s business and
results of operations by






10




Table of Contents














requiring the Firm to expend significant resources to correct the defect,
as well as by exposing the Firm to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered
by insurance.


JPMorgan Chase faces significant legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings
and from private actions brought against the Firm.


JPMorgan Chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in various legal proceedings,
including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as
investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. Actions brought against the Firm may
result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to the Firm, which
could materially adversely affect the Firm’s business, financial condition or results of
operations, or cause serious reputational harm to the Firm. As a participant in the financial
services industry, it is likely that the Firm will continue to experience a high level of
litigation and regulatory scrutiny and investigations related to its businesses and operations.


The financial services industry is highly competitive, and JPMorgan Chase’s inability to compete
successfully may adversely affect its results of operations.


JPMorgan Chase operates in a highly competitive environment and the Firm expects competitive
conditions to continue to intensify as continued consolidation in the financial services industry
produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of
offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices.


Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks,
hedge funds, commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund
companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities
processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other
Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies.
Technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository
institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for
financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and Internet-based financial
solutions, including electronic securities trading. The Firm’s businesses generally compete on the
basis of the quality and variety of the Firm’s products and services, transaction execution,
innovation, reputation and price. Ongoing or increased competition in any one or all of these areas
may put downward pressure on prices for the Firm’s products and services or may cause the Firm to
lose market share. Increased competition also may require the Firm to make additional capital
investments in its businesses in order to remain competitive. These investments may increase
expense or may require the Firm to extend more of its capital on behalf of clients in order to
execute larger, more competitive transactions. The Firm cannot provide assurance that the
significant competition in the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect its
future results of operations.







JPMorgan Chase’s acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses may not result in all of
the benefits anticipated.














JPMorgan Chase has in the past and may in the future seek to expand its business by acquiring other
businesses. There can be no assurance that the Firm’s acquisitions will have the anticipated
positive results, including results relating to: the total cost of integration; the time required
to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; the overall performance of the
combined entity; or an improved price for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s common stock. Integration efforts
could divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect the Firm’s operations
or results. The Firm cannot provide assurance that any integration efforts in connection with
acquisitions already consummated or any new acquisitions would not result in the occurrence of
unanticipated costs or losses.


Acquisitions may also result in business disruptions that cause the Firm to lose customers or cause
customers to move their business to competing financial institutions. It is possible that the
integration process related to acquisitions could result in the disruption of the Firm’s ongoing
businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely
affect the Firm’s ability to maintain relationships with
 clients, customers, depositors and other business partners. The loss of key employees in connection
with an acquisition could adversely affect the Firm’s ability to successfully conduct its business.


JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of
its business, and failure to do so may materially adversely affect the Firm’s performance.


JPMorgan Chase’s employees are the Firm’s most important resource, and in many areas of the
financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. The imposition on the
Firm or its employees of certain existing and proposed restrictions or taxes on executive
compensation may adversely affect the Firm’s ability to attract and retain qualified senior
management and employees. If the Firm is unable to continue to retain and attract qualified
employees, the Firm’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially
adversely affected.


JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if
incorrect, could cause unexpected losses in the future.


Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, JPMorgan Chase is
required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including
in determining credit loss reserves, mortgage repurchase liability and reserves related to
litigations, among other items. Certain of the Firm’s financial instruments, including trading
assets and liabilities, available-for-sale securities, certain loans, MSRs, private equity
investments, structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items,
require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare the Firm’s financial statements.
Where quoted market prices are not available, the Firm may make fair value determinations based on
internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management
judgment. Some of these and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price
levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, as they are based on significant estimation
and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans













11




Table of Contents




Part I






and
securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the
possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment. If assumptions or
estimates underlying the Firm’s financial statements are incorrect, the Firm may experience
material losses.




ITEM 1B