ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS



The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could materially
affect our financial condition and operations. Other factors that could affect our financial
condition and operations are discussed in the “Forward-looking statements” section on page 115.
However, factors besides those discussed below, in MD&A or
elsewhere in this or other reports that we filed or furnished with the SEC, also could adversely
affect us. You should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all
potential risks that could affect us.








4




Table of Contents






Our
results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by U.S. and
international financial market and economic conditions.
Our businesses have been, and in the future will continue to be, materially affected by economic
and market conditions, including factors such as the liquidity of the global financial markets; the
level and volatility of debt and equity prices, interest rates and currency and commodities prices;
investor sentiment; corporate or other scandals that reduce confidence in the financial markets;
inflation; the availability and cost of capital and credit; the occurrence of natural disasters,
acts of war or terrorism; and the degree to which U.S. or international economies are expanding or
experiencing recessionary pressures. These factors can affect, among other things, the activity
level of clients with respect to the size, number and timing of transactions involving our
investment and commercial banking businesses, including our underwriting and advisory businesses;
the realization of cash returns from our private equity and principal investments businesses; the
volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, the revenue we receive
from commissions and spreads; the number or size of underwritings we manage on behalf of clients;
and the willingness of financial sponsors or other investors to participate in loan syndications or
underwritings managed by us.


We generally maintain large trading portfolios in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity
markets and we may have from time to time significant investment positions, including positions in
securities in markets that lack pricing transparency or liquidity. The revenue derived from
mark-to-market values of our businesses are affected by many factors, including our credit
standing; our success in proprietary positioning; volatility in interest rates and equity, debt and
commodities markets; credit spreads and availability of liquidity in the capital markets; and other
economic and business factors. We anticipate that revenue relating to our trading and principal
investment businesses will continue to experience volatility and there can be no assurance that
such volatility relating to the above factors or other conditions that may affect pricing or our
ability to realize returns from such investments could not materially adversely affect our
earnings.


The fees we earn for managing third-party assets are also dependent upon general economic
conditions. For example, a higher level of U.S. or non-U.S. interest rates or a downturn in trading
markets could affect the valuations of the third-party assets we manage or hold in custody, which,
in turn, could affect our revenue. Moreover, even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market
or sub-par performance by our investment management businesses could result in outflows of assets
under management and supervision and, therefore, reduce the fees that we receive.


Our consumer businesses are particularly affected by domestic economic conditions. Such conditions
include U.S. interest rates; the rate of unemployment; housing prices; the level of consumer
confidence; changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others.
The deterioration of these conditions can diminish demand for the consumer businesses’ products and
services, or increase the cost to provide such products and services. In addition, adverse economic
conditions, such as declines in home prices, could lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan
delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings.


During 2008, U.S. and global financial markets were extremely volatile and were materially and
adversely affected by a significant lack of liquidity, loss of confidence in the financial




sector,
disruptions in the credit markets, reduced business activity, rising unemployment, declining home
prices, and erosion of consumer confidence. These factors contributed to adversely affecting our
business, financial condition and results of operations in 2008 and there is no assurance when such
conditions will ameliorate.


If we do not effectively manage our liquidity, our business could be negatively affected.
Our liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses, grow and be profitable. Some
potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include illiquid or volatile
markets, diminished access to capital markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements (including,
among others, commitments that may be triggered to special purpose entities (“SPEs”) or other
entities), difficulty or inability to sell assets, unforeseen
outflows of cash or collateral, and lack of market or customer
confidence in us or our prospects.
These conditions may be caused by events over which we have little or no control. The liquidity
crisis experienced in 2008 increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our
traditional sources of liquidity such as securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, loans,
credit card receivables and other assets. If current market conditions continue, our liquidity
could be adversely affected.


The credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. are
important in order to maintain our liquidity. A reduction in their credit ratings could have an
adverse effect on our access to
liquidity sources, increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding
requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us,
thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing our profitability. Reduction in the ratings
of certain SPEs or other entities to which we have a funding or other commitment could also
negatively affect our liquidity where such ratings changes lead, directly or indirectly, to us
being required to purchase assets or otherwise provide funding. Critical factors in maintaining
high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong
credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, and disciplined liquidity
monitoring procedures.


Our cost of obtaining long-term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the
amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities (or other benchmark securities)
of the same maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). Increases in our credit spreads
can significantly increase the cost of this funding. Changes in credit spreads are continuous and
market-driven, and influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. As such, our credit
spreads may be unpredictable and highly volatile.


As a holding company, we rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries for our cash flow and consequent
ability to pay dividends and satisfy our obligations. These payments by subsidiaries may take the
form of dividends, loans or other payments. Several of our principal subsidiaries are subject to
capital adequacy requirements or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to
provide such payments. Limitations in the payments we receive from our subsidiaries could
negatively affect our liquidity position.


The soundness of our customers, clients and counterparties, including other financial institutions,
could adversely affect us.
A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments,
derivatives, trading account assets and assets held-for-sale. As one of the nation’s largest
lenders, we have exposures to many different





5




Table of Contents



Part I



products
and counterparties, and the credit quality of
our exposures can have a significant impact on our earnings. We estimate and establish reserves for
credit risks and potential credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded
lending commitments). This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition,
requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how these economic
conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any
such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or
that we will fail to accurately estimate the impact of factors that we identify. Any such failure
could result in increases in delinquencies and default rates.


Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or
other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial
services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and
hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk
in the event of default by the counterparty or client, which can be exacerbated during periods of
market illiquidity, such as experienced in 2008. During such periods, our credit risk also may be
further increased when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices
that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. In
addition, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly increases in
times of market stress and illiquidity. There is no assurance that any such losses would not
materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings.


As an example of the risks associated with our relationships with other financial institutions is
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“LBHI”). On September 15, 2008, LBHI filed a
voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the
“Bankruptcy Code”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York, and
thereafter several of its subsidiaries also filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11
of the Bankruptcy Code in the court (LBHI and such subsidiaries collectively, “Lehman”). On
September 19, 2008, a liquidation case under the Securities Investor Protection Act was commenced
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for Lehman Brothers Inc.
(“LBI”), LBHI’s U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, and the court now presides over the LBI SIPA
liquidation case. We were LBI’s clearing bank and are the largest secured creditor in the Lehman
and LBI cases, according to Lehman’s schedules. We anticipate that claims may be asserted against us
and/or our security interests, including by the LBHI Creditors Committee, the SIPA Trustee
appointed in the LBI liquidation case, the principal acquiror of LBI’s assets, and others in
connection with Lehman and LBI cases. We intend to defend ourself against any such claims.


As a result of the current economic environment there is a greater likelihood that more of our
customers or counterparties could become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to us
which, in turn, could result in a higher level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, or
requirements that we purchase assets or provide other funding, any of which could adversely affect
our financial condition. Moreover, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our
counterparties could lead to concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same
industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure, and increasing the losses, including
mark-to-market losses, we could incur in our trading, clearing, and proprietary businesses.


Concentration of credit and market risk could increase the potential for significant losses.
We have exposure to increased levels of risk when a number of customers are engaged in similar
business activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar economic
features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by
changes in economic conditions. We regularly monitor various segments of our portfolio exposures to
assess potential concentration risks. Our efforts to diversify or hedge our credit portfolio
against concentration risks may not be successful and any concentration of credit risk could
increase the potential for significant losses in our credit portfolio. In addition, disruptions in
the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell,
syndicate or realize upon securities, loans or other instruments or positions held by us,
thereby leading to increased concentrations



of such positions. These concentrations could expose us to
losses if the mark-to-market value of the securities, loans or other instruments or positions
decline causing us to take write downs. Moreover, the inability to reduce our positions not only
increases the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increases the level
of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements and
funding costs, all of which could adversely affect our
businesses’ operations and profitability.


Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.

Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes
and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to
which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk,
operational risk, legal and fiduciary risk, reputational risk and private equity risk, among
others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk
management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not
appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we
could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.


Our risk management strategies may not be effective because in a difficult or less liquid market
environment other market participants may be attempting to use the same or similar strategies to
deal with the difficult market conditions. In such circumstances, it may be difficult for us to
reduce our risk positions due to the activity of such other market participants.

Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that
could cause us to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit
events, or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become
correlated may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into account in the
development, structuring or pricing of a derivative instrument. In addition, certain of our
derivative transactions require the physical settlement by delivery of securities, commodities or
obligations that we do now own; if we are not able to obtain such securities, commodities or
obligations within the required timeframe for delivery, this could cause us to forfeit payments
otherwise due to us and could result in settlement delays, which could damage our reputation and
ability to transact future business. In addition, many derivative transactions are not cleared and
settled through a central clearinghouse or exchange, and they may not always be confirmed or
settled by counterparties on a timely basis. In these situations, we are subject to heightened
credit and operational risk, and in the event of a default, we may find the contract more difficult
to enforce. Further, as new and more complex derivative products are created, disputes regarding
the terms or the settlement procedures of the contracts could arise, which could force us to incur
unexpected costs, including transaction and legal costs, and impair our ability to manage
effectively our risk exposure from these products.


Many of our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques have a basis in historic market
behavior, and all





6




Table of Contents




such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management’s
subjective judgment. For example, many models used by us are based on assumptions regarding
correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market
stress, such as occurred during 2008, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously
uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely, previously correlated indicators may
make unrelated movements. These sudden market movements or unanticipated or unidentified market or
economic movements have in some circumstances limited the effectiveness of our risk management
strategies, causing us to incur losses. In addition, as our businesses grow and the markets in
which they operate continue to evolve, our risk management framework may not always keep sufficient
pace with those changes. For example, there is the risk that the credit and market risks associated
with new products or new business strategies may not be appropriately identified, monitored or
managed. There can be no assurance that our risk management framework, including our underlying
assumptions or strategies, will at all times be accurate and effective.


Our operations are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable economic, monetary, political, legal
and other developments in the United States and around the world.

Our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies that are adopted by
various regulatory authorities of the United States, non-U.S. governments and international
agencies.


The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in
the United States. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing
and the return earned on those loans and investments. The market impact from such policies can also
materially decrease the value of financial assets that we hold, such as debt securities and
mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). Its policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially
increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us.
Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these
changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.


Our businesses and revenue are also subject to the risks inherent in maintaining international
operations and in investing and trading in securities of companies worldwide. These risks include,
among others, risk of loss from the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism and various
unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political
instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation,
nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and
changes in laws and regulations. Further, various countries in which we operate or invest, or in
which we may do so in the future, have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions,
including extreme currency fluctuations, high inflation, or low or negative growth, among other
negative conditions. Crime, corruption, war or military actions, acts of terrorism and a
lack of an established legal and regulatory framework are additional challenges in some of these
countries, particularly in the emerging markets. Revenue from international operations and trading
in non-U.S. securities may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result




of the above
considerations. The impact of these fluctuations could be accentuated as some trading markets are
smaller, less liquid and more volatile than larger markets. Also, any of the above-mentioned events
or circumstances in one country can and has in the past, affected our operations and investments
in another country or countries. Any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an
adverse impact on our business and results of operations.


The emergence of a widespread health emergency or pandemic also could create economic or financial
disruption that could negatively affect our revenue and operations or impair our ability to manage
our businesses in certain parts of the world.


Our power generation and commodities activities are subject to extensive regulation, potential
catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose it to significant cost
and liability.

We engage in power generation, and in connection with the commodities activities of our Investment
Bank, we engage in the storage, transportation, marketing or trading of several commodities,
including metals, agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power,
emission credits, coal, freight, and related products and indices. As a result of these activities,
we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, and other governmental
laws and regulations. We expect laws and regulations affecting our power generation and commodities
activities to expand in scope and complexity. We may incur substantial costs in complying with
current or future laws and regulations and the failure to comply with these laws and regulations
may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. In addition, liability may be
incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for remediation
of contaminations. Our power generation and commodities activities also further exposes us to the
risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions,
release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that
could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, damage to our reputation and
suspension of operations. In addition, our power generation activities are subject to disruptions,
many of which are outside of our control, from the breakdown or failure of power generation
equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes, and the contractual failure of
performance by third-party suppliers or service providers, including the failure to obtain and
deliver raw materials necessary for the operation of power generation facilities. We attempt to
mitigate our risks, but our actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In
addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any,
from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular
incidents. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected
by such events.


We rely on our systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially
adversely affect our operations.

Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of
increasingly complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data







7




Table of Contents






Part I



processing
systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We
are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our
employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error
or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or
systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us,
including relating to breakdowns or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of
these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, or result in
potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could
materially adversely affect us.


If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession were
to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational
damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such
information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information,
either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is
intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.


We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or
partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or
telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or
physical assets, or events arising from local or larger scale politics, including terrorist acts.
Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us.


In a firm as large and complex as us, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial
reporting may occur from time to time, and there is no assurance that significant deficiencies or
material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. In addition, there is the
risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems
prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely
affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the
defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not
covered by insurance.


We operate within a highly regulated industry and our business and results are
significantly affected by the laws and regulations to which we are subject.

We operate within a highly regulated industry. We are subject to regulation under state and federal
laws in the U.S., as well as the applicable laws of each of the various other jurisdictions outside
the U.S. in which we do business. These laws and regulations affect the type and manner in which we
do business and may limit our ability to expand our product offerings, pursue acquisitions, or
restrict the scope of operations and services provided.


Recent market and economic conditions have led to new legislation and numerous proposals for
changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional
legislation and regulation in the United States. In response to such market and economic
conditions, the United States government, particularly the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the FDIC, and foreign governments,




have taken a
variety of extraordinary measures designed to restore confidence in the financial markets, increase
liquidity and to strengthen financial institutions. For example, on October 3, 2008 and on February
17, 2009, the EESA and the ARRA, respectively, were signed into law. These laws are
intended to provide fiscal stimulus and stability to the U.S. economy, by among other things,
permitting the U.S. Treasury to make direct investments in financial institutions pursuant to the
Capital Purchase Program. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these
laws and their implementing regulations, or any other governmental program, will have on the
financial markets. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or
worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could continue to materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the
trading price of our common stock.


Participation in current or future government programs adopted in response to recent market events
and economic conditions may subject us to restrictions and additional oversight on the manner in
which we operate our business. We are currently participating in the Capital Purchase Program, and
under the terms of the program, as amended by the ARRA, the consent of the U.S. Treasury is
required for us to, among other things, increase our common stock
dividend from the amount of the last quarterly stock dividend
declared by us prior to October 14, 2008 or, except in limited
circumstances, repurchase our common stock or other preferred stock unless the Series K Preferred
Stock that was issued to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program has been redeemed or
the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series K Preferred Stock to a third party. The ARRA
also imposes restrictions on our ability to pay incentive compensation to certain of our employees.
There can be no assurance that any additional restrictions imposed by reason of our participation
in the Capital Purchase Program or other government programs will not
have an adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.


New
legislation and regulatory changes could cause business disruptions, result in significant loss of
revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging
in, impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain of our business
practices, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely
affect our business. For example, on December 18, 2008, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System adopted
enhanced regulations for credit cards through amendments to Regulation Z, which implements the
Truth-in-Lending Act, and also new regulations governing unfair or deceptive acts or practices
under the Federal Trade Commission Act. These regulatory changes will require us to invest
significant management attention and resources to make the necessary disclosure and system changes,
and could adversely affect our business.


Additional legislation and regulations may by enacted or promulgated in the future, and we are
unable to predict the form such legislation or regulation may take, or the degree to which we would
need to modify our businesses or operations to comply with such legislation or regulation. For
example, proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress that would amend to the Bankruptcy
Code to permit modifications of certain mortgages that are secured by a Chapter 13 debtor’s
principal residence. Proposed legislation has also been introduced in Congress that would, among
other things, prescribe when interest can be charged on revolving credit card accounts, prescribe
when and how interest rates can be increased, limit events of default that can result in interest
rate increases on existing balances, restrict the imposition of certain fees, require a specified
cutoff hour when payments must be credited to accounts, prescribe how payments must be allocated to
outstanding balances on accounts and restrict the issuance of credit cards for persons under 21
years of age except in certain circumstances. There can be no assurance that if any such
legislation were enacted that it would not have an adverse effect on our business, results of
operations or financial condition.



If we do
not comply with the legislation and regulations that apply to our
operations, we may be subject to fines, penalties or
material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred. In recent
years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs
and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. If this regulatory trend
continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. In
addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived
failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to
attract and retain customers or to maintain access to capital markets, which could adversely affect
our financial condition.






8




Table of Contents





We face significant legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from
private actions brought against us.

We are named as a defendant or are otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class
actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or
proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. Actions brought against us may result in judgments,
settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could materially adversely
affect our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational
harm. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely we will continue to
experience a high level of litigation and regulatory scrutiny and investigations related to our
businesses and operations.


There is increasing competition in the financial services industry which may adversely affect our
results of operations.

We operate in a highly competitive environment and we expect competitive conditions to continue to
intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger,
better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider
array of financial products and services at more competitive prices. Consolidations in the
financial services industry increased substantially during 2008, as several major U.S.
financial institutions merged, were forced to sell assets and, in some cases failed.


We also face an increasing array of competitors. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms,
investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds, insurance companies, mutual fund
companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities
processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other
Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies.
Technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository
institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for
financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and Internet-based financial
solutions, including electronic securities trading. Our businesses generally compete on the basis
of the quality and variety of our products and services, transaction execution, innovation,
reputation and price. Ongoing or increased competition in any one or all of these areas may put
downward pressure on prices for our products and services or may cause us to lose market share.
Increased competition also may require us to make additional capital investment in our businesses
in order to remain competitive. These investments may increase expense or may require us to extend
more of our capital on behalf of clients in order to execute larger, more competitive transactions.
There can be no assurance that the significant and increasing competition in the financial services
industry will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations.





Our acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses may not result in all of the benefits
anticipated.

We have in the past and may in the future seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses.
There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results,
including results relating to: the total cost of integration; the time required to complete the
integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; the overall performance of the combined
entity; or an improved price for our common stock. Integration of an acquired business can be
complex and costly, sometimes including combining relevant accounting and data processing systems
and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with employees, clients,
suppliers and other business partners. Integration efforts could divert management attention and
resources, which could adversely affect our operations or results.


Given the continued market volatility and uncertainty, we may continue to experience increased
credit costs or need to take additional markdowns and allowances for loan losses on the assets and
loans acquired in the merger (the “Bear Stearns merger”)
by and among JPMorgan Chase and The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. (“Bear Stearns”) and in connection with the acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank’s (“Washington Mutual”) banking operations (the “Washington Mutual transaction”) that could
negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. There is no
assurance that as our integration efforts continue in connection with these transactions, other
unanticipated costs or losses will not be incurred.


Acquisitions may also result in business disruptions that cause us to lose customers or cause
customers to remove their accounts from us and move their business to competing financial
institutions. It is possible that the integration process related to acquisitions could result in
the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and
policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers,
depositors and employees. The loss of key employees in connection with an acquisition could
adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business.


Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses.

Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers,
investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our
business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among
others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum
standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of
customers and counterparties. Further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may
also result in harm to our prospects.


We could suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential
conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly
complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and
interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure
to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with
us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. Therefore, there can be no assurance that
conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us.







9




Table of Contents






Part I



Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business
and failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.

Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services
industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. The executive compensation restrictions
currently, or that may in the future may be, imposed on us as a result of our participation in the
Capital Purchase Program or other government programs, may adversely affect our ability to attract
and retain qualified senior management and employees. If we are unable to continue to retain and
attract qualified employees, our performance, including our competitive position, could be
materially adversely affected.


Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could
cause unexpected losses in the future.

Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America,
we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements,
including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigations and the fair value
of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our
financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.


For example, we make judgments in connection with our consolidation analysis of SPEs. If it is
later determined that non-consolidated SPEs should be consolidated, this could negatively affect
our Consolidated Balance Sheets, related funding requirements, capital ratios and, if the SPEs’
assets include unrealized losses, could require us to recognize those losses.

Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, available-for-sale securities, certain loans, MSRs, private equity investments, structured notes and certain
repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in
order to prepare our financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may
make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately
rely to some degree on management judgment. Some of these and other assets and liabilities may have
no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on
significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in
prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet
items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or
adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings.









ITEM 1B