Item 1A: RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could affect JPMorgan Chase’s financial condition and operations. Readers should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect the Firm.Regulatory RiskJPMorgan Chase operates within a highly regulated industry, and the Firm’s businesses and results are significantly affected by the laws and regulations to which it is subject.As a global financial services firm, JPMorgan Chase is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation under federal and state laws in the United States and the laws of the various jurisdictions outside the United States in which the Firm does business. These laws and regulations significantly affect the way that the Firm does business, and can restrict the scope of its existing businesses and limit its ability to expand its product offerings or to pursue acquisitions, or can make its products and services more expensive for clients and customers.The U.S. Department of the Treasury, the FSOC, the SEC, the CFTC, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the CFPB and the FDIC are all engaged in extensive rule-making mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, and a substantial amount of the rule-making remains to be done. As a result, the complete impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Firm’s business, operations and earnings remains uncertain. Certain aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act and such rule-making are discussed in more detail below. For further information, see Supervision and regulation on pages 1–8.Debit interchange. The Firm believes that, as a result of the “Durbin Amendment” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which limit the amount that the Firm can charge for each debit card transaction, the Firm’s annualized net income has been reduced by approximately $600 million per year. Although the Firm continues to consider various actions to mitigate this reduction in net income, it is unlikely that any such actions will wholly offset such reduction.Volcker Rule. Until the final regulations under the Volcker Rule are adopted, the precise definition of prohibited “proprietary trading”, the scope of any exceptions, including those related to market-making and hedging activities, and the scope of permitted hedge fund and private equity fund investments remain uncertain. It is unclear under the proposed rules whether some portion of the Firm’s market-making-related and risk mitigation activities, as currently conducted, will be required to be curtailed or will be otherwise adversely affected. In addition, the rules, if enacted as proposed, could prohibit the Firm’s participation and investment in certain securitization structures and could bar the Firm from sponsoring or investing in certain non-U.S. funds. Also, should regulators not exercise their authority to permit the Firm to hold certain investments, including those in illiquid private equity funds, beyond the minimum statutory 8  divestment period, the Firm could incur substantial losses when it disposes of such investments. The Firm may be forced to sell such investments at a substantial discount in the secondary market as a result of both the constrained timing of such sales and the possibility that other financial institutions are likewise liquidating investments at the same time.Derivatives. In addition to imposing comprehensive regulation on the Firm’s derivatives businesses, the Dodd-Frank Act also requires banking entities, such as JPMorgan Chase, to significantly restructure their derivatives businesses, including changing the legal entities through which such businesses are conducted. Further, some of the rules for swaps will apply extraterritorially to U.S. firms doing business with clients outside of the United States. Clients of non-U.S. firms doing business outside the United States may not be required to comply with the same rules in similar transactions. This disparity in the application of the different rules could place JPMorgan Chase at a significant competitive disadvantage to its non-U.S. competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on the earnings and profitability of the Firm’s wholesale businesses.Heightened prudential standards for systemically important financial institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, JPMorgan Chase is considered to be a systemically important financial institution and is subject to heightened prudential standards and supervision. If the proposed rules issued by the Federal Reserve in December 2011 are adopted as currently proposed, they are likely to increase the Firm’s operational, compliance and risk management costs, and could have an adverse effect on the Firm’s business, results of operations or financial condition.CFPB. The CFPB has issued final regulations regarding mortgages which will become effective in January 2014 and which will prohibit mortgage servicers from beginning foreclosure proceedings until a mortgage loan is 120 days delinquent, and will impose an “ability to repay” requirement for residential mortgage loans. Other new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements that the CFPB may promulgate could require changes in JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses, result in increased compliance costs and impair the profitability of such businesses. In addition, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act’s potential expansion of the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation, the Firm could potentially be subject to additional state lawsuits and enforcement actions, thereby further increasing its legal and compliance costs.Resolution. The FDIC and the Federal Reserve have issued a final rule that requires the Firm to submit periodically to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure (a “resolution plan”). The FDIC also issued a final rule that requires the Firm to submit periodic contingency plans to the FDIC under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act outlining its resolution plan in the event of its failure. The Firm’s initial resolution plan submissions were filed in July  2012, and updates are due annually. If the FDIC and the Federal Reserve determine that the Firm’s resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements on the Firm, or restrictions on the growth, activities or operations of the Firm, or require the Firm to restructure, reorganize or divest certain assets or operations in order to facilitate an orderly resolution. Any such measures, particularly those aimed at the disaggregation of the Firm, may reduce the Firm’s capital, adversely affect the Firm’s operations and profitability, increase the Firm’s systems, technology and managerial costs, lessen efficiencies and economies of scale and potentially impede the Firm’s business strategies.In addition, holders of subordinated debt or preferred stock issued by the Firm may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the Firm enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation or similar proceeding.Concentration Limits. The Dodd-Frank Act restricts acquisitions by financial companies if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10% of the total liabilities of all financial companies in the United States. The Federal Reserve is expected to issue rules related to these provisions in 2013. This concentration limit could restrict the Firm’s ability to make acquisitions in the future, thereby adversely affecting its growth prospects.The total impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be fully assessed without taking into consideration how non-U.S. policymakers and regulators respond to the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing regulations under the Act, and how the cumulative effects of both U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations will affect the businesses and operations of the Firm. Additional legislative or regulatory actions in the United States, as well as in the other countries in which the Firm operates, could result in a significant loss of revenue for the Firm, limit the Firm’s ability to pursue business opportunities in which it might otherwise consider engaging, affect the value of assets that the Firm holds, require the Firm to increase its prices and therefore reduce demand for its products, impose additional costs on the Firm, or otherwise adversely affect the Firm’s businesses. Accordingly, any such new or additional legislation or regulations could have an adverse effect on the Firm’s business, results of operations or financial condition.Non-U.S. regulations and initiatives may be inconsistent or may conflict with current or proposed regulations in the United States, which could create increased compliance and other costs and adversely affect the Firm’s business, operations or profitability.The EU has created a European Systemic Risk Board to monitor financial stability, and the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (“G-20”) broadened the membership and scope of the Financial Stability Forum in 2008 to form the FSB. These institutions, which are   9Part Icharged with developing ways to promote cross-border financial stability, are considering various proposals to address risks associated with global financial institutions. Some of the initiatives adopted include increased capital requirements for certain trading instruments or exposures and compensation limits on certain employees located in affected countries. In the U.K., regulators have increased liquidity requirements for local financial institutions, including regulated U.K. subsidiaries of non-U.K. bank holding companies and branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K.; adopted a Bank Tax Levy that applies to balance sheets of branches and subsidiaries of non-U.K. banks; proposed that non-U.K. banks either obtain equal treatment for U.K. depositors or “subsidiarize” in the U.K.; and proposed the creation of resolution and recovery plans by U.K. regulated entities, among other initiatives.In the EU, there is an extensive and complex program of proposed regulatory enhancement which reflects, in part, the EU’s commitments to policies of the G-20 together with other plans specific to the EU. This program includes the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) which, among other things, would require central clearing of standardized derivatives and which is likely to be phased in starting in 2013. It also includes the revision of the existing Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”) to deliver, among other things, the G20 commitment to on-venue trading of derivatives. Both EMIR and MiFID II include many other regulatory requirements that may have wide-ranging and material effects on the Firm’s business operations.The EU is also currently considering significant revisions to laws covering: depositary activities; credit rating activities; resolution of banks, investment firms and market infrastructures; anti-money-laundering controls; data security and privacy; and corporate governance in financial firms, together with implementation in the EU of the Basel III capital standards. In addition, the Firm is monitoring any potential implications for its business of developments in relation to both bank structure (in respect of which both the EU itself and a variety of EU Member States unilaterally are considering new rules) and the EU’s plans for a single supervisory mechanism for systemic banks under the European Central Bank. For example, the U.K. Independent Commission on Banking (the “Vickers Commission”) proposed provisions, which are now set forth in draft legislation, that would mandate the separation (or “ring-fencing”) of deposit-taking activities from securities trading and other analogous activities within banks, subject to certain exemptions. The final legislation is expected to adopt and include the supplemental recommendation of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards (the “Tyrie Commission”) that such ring-fences should be “electrified” by the imposition of mandatory forced separation on banking institutions that are deemed to test the limits of the safeguards. It is believed that the Firm will have the benefit of the above-referenced exemptions from the requirement to “ring-fence,” but this cannot be determined until the criteria are known with certainty.  Parallel but distinct draft provisions have been published by the French and German governments which could affect the Firm’s operations in those countries.It is not possible to determine at the current time how these various proposals will affect the Firm’s businesses, or how each relate to the European Commission’s forthcoming legislative proposals on bank structure arising out of the Report of the High Level Expert Group on Reforming the Structure of the EU Banking Sector (the “Liikanen Group”). However, as regulatory requirements that are being proposed by these various regulators may be inconsistent or conflict with regulations to which the Firm is subject in the United States (as well as in other parts of the world), the Firm may, if these proposals are adopted, be subjected to higher compliance and legal costs, as well as the possibility of higher operational, capital and liquidity costs, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Firm’s business, results of operations and profitability in the future.The Basel III capital standards will impose additional capital, liquidity and other requirements on the Firm that could decrease its competitiveness and profitability.The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) announced in December 2010 revisions to its Capital Accord; such revisions are commonly referred to as “Basel III”. Basel III will require higher capital ratio requirements for banks, narrow the definition of capital, expand the definition of risk-weighted assets, and introduce short-term liquidity and term funding standards, among other things. In June 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies published proposed capital rules to implement Basel III.Capital Surcharge. In June 2011, the Basel Committee and the FSB proposed that GSIBs be required to maintain additional capital above the Basel III Tier 1 common equity minimum. See page 5 in Item 1: Business, for further information on the proposed capital change. Based on the Firm’s current understanding of these new capital requirements, the Firm expects that it will be in compliance with all of the standards to which it will be subject as they become effective. However, compliance with these capital standards may reduce the Firm’s return on equity or cause the Firm to alter the types of products it offers to its customers and clients, thereby causing the Firm’s products to become less attractive or placing the Firm at a competitive disadvantage to financial institutions, both within and outside the United States, that are not subject to the same capital surcharge.Liquidity Coverage and Net Stable Funding Ratios. The Basel Committee has also proposed two new measures of liquidity risk: the “liquidity coverage ratio” and the “net stable funding ratio,” which are intended to measure, during an acute stress, over different time spans, the amount of the liquid assets held by the Firm in relation to liquidity required. If the ratios are finalized as currently proposed, the Firm may need to incur additional costs to raise liquidity and to take certain mitigating actions, such as ceasing to 10  offer certain products to its customers and clients or charging higher fees for extending certain lines of credit, in order to be in compliance with such ratios. Accordingly, compliance with these liquidity coverage standards could adversely affect the Firm’s funding costs or reduce its profitability in the future.Elimination of Use of External Credit Ratings. The Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC have issued final rules for risk-based capital guidelines which eliminate the use of external credit ratings for the calculation of risk-weighted assets. This will result in a significant increase in the calculation of the Firm’s risk-weighted assets, which will require the Firm to hold more capital, increase its cost of doing business and place the Firm at a competitive disadvantage to non-U.S. competitors.Expanded regulatory oversight of JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses will increase the Firm’s compliance costs and risks and may negatively affect the profitability of such businesses.JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses are subject to increasing regulatory oversight and scrutiny with respect to its compliance with consumer laws and regulations, including changes implemented as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Firm has entered into Consent Orders with its banking regulators relating to its Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) and Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) policies, procedures and controls and with respect to its residential mortgage servicing, foreclosure and loss-mitigation activities. The Firm also agreed in 2012 to a global settlement with a number of federal and state government agencies relating to the servicing and origination of mortgages. The mortgage-related Consent Order and global settlement require the Firm to make cash payments and provide certain refinancing and other borrower relief, as well as to adhere to certain enhanced mortgage servicing standards, and the BSA/AML Consent Order will require the Firm to make enhancements to its procedures, make investments in its technology and hire additional personnel, all of which will increase the Firm’s operational and compliance costs.New regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements that the CFPB may promulgate could require changes in the product offerings and practices of JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses and affect the profitability of such businesses.Finally, as a result of increasing federal and state scrutiny of the Firm’s consumer practices, the Firm may face a greater number or wider scope of investigations, enforcement actions and litigation, thereby increasing its costs associated with responding to or defending such actions. In addition, increased regulatory inquiries and investigations, as well as any additional legislative or regulatory developments affecting the Firm’s consumer businesses, and any required changes to the Firm’s business operations resulting from these developments, could result in significant loss of revenue, limit the products or services the Firm offers, require the Firm to increase its prices and therefore reduce demand for its products, impose  additional compliance costs on the Firm, cause harm to the Firm’s reputation or otherwise adversely affect the Firm’s consumer businesses. If the Firm does not appropriately comply with current or future legislation and regulations that apply to its consumer operations, the Firm may be subject to fines, penalties or judgments, or material regulatory restrictions on its businesses, which could adversely affect the Firm’s operations and, in turn, its financial results.Implementation of the Firm’s resolution plan under the U.S. resolution plan rules could materially impair the claims of JPMorgan Chase debt holders.As noted above, in July 2012 JPMorgan Chase submitted to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC its initial plan for resolution of the Firm. The Firm’s resolution plan includes strategies to resolve the Firm under the Bankruptcy Code, and also recommends to the FDIC and the Federal Reserve the Firm’s proposed optimal strategy to resolve the Firm under the special resolution procedure provided in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act (“Title II”).The Firm’s recommendation for its optimal Title II strategy would involve a “single point of entry” recapitalization model in which the FDIC would use its power to create a “bridge entity” for JPMorgan Chase, transfer the systemically important and viable parts of the Firm’s business, principally the stock of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s main operating subsidiaries and any intercompany claims against such subsidiaries, to the bridge entity, recapitalize those businesses by contributing some or all of such intercompany claims to the capital of such subsidiaries, and by exchanging debt claims against JPMorgan Chase & Co. for equity in the bridge entity. If the Firm were to be resolved under this strategy, no assurance can be given that the value of the stock of the bridge entity distributed to the holders of debt obligations of JPMorgan Chase & Co. would be sufficient to repay or satisfy all or part of the principal amount of, and interest on, the debt obligations for which such stock was exchanged.Market RiskJPMorgan Chase’s results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by U.S. and international financial market and economic conditions.JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are materially affected by economic and market conditions, including the liquidity of the global financial markets; the level and volatility of debt and equity prices, interest rates and currency and commodities prices; investor sentiment; events that reduce confidence in the financial markets; inflation and unemployment; the availability and cost of capital and credit; the occurrence of natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism; and the health of U.S. or international economies.In the Firm’s wholesale businesses, the above-mentioned factors can affect transactions involving the Firm’s underwriting and advisory businesses; the realization of cash returns from its private equity business; the volume of transactions that the Firm executes for its customers and,   11Part Itherefore, the revenue that the Firm receives from commissions and spreads; and the willingness of financial sponsors or other investors to participate in loan syndications or underwritings managed by the Firm.The Firm generally maintains extensive positions in the fixed income, currency, commodities and equity markets to facilitate client demand and provide liquidity to clients. The Firm may have market-making positions that lack pricing transparency or liquidity. The revenue derived from these positions is affected by many factors, including the Firm’s success in effectively hedging its market and other risks, volatility in interest rates and equity, debt and commodities markets, credit spreads, and availability of liquidity in the capital markets, all of which are affected by economic and market conditions. The Firm anticipates that revenue relating to its market-making and private equity businesses will continue to experience volatility, which will affect pricing or the ability to realize returns from such activities, and that this could materially adversely affect the Firm’s earnings.The fees that the Firm earns for managing third-party assets are also dependent upon general economic conditions. For example, a higher level of U.S. or non-U.S. interest rates or a downturn in securities markets could affect the valuations of the third-party assets that the Firm manages or holds in custody, which, in turn, could affect the Firm’s revenue. Macroeconomic or market concerns may also prompt outflows from the Firm’s funds or accounts.Changes in interest rates will affect the level of assets and liabilities held on the Firm’s balance sheet and the revenue that the Firm earns from net interest income. A low interest rate environment or a flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect certain of the Firm’s businesses by compressing net interest margins, reducing the amounts that the Firm earns on its investment securities portfolio, or reducing the value of its mortgage servicing rights (“MSR”) asset, thereby reducing the Firm’s net interest income and other revenues.The Firm’s consumer businesses are particularly affected by domestic economic conditions, including U.S. interest rates; the rate of unemployment; housing prices; the level of consumer confidence; changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies. If the current positive trends in the U.S. economy are not sustained, this could diminish demand for the products and services of the Firm’s consumer businesses, or increase the cost to provide such products and services. In addition, adverse economic conditions, such as declines in home prices or persistent high levels of unemployment, could lead to an increase in mortgage, credit card and other loan delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which can reduce the Firm’s earnings.Widening of credit spreads makes it more expensive for the Firm to borrow on both a secured and unsecured basis. Credit spreads widen or narrow not only in response to Firm-specific events and circumstances, but also as a result of general economic and geopolitical events and conditions.  Changes in the Firm’s credit spreads will impact, positively or negatively, the Firm’s earnings on liabilities that are recorded at fair value.Despite improved financial market conditions, many of the structural issues facing the Eurozone remain and problems could resurface which could have significant adverse effects on JPMorgan Chase’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Notwithstanding improved financial market conditions, many of the structural issues facing the Eurozone remain and problems could resurface which could have significant adverse effects on JPMorgan Chase’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, particularly if they lead to sovereign debt default, significant bank failures or defaults and/or the exit of one or more countries from the European Monetary Union (the “EMU”).The ECB’s Outright Monetary Transaction program continues to underpin an improved risk environment, shifting the focus of the crisis from immediate financing strains to the more structural challenges of fiscal retrenchment and stimulation of GDP growth. However, financial market conditions could materially worsen if, for example, consecutive Eurozone countries were to default on their sovereign debt, significant bank failures or defaults in these countries were to occur, and/or one or more of the members of the Eurozone were to exit the EMU. Yields on government bonds of certain Eurozone countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have remained volatile, despite various stabilization packages and facilities that have been implemented to assist various distressed Eurozone countries. Concerns have been and continue to be raised as to the financial effectiveness of the assistance measures taken to date and such concerns could intensify. Concerns could also be triggered by political developments, with key elections in Italy and Germany during 2013, and ongoing uncertainty about the tolerance of austerity across the Eurozone.Continued economic turmoil in the Eurozone could lead to a further deterioration of global economic conditions and thereby adversely affect the Firm’s business and results of operations in Europe and elsewhere. There can be no assurance that the various steps that JPMorgan Chase has taken to protect its businesses, results of operations and financial condition against the results of the Eurozone crisis will be sufficient.Further, the effects of the Eurozone debt crisis could be even more significant if they lead to a partial or complete break-up of the EMU. The partial or full break-up of the EMU would be unprecedented and its impact highly uncertain. The exit of one or more countries from the EMU or the dissolution of the EMU could lead to redenomination of certain obligations of obligors in exiting countries. Any such exit and redenomination would cause significant uncertainty with respect to outstanding obligations of counterparties and debtors in any exiting country, whether sovereign or otherwise, and lead to complex and lengthy disputes and litigation. The resulting uncertainty and 12  market stress could also cause, among other things, severe disruption to equity markets, significant increases in bond yields generally, potential failure or default of financial institutions, including those of systemic importance, a significant decrease in global liquidity, a freeze-up of global credit markets and a potential worldwide recession. Any combination of such events could negatively impact JPMorgan Chase’s businesses, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, one or more EMU exits and currency redenominations could be accompanied by imposition of capital, exchange and similar controls, which could further negatively impact JPMorgan Chase’s cross-border risk and other aspects of its businesses and its earnings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Country Risk Management” on pages 170–173 for a discussion of the Firm’s European exposures.Changes are being considered in the method for determining LIBOR and it is not apparent how any such changes could affect the value of LIBOR-linked obligations of JPMorgan Chase, or how such changes could affect the Firm’s financial condition or results of operations.Beginning in 2008, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of the calculation of the daily London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), which is currently overseen by the British Bankers’ Association (the “BBA”). The BBA has taken steps to change the process for determining LIBOR by increasing the number of banks surveyed to set LIBOR and to strengthen the oversight of the process. The final report of the Wheatley Review of LIBOR, published in September 2012, set forth recommendations relating to the setting and administration of LIBOR, including the gradual phasing out of certain currencies and maturities. In December 2012 the U.K. government adopted legislation enacting one of those recommendations, making it a criminal offense to attempt to manipulate the setting of benchmark rates. The U.K. government also announced that the U.K. Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) intends to incorporate the rest of the Wheatley Review recommendations in new regulations relating to the LIBOR process.At the present time it is uncertain the extent of changes, if any, may be required or made by the FSA or other governmental or regulatory authorities in the method for determining LIBOR. Accordingly, at the present time it is not apparent whether or to what extent any such changes would have an adverse impact on the value of any LIBOR-linked debt securities issued by the Firm or any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit for which the Firm is an obligor, or whether or to what extent any such changes would have an adverse effect on the value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or due to the Firm, or on the Firm’s financial condition or results of operations. Credit RiskThe financial condition of JPMorgan Chase’s customers, clients and counterparties, including other financial institutions, could adversely affect the Firm.If the current positive economic trends globally are not sustained, more of JPMorgan Chase’s customers may become delinquent on their loans or other obligations to the Firm which, in turn, could result in a higher level of charge-offs and provisions for credit losses, or in requirements that the Firm purchase assets from or provide other funding to its clients and counterparties, any of which could adversely affect the Firm’s financial condition. Moreover, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of the Firm’s counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating the Firm’s credit risk exposure, and increasing the losses (including mark-to-market losses) that the Firm could incur in its market-making and clearing businesses.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of market-making, trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Firm routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Firm to credit risk and, in some cases, disputes and litigation in the event of a default by the counterparty or client.During periods of market stress or illiquidity, the Firm’s credit risk also may be further increased when the Firm cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to the Firm. Further, disputes with obligors as to the valuation of collateral significantly increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Periods of illiquidity could produce losses if the Firm is unable to realize the fair value of collateral or manage declines in the value of collateral.Concentration of credit and market risk could increase the potential for significant losses.JPMorgan Chase has exposure to increased levels of risk when customers are engaged in similar business activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions. As a result, the Firm regularly monitors various segments of its portfolio exposures to assess potential concentration risks. The Firm’s efforts to diversify or hedge its credit portfolio against concentration risks may not be successful.In addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in the Firm’s inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of its positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. The inability to reduce the Firm’s positions may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase   13Part Ithe level of risk-weighted assets on the Firm’s balance sheet, thereby increasing its capital requirements and funding costs, all of which could adversely affect the operations and profitability of the Firm’s businesses.JPMorgan Chase’s role as a clearing and custody bank in the U.S. tri-party repurchase business exposes it to credit risks, including intra-day credit risk.The Firm is a market leader in providing clearing, custodial and prime brokerage services for financial services companies. In addition, the Firm acts as a clearing and custody bank in the U.S. tri-party repurchase transaction market. Many of these transactions expose the Firm to credit risk in the event of a default by the counterparty or client and, in the case of its role in the U.S. tri-party repurchase business, can expose the Firm to intra-day credit risk of the cash borrowers, usually broker-dealers; however, this exposure is secured by collateral and typically extinguished through the settlement process by the end of the day. The Firm actively participated in the Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform Task Force sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which issued recommendations to modify and improve the infrastructure of tri-party repurchase transactions in order to, among other things, mitigate intra-day credit exposure. The Firm has implemented many of the recommendations and intends to implement the intra-day credit recommendations by the end of 2013. As a result, the Firm expects its intra-day credit exposure after implementation of all the Task Force recommendations to be substantially reduced. Nevertheless, if a broker-dealer that is party to a repurchase transaction cleared by the Firm becomes bankrupt or insolvent, the Firm may become involved in disputes and litigation with the broker-dealer’s bankruptcy estate and other creditors, or involved in regulatory investigations, all of which can increase the Firm’s operational and litigation costs and may result in losses if the securities in the repurchase transaction decline in value.Liquidity RiskIf JPMorgan Chase does not effectively manage its liquidity, its business could suffer.JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity is critical to its ability to operate its businesses. Some potential conditions that could impair the Firm’s liquidity include markets that become illiquid or are otherwise experiencing disruption, unforeseen cash or capital requirements (including, among others, commitments that may be triggered to special purpose entities (“SPEs”) or other entities), difficulty in selling or inability to sell assets, unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral, and lack of market or customer confidence in the Firm or financial markets in general. These conditions may be caused by events over which the Firm has little or no control. The widespread crisis in investor confidence and resulting liquidity crisis experienced in 2008 and into early 2009 increased the Firm’s cost of funding and limited its access to some of its traditional sources of liquidity such as securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, credit card  receivables and other assets, and there is no assurance that these conditions could not occur in the future.If the Firm’s access to stable and low cost sources of funding, such as bank deposits, are reduced, the Firm may need to raise alternative funding which may be more expensive or of limited availability.As a holding company, JPMorgan Chase & Co. relies on the earnings of its subsidiaries for its cash flow and, consequently, its ability to pay dividends and satisfy its debt and other obligations. These payments by subsidiaries may take the form of dividends, loans or other payments. Several of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s principal subsidiaries are subject to dividend distribution or capital adequacy requirements or other regulatory restrictions on their ability to provide such payments. Limitations in the payments that JPMorgan Chase & Co. receives from its subsidiaries could reduce its liquidity position.Some regulators have proposed legislation or regulations requiring large banks to incorporate a separate subsidiary in countries in which they operate, and to maintain independent capital and liquidity for such subsidiaries. If adopted, these requirements could hinder the Firm’s ability to efficiently manage its funding and liquidity in a centralized manner.Reductions in the Firm’s credit ratings may adversely affect its liquidity and cost of funding, as well as the value of debt obligations issued by the Firm.JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain of its subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., are currently rated by credit rating agencies. In 2012, Moody’s and Fitch downgraded the ratings of JPMorgan Chase & Co. In addition, as of year-end 2012, Moody’s had JPMorgan Chase & Co., and S&P had JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and certain other subsidiaries, on “negative” outlook, indicating the possibility of a further downgrade in ratings. Although the Firm closely monitors and manages factors influencing its credit ratings, there is no assurance that such ratings will not be lowered in the future. For example, the rating agencies, have indicated that further control failures by the Firm (such as was evidenced in the Chief Investment Office (“CIO”) matter discussed below), deterioration in capital, liquidity and asset quality levels, or a significant increase in risk appetite could put downward pressure on the Firm’s ratings. Additionally, the rating agencies have indicated that they intend to re-evaluate the credit ratings of systemically important financial institutions in light of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that seek to eliminate any implicit government support for such institutions.Furthermore, the rating agencies continue to evaluate economic and geopolitical trends, including sovereign creditworthiness, elevated economic uncertainty and higher funding spreads, all of which could lead to downgrades in the credit ratings of global banks, including the Firm. There is no assurance that any such downgrades from rating agencies, if they affected the Firm’s credit ratings, would not occur at times of broader market instability when the 14  Firm’s options for responding to events may be more limited and general investor confidence is low.Further, a reduction in the Firm’s credit ratings could reduce the Firm’s access to debt markets, materially increase the cost of issuing debt, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing or permitted, contractually or otherwise, to do business with or lend to the Firm, thereby curtailing the Firm’s business operations and reducing its profitability. In addition, any such reduction in credit ratings may increase the credit spreads charged by the market for taking credit risk on JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries and, as a result, could adversely affect the value of debt obligations that they have issued or may issue in the future.Legal RiskJPMorgan Chase faces significant legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from private actions brought against the Firm.JPMorgan Chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. There is no assurance that litigation with private parties will not increase in the future. Actions currently pending against the Firm may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to the Firm, which could materially adversely affect the Firm’s business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm to the Firm. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that the Firm will continue to experience a high level of litigation related to its businesses and operations.The Firm’s businesses and operations are also subject to increasing regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. In 2012, the Firm was the subject of Consent Orders from its banking regulators and entered into a global settlement with federal and state governmental agencies relating to its mortgage servicing and origination activities. In January 2013, the Firm also entered into Consent Orders with its banking regulators related to risk management, model governance and other control functions related to CIO and certain other trading activities at the Firm and with respect to the Firm’s and certain of its bank subsidiaries’ policies, procedures and controls relating to compliance with BSA and AML requirements. As the regulators continue to examine the operations of the Firm and its bank subsidiaries, there is no assurance that additional consent orders or other enforcement actions will not be issued by them in the future. These and other initiatives from federal and state officials may subject the Firm to further judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause the Firm to be required to restructure its operations and activities, all of which could lead to reputational issues, or higher operational costs, thereby reducing the Firm’s revenue. Business and Operational RisksJPMorgan Chase’s operations are subject to risk of loss from unfavorable economic, monetary and political developments in the United States and around the world.JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies that are adopted by various U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory authorities and agencies. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing in the United States and the return earned on those loans and investments. Changes in Federal Reserve policies (as well as the fiscal and monetary policies of non-U.S. central banks or regulatory authorities and agencies) are beyond the Firm’s control and, consequently, the impact of changes in these policies on the Firm’s activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.The Firm’s businesses and revenue are also subject to risks inherent in investing and market-making in securities of companies worldwide. These risks include, among others, risk of loss from unfavorable political, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, in the countries in which such companies operate, as well as the other risks and considerations as described further below.Several of the Firm’s businesses engage in transactions with, or trade in obligations of, U.S. and non-U.S. governmental entities, including national, state, provincial, municipal and local authorities. These activities can expose the Firm to enhanced sovereign, credit-related, operational and reputational risks, including the risks that a governmental entity may default on or restructure its obligations or may claim that actions taken by government officials were beyond the legal authority of those officials, which could adversely affect the Firm’s financial condition and results of operations.Further, various countries in which the Firm operates or invests, or in which the Firm may do so in the future, have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions particular to those countries or regions. As noted above, concerns regarding the fiscal condition of certain countries within the Eurozone continue and there is no assurance such concerns will not lead to “market contagion” beyond those countries in the Eurozone or beyond the Eurozone. Accordingly, it is possible that economic disruptions in certain countries, even in countries in which the Firm does not conduct business or have operations, will adversely affect the Firm.JPMorgan Chase’s international growth strategy may be hindered by local political, social and economic factors, and will be subject to additional compliance costs and risks.JPMorgan Chase has expanded, and plans to continue to grow, its international wholesale businesses in Europe/Middle East/Africa (“EMEA”), Asia/Pacific and Latin America/Caribbean. As part of its international growth strategy, the Firm seeks to provide a wider range of   15Part Ifinancial services to its clients that conduct business in those regions and to expand its international operations.Many of the countries in which JPMorgan Chase intends to grow its wholesale businesses have economies or markets that are less developed and more volatile, and may have legal and regulatory regimes that are less established or predictable, than the United States and other developed markets in which the Firm currently operates. Some of these countries have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions, including extreme currency fluctuations, high inflation, or low or negative growth, among other negative conditions, or have imposed restrictive monetary policies such as currency exchange controls and other laws and restrictions that adversely affect the local and regional business environment. In addition, these countries have historically been more susceptible to unfavorable political, social or economic developments which have in the past resulted in, and may in the future lead to, social unrest, general strikes and demonstrations, outbreaks of hostilities, overthrow of incumbent governments, terrorist attacks or other forms of internal discord, all of which can adversely affect the Firm’s operations or investments in such countries. Political, social or economic disruption or dislocation in countries or regions in which the Firm seeks to expand its wholesale businesses can hinder the growth and profitability of those operations, and there can be no assurance that the Firm will be able to successfully execute its international growth initiatives.Less developed legal and regulatory systems in certain countries can also have adverse consequences on the Firm’s operations in those countries, including, among others, the absence of a statutory or regulatory basis or guidance for engaging in specific types of business or transactions, or the inconsistent application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations; uncertainty as to the enforceability of contractual obligations; difficulty in competing in economies in which the government controls or protects all or a portion of the local economy or specific businesses, or where graft or corruption may be pervasive; and the threat of arbitrary regulatory investigations, civil litigations or criminal prosecutions.Revenue from international operations and trading in non-U.S. securities and other obligations may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above considerations, as well as due to governmental actions including expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. The impact of these fluctuations could be accentuated as some trading markets are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than larger markets. Also, any of the above-mentioned events or circumstances in one country can, and has in the past, affected the Firm’s operations and investments in another country or countries, including the Firm’s operations in the United States. As a result, any such unfavorable conditions  or developments could have an adverse impact on the Firm’s business and results of operations.Conducting business in countries with less developed legal and regulatory regimes often requires the Firm to devote significant additional resources to understanding, and monitoring changes in, local laws and regulations, as well as structuring its operations to comply with local laws and regulations and implementing and administering related internal policies and procedures. There can be no assurance that the Firm will always be successful in its efforts to conduct its business in compliance with laws and regulations in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory systems. In addition, the Firm can also incur higher costs, and face greater compliance risks, in structuring its operations outside the United States to comply with U.S. anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations.JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations may be adversely affected by loan repurchase and indemnity obligations.In connection with the sale and securitization of loans (whether with or without recourse), the originator is generally required to make a variety of representations and warranties regarding both the originator and the loans being sold or securitized. JPMorgan Chase and some of its subsidiaries have made such representations and warranties in connection with the sale and securitization of loans, and the Firm will continue to do so when it securitizes loans it has originated. If a loan that does not comply with such representations or warranties is sold or securitized, the Firm may be obligated to repurchase the loan and incur any associated loss directly, or the Firm may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such losses. Since 2010, the costs of repurchasing mortgage loans that had been sold to U.S. government-sponsored entities (“GSEs”), such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have been elevated, and there is no assurance that such costs will not continue to be elevated in the future. Accordingly, repurchase or indemnity obligations to the GSEs or to private third-party purchasers could materially and adversely affect the Firm’s results of operations and earnings in the future.The repurchase liability that the Firm records with respect to its loan repurchase obligations to the GSEs is estimated based on several factors, including the level of current and estimated probable future repurchase demands made by purchasers, the Firm’s ability to cure the defects identified in the repurchases demands, the severity of loss upon repurchase or foreclosure, the Firm’s potential ability to recover certain losses from third-party originators, and the terms of agreements with certain mortgage insurers and other parties. While the Firm believes that its current repurchase liability reserves are adequate, the factors referred to above are subject to change based on the GSEs’ future behavior, the economic environment and other uncertainties. Accordingly, there is no assurance that such reserves will not be increased in the future.The Firm also faces litigation related to securitizations, primarily related to securitizations not sold to the GSEs. The 16  Firm separately evaluates its exposure to such litigation in establishing its litigation reserves. While the Firm believes that its current reserves in respect of such litigation matters are adequate, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future.JPMorgan Chase may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that it satisfies requirements relating to mortgage servicing and foreclosures.The Firm has, as described above, entered into the Consent Orders with its banking regulators relating to its residential mortgage servicing, foreclosure and loss-mitigation activities, and agreed to the global settlement with federal and state government agencies relating to the servicing and origination of mortgages. The Firm expects to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with its efforts to enhance its mortgage origination, servicing and foreclosure procedures, including the enhancements required under the Consent Orders and the global settlement. In addition, the GSEs impose compensatory fees on their mortgage servicers, including the Firm, if such servicers are unable to comply with the foreclosure timetables mandated by the GSEs, and such fees may continue to be imposed on the Firm in the future.JPMorgan Chase’s commodities activities are subject to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose the Firm to significant cost and liability.JPMorgan Chase engages in the storage, transportation, marketing or trading of several commodities, including metals, agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, and related products and indices. The Firm is also engaged in power generation and has invested in companies engaged in wind energy and in sourcing, developing and trading emission reduction credits. As a result of all of these activities, the Firm is subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, and other governmental laws and regulations. The Firm expects laws and regulations affecting its commodities activities to expand in scope and complexity, and to restrict some of the Firm’s activities, which could result in lower revenues from the Firm’s commodities activities. In addition, the Firm may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations, and the failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. Furthermore, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for remediation of contaminations.The Firm’s commodities activities also further expose the Firm to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, damage to the Firm’s reputation and suspension of operations. The Firm’s commodities activities are also subject to disruptions, many  of which are outside of the Firm’s control, from the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes, and the contractual failure of performance by third-party suppliers or service providers, including the failure to obtain and deliver raw materials necessary for the operation of power generation facilities. The Firm’s actions to mitigate its risks related to the above-mentioned considerations may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, the Firm’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by such events.JPMorgan Chase relies on its systems, employees and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect the Firm’s operations.JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are dependent on the Firm’s ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions. If the Firm’s financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, the Firm could be materially adversely affected. The Firm is similarly dependent on its employees. The Firm could be materially adversely affected if one or more of its employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates the Firm’s operations or systems. Third parties with which the Firm does business could also be sources of operational risk to the Firm, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of the systems or misconduct by the employees of such parties. In addition, as the Firm changes processes or introduces new products and services, the Firm may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. Any of these occurrences could diminish the Firm’s ability to operate one or more of its businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, increased operating expenses, higher litigation costs (including fines and sanctions), reputational damage, regulatory intervention or weaker competitive standing, any of which could materially adversely affect the Firm.If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Firm’s possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Firm could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either through the fault of the Firm’s systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.The Firm may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the Firm’s control, which may include, for example, security breaches (as discussed further below); electrical or   17Part Itelecommunications outages; failures of computer servers or other damage to the Firm’s property or assets; natural disasters; health emergencies or pandemics; or events arising from local or larger scale political events, including terrorist acts. JPMorgan Chase maintains a global resiliency and crisis management program that is intended to ensure that the Firm has the ability to recover its critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff, technology and facilities, in the event of a business interruption. While the Firm believes that its current resiliency plans are both sufficient and adequate, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to the Firm. Any failures or disruptions of the Firm’s systems or operations could give rise to losses in service to customers and clients, adversely affect the Firm’s business and results of operations by subjecting the Firm to losses or liability, or require the Firm to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption, as well as by exposing the Firm to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance.A breach in the security of JPMorgan Chase’s systems could disrupt its businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage its reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure for the Firm.Although JPMorgan Chase devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of the Firm’s computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the Firm and its customers, there is no assurance that all of the Firm’s security measures will provide absolute security. JPMorgan Chase and other financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks and other means. The Firm and several other U.S. financial institutions have also experienced several significant distributed denial-of-service attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced third parties which were intended to disrupt consumer online banking services.Despite the Firm’s efforts to ensure the integrity of its systems, it is possible that the Firm may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties outside the Firm such as persons who are involved with organized crime or associated with external service providers or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those parties may also  attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of the Firm’s systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to the Firm’s data or that of its customers or clients. These risks may increase in the future as the Firm continues to increase its mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expands its internal usage of web-based products and applications.A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of the Firm’s systems could cause serious negative consequences for the Firm, including significant disruption of the Firm’s operations, misappropriation of confidential information of the Firm or that of its customers, or damage to computers or systems of the Firm and those of its customers and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to the Firm or to its customers, loss of confidence in the Firm’s security measures, customer dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to the Firm’s reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Firm.JPMorgan Chase’s acquisitions and the integration of acquired businesses may not result in all of the benefits anticipated.JPMorgan Chase has in the past and may in the future seek to expand its business by acquiring other businesses. There can be no assurance that the Firm’s acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: the total cost of integration; the time required to complete the integration; the amount of longer-term cost savings; the overall performance of the combined entity; or an improved price for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s common stock. Integration efforts could divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect the Firm’s operations or results. The Firm cannot provide assurance that any such integration efforts would not result in the occurrence of unanticipated costs or losses.Acquisitions may also result in business disruptions that cause the Firm to lose customers or cause customers to move their business to competing financial institutions. It is possible that the integration process related to acquisitions could result in the disruption of the Firm’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect the Firm’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and other business partners. The loss of key employees in connection with an acquisition could adversely affect the Firm’s ability to successfully conduct its business.Risk ManagementJPMorgan Chase’s framework for managing risks and its risk management procedures and practices may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to the Firm.JPMorgan Chase’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to the Firm. The Firm has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which the Firm is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market 18  risk, interest rate risk, country risk, principal risk, operational risk, legal and fiduciary risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to the Firm’s risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that the Firm has not appropriately anticipated or identified. If the Firm’s risk management framework proves ineffective, the Firm could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. As the Firm’s businesses change and grow and the markets in which they operate continue to evolve, the Firm’s risk management framework may not always keep sufficient pace with those changes. As a result, there is the risk that the credit and market risks associated with new products or new business strategies may not be appropriately identified, monitored or managed. In addition, in a difficult or less liquid market environment, the Firm’s risk management strategies may not be effective because other market participants may be attempting to use the same or similar strategies to deal with the challenging market conditions. In such circumstances, it may be difficult for the Firm to reduce its risk positions due to the activity of such other market participants.The Firm’s products, including loans, leases, lending commitments, derivatives, trading account assets and assets held-for-sale, as well as cash management and clearing activities, expose the Firm to credit risk. As one of the nation’s largest lenders, the Firm has exposures arising from its many different products and counterparties, and the credit quality of the Firm’s exposures can have a significant impact on its earnings. The Firm establishes allowances for probable credit losses that are inherent in its credit exposure, including unfunded lending commitments. The Firm also employs stress testing and other techniques to determine the capital and liquidity necessary to protect the Firm in the event of adverse economic or market events. These processes are critical to the Firm’s financial results and condition, and require difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how economic conditions might impair the ability of the Firm’s borrowers and counterparties to repay their loans or other obligations. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that the Firm will fail to identify the proper factors or that the Firm will fail to accurately estimate the impact of factors that it identifies.JPMorgan Chase’s market-making businesses may expose the Firm to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that could cause the Firm to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit events, or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa) may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a financial instrument such as a derivative. Certain of the Firm’s derivative transactions require the physical settlement by delivery of securities, commodities or obligations that the Firm does not own; if the Firm is unable to obtain such securities, commodities or obligations  within the required timeframe for delivery, this could cause the Firm to forfeit payments otherwise due to it and could result in settlement delays, which could damage the Firm’s reputation and ability to transact future business. In addition, in situations where trades are not settled or confirmed on a timely basis, the Firm may be subject to heightened credit and operational risk, and in the event of a default, the Firm may be exposed to market and operational losses. In particular, disputes regarding the terms or the settlement procedures of derivative contracts could arise, which could force the Firm to incur unexpected costs, including transaction, legal and litigation costs, and impair the Firm’s ability to manage effectively its risk exposure from these products.Many of the Firm’s risk management strategies or techniques have a basis in historical market behavior, and all such strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management’s subjective judgment. For example, many models used by the Firm are based on assumptions regarding correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely, previously correlated indicators may make unrelated movements. These sudden market movements or unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements have in some circumstances limited the effectiveness of the Firm’s risk management strategies, causing the Firm to incur losses. The Firm cannot provide assurance that its risk management framework, including the Firm’s underlying assumptions or strategies, will at all times be accurate and effective.In connection with the Firm’s internal review of the reported losses in the synthetic credit portfolio managed by CIO, management concluded that during the first quarter of 2012 CIO’s risk management had been ineffective in dealing with the growth in the size and complexity of the portfolio during the first quarter of 2012. Among other matters, the Firm’s internal review found that CIO lacked a robust risk committee structure; that CIO’s risk limits were insufficiently granular and should have been reassessed in light of the positions being added to the synthetic credit portfolio in the first quarter of 2012; that CIO risk management was insufficiently engaged in the approval and implementation during the first quarter of 2012 of a new CIO Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) model related to the portfolio (before that model was discontinued and the previous model was restored); and that there was inadequate escalation to the Firm’s management of certain risk issues relating to the portfolio. The Firm has taken steps to correct such lapses, including, among other things, appointing a new Chief Risk Officer for CIO/Treasury/Corporate (“CTC”); adding resources and talent in CIO risk management; instituting new CTC risk committees to improve governance and controls and ensure tighter linkages between CIO, Treasury and other activities in the Corporate sector; and introducing more granular risk limits for CIO.  19Part IIn January 2013, JPMorgan Chase & Co. entered into a Consent Order with the Federal Reserve and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. entered into a Consent Order with the OCC relating to the banking regulators’ reviews of the CIO matter. These Consent Orders relate to risk management, model governance and other control functions related to CIO and certain other trading activities at the Firm. Many of the actions required by the Consent Orders have already been, or are in the process of being, implemented by the Firm.While the Firm has taken, and is taking, steps to correct the lapses in the CIO risk management framework, there is no assurance that new or additional lapses in the Firm’s risk management framework and governance structure could not occur in the future. Any such lapses or other inadequacies in the design or implementation of the Firm’s risk management framework, governance, procedures or practices could, individually or in the aggregate, cause unexpected losses for the Firm, materially and adversely affect the Firm’s financial condition and results of operations, require significant resources to remediate any risk management deficiency, attract heightened regulatory scrutiny, expose the Firm to regulatory investigations or legal proceedings, subject the Firm to fines, penalties or judgments, harm the Firm’s reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence.Lapses in disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect the Firm’s operations, profitability or reputation.The Firm is committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Nevertheless, in a firm as large and complex as JPMorgan Chase, lapses or deficiencies in disclosure controls and procedures or in the Firm’s internal control over financial reporting may occur from time to time. On July 13, 2012, the Firm reported that it had determined that a material weakness existed in its internal control over financial reporting at March 31, 2012. This determination related to the valuation control function for the synthetic credit portfolio managed by CIO during the first quarter of 2012. As a result of the material weakness, management also concluded that the Firm’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at March 31, 2012. Management has taken steps to remediate the internal control deficiency, including enhancing management supervision of valuation matters. The control deficiency was substantially remediated by June 30, 2012, and was closed-out by September 30, 2012.There can be no assurance that the Firm’s disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in the future or that a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting could not occur again. Any such lapses or deficiencies may materially and adversely affect the Firm’s business and results of operations or financial condition, restrict its ability to access the capital markets, require the Firm to expend significant resources to  correct the lapses or deficiencies, expose the Firm to regulatory or legal proceedings, subject it to fines, penalties or judgments, harm the Firm’s reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence.Other RisksThe financial services industry is highly competitive, and JPMorgan Chase’s inability to compete successfully may adversely affect its results of operations.JPMorgan Chase operates in a highly competitive environment and the Firm expects competitive conditions to continue to intensify as the financial services industry produces better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices.Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds, commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other Internet-based companies, and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies. Technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and Internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities trading. The Firm’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and variety of the Firm’s products and services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Ongoing or increased competition in any one or all of these areas may put downward pressure on prices for the Firm’s products and services or may cause the Firm to lose market share. Increased competition also may require the Firm to make additional capital investments in its businesses in order to remain competitive. These investments may increase expense or may require the Firm to extend more of its capital on behalf of clients in order to execute larger, more competitive transactions. The Firm cannot provide assurance that the significant competition in the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect its future results of operations.Competitors of the Firm’s non-U.S. wholesale businesses are typically subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. For example, the regulatory objectives underlying several provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including the prohibition on proprietary trading under the Volcker Rule and the derivatives “push-out” rules, have not been embraced by governments and regulatory agencies outside the United States and may not be implemented into law in most countries. The more restrictive laws and regulations applicable to U.S. financial services institutions, such as JPMorgan Chase, can put the Firm at a competitive disadvantage to its non-U.S. competitors, including 20  prohibiting the Firm from engaging in certain transactions, making the Firm’s pricing of certain transactions more expensive for clients or adversely affecting the Firm’s cost structure for providing certain products, all of which can reduce the revenue and profitability of the Firm’s wholesale businesses.JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of its business, and failure to do so may materially adversely affect the Firm’s performance.JPMorgan Chase’s employees are the Firm’s most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. The imposition on the Firm or its employees of restrictions on executive compensation may adversely affect the Firm’s ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and employees. If the Firm is unable to continue to retain and attract qualified employees, the Firm’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if incorrect, could cause unexpected losses in the future.Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, JPMorgan Chase is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its financial statements, including in determining allowances for credit losses, mortgage repurchase liability and reserves related to litigation, among other items. Certain of the Firm’s financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, available-for-sale securities, certain loans, MSRs, private equity investments, structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare the Firm’s financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, the Firm may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment. If assumptions or estimates underlying the Firm’s financial statements are incorrect, the Firm may experience material losses.Damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could damage its businesses.Maintaining trust in JPMorgan Chase is critical to the Firm’s ability to attract and maintain customers, investors and employees. Damage to the Firm’s reputation can therefore cause significant harm to the Firm’s business and prospects. Harm to the Firm’s reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, compliance failures, litigation or regulatory outcomes or governmental investigations. In addition, a failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality, or a failure or  perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to the Firm’s reputation. Adverse publicity regarding the Firm, whether or not true, may result in harm to the Firm’s prospects. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members of or individuals in the industry can also affect the Firm’s reputation. For example, the role played by financial services firms in the financial crisis, including concerns that consumers have been treated unfairly by financial institutions, has damaged the reputation of the industry as a whole. Should any of these or other events or factors that can undermine the Firm’s reputation occur, there is no assurance that the additional costs and expenses that the Firm may need to incur to address the issues giving rise to the reputational harm could not adversely affect the Firm’s earnings and results of operations.Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as the Firm continues to expand its business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among the Firm’s clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with the Firm, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, as well as cause serious reputational harm to the Firm.ITEM 1B