Item 1A below. Forward-looking statements
    speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no
    obligation to publicly update them.







 

 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 

 


    In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report,
    the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely
    affect our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair
    our business operations and financial condition.


 


    Our performance is affected by general economic and political
    conditions and taxation policies.


 

 


    Our results in the past have been, and in the future may
    continue to be, materially affected by changes in general
    economic and political conditions in the United States and other
    countries, including the interest rate environment in which we
    conduct business, the financial markets through which we access
    capital and currency, political unrest and terrorist acts in the
    United States or other countries in which we carry on business.


 

 


    The enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added
    tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in
    markets in which we are currently active or may be active in the
    future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our
    products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or
    on our results of operations.


 


    We operate in the highly competitive food industry.


 

 


    We face competition across our product lines, including
    ready-to-eat cereals and convenience foods, from other companies
    which have varying abilities to withstand changes in market
    conditions. Some of our competitors have substantial financial,
    marketing and other resources, and competition with them in our
    various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce
    prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or
    lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business and financial results. Category share and
    growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful
    in introducing new products.


 


    Our consolidated financial results and demand for our
    products are dependent on the successful development of new
    products and processes.


 

 


    There are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may
    impact us and the industry as a whole. These include changing
    consumer dietary trends and the availability of substitute
    products.


 

 


    Our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer
    preferences and on successful new product and process
    development and product relaunches in response to such changes.
    We aim to introduce products or new or improved production
    processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence
    and decreases in sales of existing products. While we devote
    significant focus to the development of new products and to the
    research, development and technology process functions of our
    business, we may not be successful in developing new products or
    our



    
    6



Table of Contents




    new products may not be commercially successful. Our future
    results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive
    position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of
    our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify,
    develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products
    in these changing markets.


 


    An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other
    acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated
    operating results and net worth.


 

 


    The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of
    acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and
    liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of
    other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade
    names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition
    date. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to
    contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but
    must be evaluated by management at least annually for
    impairment. If carrying value exceeds current fair value, the
    intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value
    via a charge to earnings. Events and conditions which could
    result in an impairment include changes in the industries in
    which we operate, including competition and advances in
    technology; a significant product liability or intellectual
    property claim; or other factors leading to reduction in
    expected sales or profitability. Should the value of one or more
    of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated
    earnings and net worth may be materially adversely affected.


 

 


    As of December 29, 2007, the carrying value of intangible
    assets totaled approximately $4.97 billion, of which
    $3.52 billion was goodwill and $1.45 billion
    represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired
    intangibles compared to total assets of $11.4 billion and
    shareholders’ equity of $2.53 billion.


 


    We may not achieve our targeted cost savings from cost
    reduction initiatives.


 

 


    Our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient
    producer in a highly competitive industry. We have invested a
    significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our
    operational facilities. Ongoing operational issues are likely to
    occur when carrying out major production, procurement, or
    logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to
    achieve our planned cost savings, could have a material adverse
    effect on our business and consolidated financial position and
    on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability.


 


    We have a substantial amount of indebtedness.


 

 


    We have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our
    shareholders’ equity. As of December 29, 2007, we had
    total debt of approximately $5.23 billion and
    shareholders’ equity of $2.53 billion.


 

 


    Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences,
    including:


 

 




    
    



        • 

        impairing the ability to obtain additional financing for working
    capital, capital expenditure or general corporate purposes,
    particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by
    rating organizations were revised downward;




 

 



        • 

        restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market
    conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a
    general downturn in economic conditions or our business;




 

 



        • 

        requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations
    to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our
    debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such
    as expansion through acquisitions, marketing spending and
    expansion of our product offerings; and




 

 



        • 

        causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors,
    which may place us at a competitive disadvantage.





 

 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our
    obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our
    financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject
    to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and
    interest rates on, short-term financing, and to financial,
    business and other factors beyond our control.


 


    Our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a
    result of increases in the price of raw materials, including
    agricultural commodities, fuel and labor.


 

 


    Agricultural commodities, including corn, wheat, soybean oil,
    sugar and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our
    products. Cartonboard, corrugated, and plastic are the principal
    packaging materials used by us. The cost of such commodities may
    fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation,
    weather conditions, or other unforeseen circumstances. To the
    extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of
    such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or
    adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that
    offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 

 


    Cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international
    facilities are regularly fuelled by natural gas or propane,
    which are obtained from local utilities or other local
    suppliers. Short-term stand-by propane storage exists at several
    plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies.
    Oil may also be used to fuel certain operations at various
    plants. In



    
    7



Table of Contents




    addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in
    connection with the distribution of our products. The cost of
    fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political
    conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other
    unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated operating results or financial
    condition.


 

 


    A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary
    pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could
    increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our consolidated operating results or financial conditions.


 

 


    Additionally, our labor costs include the cost of providing
    benefits for employees. We sponsor a number of defined benefit
    plans for employees in the United States and various foreign
    locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active
    health care, severance and other postemployment benefits. We
    also participate in a number of multiemployer pension plans for
    certain of our manufacturing locations. Our major pension plans
    and U.S. retiree health and welfare plans are funded with
    trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of
    equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate
    and other investments. The annual cost of benefits can vary
    significantly from year to year and is materially affected by
    such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return
    on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount
    rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health
    care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained
    wage and benefit agreements.


 


    We may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face
    of a consolidating retail environment. In addition, the loss of
    one of our largest customers could negatively impact our sales
    and profits.  


 

 


    Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates,
    accounted for approximately 19% of consolidated net sales during
    2007, comprised principally of sales within the United States.
    At December 29, 2007, approximately 13% of our consolidated
    receivables balance and 21% of our U.S. receivables balance
    was comprised of amounts owed by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its
    affiliates. During 2007, our top five customers, collectively,
    accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated net sales
    and approximately 40% of U.S. net sales. As the retail
    grocery trade continues to consolidate and mass marketers become
    larger, our large retail customers may seek to use their
    position to improve their profitability through improved
    efficiency, lower pricing and increased promotional programs. If
    we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product
    innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our
    profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. The
    loss of any large customer for an extended length of time could
    negatively impact our sales and profits.






 


    Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any
    inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products
    and brands.  


 

 


    We consider our intellectual property rights, including
    particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also including
    patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to
    be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt
    to protect our intellectual property rights through a
    combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret
    laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure
    and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of
    our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or adequately
    protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products,
    or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that
    serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our
    intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and
    could materially harm our business.


 

 


    We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that
    may cover some of our technology, brands or products. Any
    litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property
    could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the
    attention of our management and key personnel from our business
    operations. Third party claims of intellectual property
    infringement might also require us to enter into costly license
    agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or
    injunctions against development and sale of certain products.


 


    Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure
    to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations
    and laws could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial condition.  


 

 


    Our activities, both in and outside of the United States, are
    subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and
    local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Federal Trade
    Commission, the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce
    and Labor, as well as similar and other authorities of the
    European Union and various state, provincial and local
    governments, as well as voluntary regulation by other bodies.
    Various state and local agencies also regulate our activities.


 

 


    The manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products
    are subject to governmental regulation that is becoming
    increasingly onerous. Those regulations control such matters as
    ingredients, advertising, relations with distributors and
    retailers, health and safety and the environment. We are also
    regulated with respect to matters such as licensing
    requirements,



    
    8



Table of Contents




    trade and pricing practices, tax and environmental matters. The
    need to comply with new or revised tax, environmental or other
    laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or
    enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material
    adverse effect on our business and results of operations.


 


    Our operations face significant foreign currency exchange
    rate exposure which could negatively impact our operating
    results.  


 

 


    We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay
    expenses in a variety of currencies other than the
    U.S. dollar, primarily the British Pound, Euro, Australian
    dollar, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso. Because our
    consolidated financial statements are presented in
    U.S. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities,
    revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable
    exchange rates. Consequently, increases and decreases in the
    value of the U.S. dollar may negatively affect the value of
    these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if
    their value has not changed in their original currency. To the
    extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure
    adequately, our consolidated results of operations may be
    negatively affected.


 


    If our food products become adulterated or misbranded, we
    might need to recall those items and may experience product
    liability if consumers are injured as a result.


 

 


    We may need to recall some of our products if they become
    adulterated or misbranded. We may also be liable if the
    consumption of any of our products causes injury. A widespread
    product recall could result in significant losses due to the
    costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and
    lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of
    time. We could also suffer losses from a significant product
    liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or
    product liability case could also result in a loss of consumer
    confidence in our food products, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business results and the value of our
    brands.


 


    Technology failures could disrupt our operations and
    negatively impact our business.


 

 


    We increasingly rely on information technology systems to
    process, transmit, and store electronic information. For
    example, our production and distribution facilities and
    inventory management utilize information technology to increase
    efficiencies and limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion
    of the communications between our personnel, customers, and
    suppliers depends on information technology. Like other
    companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable
    to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control,
    including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist
    attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers,
    and other security issues. We have technology security
    initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place or in process
    to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these
    measures may not be adequate.







 

 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B