ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    An investment in our Common Shares is subject to risks inherent
    to our business, ownership of our equity securities and our
    industry. Described below are certain risks and uncertainties,
    the occurrence of which could have a material and adverse effect
    on KeyCorp. Before making an investment decision, you should
    carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below
    together with all of the other information included or
    incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and
    uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.
    Although we have significant risk management policies,
    procedures and practices aimed at mitigating these risks,
    uncertainties may nevertheless impair our business operations.
    This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.


 


    IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS,
    FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND/OR ACCESS TO
    LIQUIDITY AND/OR CREDIT COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY
    AFFECTED (“MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON US”). IF THIS
    WERE TO HAPPEN, THE VALUE OF OUR SECURITIES — COMMON
    SHARES, SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES B PREFERRED
    STOCK AND OUR TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES — COULD
    DECLINE, PERHAPS SIGNIFICANTLY, AND YOU COULD LOSE ALL OR
    PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT.


 



    Risks
    Related to our Business


 



    Certain
    industries, including the financial services industry, are more
    significantly affected by certain economic factors such as
    unemployment and real estate asset values. Should the
    improvement of these economic factors lag the improvement of the
    overall economy, or not occur, we could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Should the stabilization of the U.S. economy lead to a
    general economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic
    factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and
    rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall
    economy, or not occur at all. These economic factors typically
    affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial
    services, more significantly. For example, improvements in
    commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic
    recovery by twelve to eighteen months. Our clients include
    entities active in these industries. Furthermore, financial
    services companies, with a substantial lending business, like
    ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make
    debt service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real
    estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of
    time, it could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We are
    subject to market risks, including in the commercial real estate
    sector. Should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate
    market further deteriorate, our financial condition and results
    of operations could be adversely affected.


 


    The fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector remain
    weak, under continuing pressure by reduced asset values, rising
    vacancies and reduced rents. Commercial real estate values
    peaked in the fall of 2007, after gaining approximately 30%
    since 2005 and 90% since 2001. According to Moody’s Real
    Estate Analytics, LLC Commercial Property Index, at
    November 30, 2009, commercial real estate values were down
    43% from their peak. Many of our commercial real estate loans
    were originated between 2005 and 2007. A portion of our
    commercial real estate loans are construction loans. These
    properties are typically not fully leased at the origination of
    the loan, but the borrower may be reliant upon additional
    leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to
    support debt service payments. Weak economic conditions
    typically slow the execution of new leases; such conditions may
    also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these
    factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space
    are expected to continue to rise in 2010. Increased vacancies
    could result in rents falling further over the next several
    quarters. The combination of these factors could result in
    further weakening in the fundamentals underlying the commercial
    real estate market. Should these fundamentals continue to
    deteriorate as a result of further decline in asset values and
    the instability of rental income, it could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    Declining
    asset prices could adversely affect us.


 


    Over the last six quarters, the volatility and disruption that
    the capital and credit markets have experienced reached extreme
    levels. The market dislocations led to the failure of several
    substantial financial institutions, causing widespread
    liquidation of assets and further constraining credit markets.
    These asset sales, along with asset sales by





    
    11



Table of Contents





    other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly
    drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded
    asset classes. Asset price deterioration has a negative effect
    on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on
    our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at
    prices we deem acceptable. This could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 



    We are
    subject to credit risk.


 


    There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading
    activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact
    of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic
    conditions in the markets where we operate. Increases in
    interest rates
    and/or
    further weakening of economic conditions could adversely impact
    the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value
    of the collateral securing these loans.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, approximately 71% of our loan
    portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural
    loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial
    mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. These
    types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate
    loans and consumer loans. We closely monitor and manage risk
    concentrations and utilize various portfolio management
    practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible
    to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of
    commercial loans with relatively large balances.


 


    We also do business with environmentally sensitive industries
    and in connection with the development of Brownfield sites that
    provide appropriate business opportunities. We monitor and
    evaluate our borrowers for compliance with environmental-related
    covenants, which include covenants requiring compliance with
    applicable law. We take steps to mitigate risks; however, should
    political or other changes make it difficult for certain of our
    customers to maintain compliance with applicable covenants, our
    credit quality could be adversely affected.


 


    The deterioration of one or  more of any of our loans could
    cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could
    result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in
    the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan
    charge-offs, any of which could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on Us.


 


    We also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect
    our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws
    and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement
    action that could result in the assessment against us of civil
    money or other penalties, which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 



    The
    credit ratings of KeyCorp and KeyBank are important in order to
    maintain liquidity.


 


    Although KeyCorp’s and KeyBank’s long-term debt is
    currently rated investment-grade by the major rating agencies,
    the ratings of Key’s long-term debt, Series A
    Preferred Stock and certain of its other securities have been
    downgraded
    and/or put
    on negative outlook by those major rating agencies. These rating
    agencies regularly evaluate the securities of KeyCorp and
    KeyBank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other
    securities are based on a number of factors, including
    Key’s financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and
    other factors, some of which are not entirely within Key’s
    control, such as conditions affecting the financial services
    industry and the economy. In light of the difficulties in the
    financial services industry, the financial markets and the
    economy, there can be no assurance that Key will maintain its
    current ratings.


 


    If the securities of KeyCorp
    and/or
    KeyBank suffer additional ratings downgrades, such downgrades
    could adversely affect access to liquidity and could
    significantly increase Key’s cost of funds, trigger
    additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the
    number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to Key,
    thereby curtailing its business operations and reducing its
    ability to generate income. Further downgrades of the credit
    ratings of Key’s securities, particularly if they are below
    investment-grade, could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    There
    can be no assurance that the EESA, the American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Act of 2009, and other initiatives undertaken by
    the United States government to restore liquidity and stability
    to the U.S. financial system will help stabilize the U.S.
    financial system.


 


    The EESA was enacted and signed into law by President Bush in
    October 2008 in response to the ongoing financial crisis
    affecting the banking system and financial markets and going
    concern threats to investment banks and other financial
    institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has
    authority to, among other things, purchase up to





    
    12



Table of Contents





    $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities,
    preferred equity and warrants, and certain other financial
    instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of
    stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial
    markets. Under its authority provided by EESA, the
    U.S. Treasury established the CPP, and the core provisions
    of the Financial Stability Plan. There can be no assurance
    regarding the actual impact that the EESA, the American Recovery
    and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“Recovery Bill”), or
    other programs and initiatives undertaken by the
    U.S. government will have on the financial markets. The
    extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability
    experienced in late 2008 and through the third quarter of
    2009 may return or persist. Regional financial institutions
    have faced difficulties issuing debt in the fixed-income debt
    markets; these conditions could return and pose continued
    difficulties for the issuance of both medium term note and
    long-term subordinated note issuances. The failure of the EESA
    or other government programs to sufficiently contribute to
    financial market stability and put the U.S. economy on a
    path for an economic recovery could result in a continuation or
    worsening of current financial market conditions, which could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. In the event that any of
    the various forms of turmoil experienced in the financial
    markets continue, or, as the case may be, return or become
    exacerbated, there may be a Material Adverse Effect on Us from
    (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in
    financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity
    concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our
    transaction counterparties specifically, (3) limitations
    resulting from further governmental action to stabilize or
    provide additional regulation of the financial system, or
    (4) recessionary conditions that return, are deeper, or
    last longer than currently anticipated.


 



    The
    U.S. Treasury may require us to raise additional capital that
    would likely be dilutive to our Common Shares.


 


    In our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we reported
    that, under the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Assessment
    Program (“CAP”), we were required to participate in
    the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”) to
    determine whether we would be required to raise additional
    capital. As announced on May 7, 2009, under the SCAP
    assessment, we were required to increase the amount of our
    Tier 1 common equity by $1.8 billion within six
    months. We generated in excess of the $1.8 billion of
    additional Tier 1 common equity required by the SCAP
    results. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that our
    regulators, including the U.S. Treasury and the Federal
    Reserve Board, will not conduct additional “stress
    test” capital assessments outside of typical examination
    cycles, such as the SCAP,
    and/or
    require us to generate additional capital, including Tier 1
    common equity, in the future in the event of further negative
    economic circumstances, or in order for us to redeem our
    Series B Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury
    under the CPP. Any additional capital that KeyCorp generates in
    the future, whether through exchange offers, underwritten
    offerings of Common Shares, or other public or private
    transactions, would be dilutive to common shareholders and may
    reduce the market price of our Common Shares. These factors
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    The
    potential issuance of a significant amount of Common Shares or
    equity convertible into our Common Shares to a private investor
    or group of private investors may be dilutive and cause the
    market price of our Common Shares to decline.


 


    Having a significant shareholder may make some future
    transactions more difficult or perhaps impossible to complete
    without the support of such shareholder. The interests of the
    significant shareholder may not coincide with our interests or
    the interests of other shareholders. There can be no assurance
    that any significant shareholder will exercise its influence in
    our best interests as opposed to its best interests as a
    significant shareholder. A significant shareholder may make it
    difficult to approve certain transactions even if they are
    supported by the other shareholders, which may have an adverse
    effect on the market price of our Common Shares. These factors
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    Issuing
    a significant amount of common equity to a private investor may
    result in a change in control of KeyCorp under regulatory
    standards and contractual terms.


 


    Should KeyCorp obtain a significant amount of additional capital
    from any individual private investor, a change of control could
    occur under applicable regulatory standards and contractual
    terms. Such change of control may trigger notice, approval
    and/or other
    regulatory requirements in many states and jurisdictions in
    which we operate. We are a party to various contracts and other
    agreements that may require us to obtain consents from our
    respective contract counterparties in the event of a change in
    control. The failure to obtain any required regulatory consents
    or approvals or contractual consents due to a change in control
    may have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    Should
    we decide to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s Series B
    Preferred Stock, future issuance(s) of Common Shares may be
    necessary, which, if necessary, would likely result in
    significant dilution to holders of KeyCorp Common
    Shares.


 


    In conjunction with any repurchase of the Series B
    Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury, we may elect
    or be required by our regulators to increase the amount of our
    Tier 1 common equity through the sale of additional Common
    Shares. In addition, in connection with the
    U.S. Treasury’s purchase of the Series B
    Preferred Stock, pursuant to a Letter Agreement dated
    November 14, 2008, and the Securities Purchase
    Agreement — Standard Terms, the U.S. Treasury
    received a Warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our Common Shares
    at an initial per share exercise price of $10.64, subject to
    adjustment, which expires ten years from the issuance date, and
    we have agreed to provide the U.S. Treasury with
    registration rights covering the Warrant and the underlying
    Common Shares. The terms of the Warrant provide for a procedure,
    upon repurchase of the Series B Preferred Stock, to
    determine the value of the Warrant, and purchase the Warrant,
    within approximately 40 days of the repurchase of the
    Series B Preferred Stock. However, even if we were to
    redeem the Series B Preferred Stock, there is no assurance
    that this Warrant will be fully retired and, therefore, that it
    will not be exercised, prior to its expiration date. The
    issuance of additional Common Shares as a result of the exercise
    of the Warrant the U.S. Treasury holds would likely dilute
    the ownership interest of KeyCorp’s existing common
    shareholders.


 


    The terms of the Warrant provide that, if we issue Common Shares
    or securities convertible or exercisable into or exchangeable
    for Common Shares at a price that is less than 90% of the market
    price of such shares on the last trading day preceding the date
    of the agreement to sell such shares, the number and the per
    share price of Common Shares to be purchased pursuant to the
    Warrant will be adjusted pursuant to its terms. We may also
    choose to issue securities convertible into or exercisable for
    our Common Shares and such securities may themselves contain
    anti-dilution provisions. Such anti-dilution adjustment
    provisions may have a further dilutive effect on other holders
    of our Common Shares.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will not in the future
    determine that it is advisable, or that we will not encounter
    circumstances where we determine that it is necessary, to issue
    additional Common Shares, securities convertible into or
    exchangeable for Common Shares or common-equivalent securities
    to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to
    build additional capital. The market price of our Common Shares
    could decline as a result of such exchange offerings, as well as
    other sales of a large block of our Common Shares or similar
    securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such
    sales could occur. These factors could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 



    We may
    not be permitted to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s TARP CPP
    investment if and when we request approval to do
    so.


 


    We have generated in excess of the $1.8 billion in
    additional Tier 1 common equity required by the SCAP. While
    it is our plan to repurchase the Series B Preferred Stock
    as soon as practicable, in order to repurchase such securities,
    in whole or in part, we must establish to our regulators
    satisfaction that we have satisfied all of the conditions to
    repurchase and must obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve
    and the U.S. Treasury. There can be no assurance that we
    will be able to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s TARP
    investment in our Series B Preferred Stock. In addition to
    limiting our ability to return capital to our shareholders, the
    U.S. Treasury’s investment could limit our ability to
    retain key executives and other key employees, and limit our
    ability to develop business opportunities. These factors could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    During
    2009, disruptions and volatility in financial markets adversely
    affected KeyCorp. These factors could continue to affect
    KeyCorp. Our actions in response to these financial market
    disruptions may not be sufficient to mitigate the effects of
    market uncertainties and other risks presented.


 


    The capital and credit markets, including the fixed income
    markets, experienced extreme volatility and disruption between
    July 2007 and October 2009. The disruptions in the capital and
    credit markets reached unprecedented levels during the third and
    fourth quarters of 2008. As a result of the severe economic
    conditions, in 2009, we, and many financial institutions similar
    to us, generated and raised Tier 1 common equity through
    exchanges of existing trust preferred securities or preferred
    equity for common stock,
    at-the-market
    offerings of common stock or underwritten offerings of common
    stock, or a combination of the foregoing. Until the middle of
    the third quarter of 2009, regional financial institutions
    continued to encounter difficulties in the fixed income markets.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    While most economists generally agree that the U.S. economy
    has stabilized, it remains unclear whether a sustainable
    recovery is underway. Uncertainties in the financial markets
    continue to present significant challenges, particularly for the
    financial services industry. As a financial services company,
    our operations and financial condition are significantly
    affected by general economic and market conditions. During 2009,
    the continued disruptions in the financial markets caused
    markdowns
    and/or
    losses by financial institutions from trading, hedging and other
    market activities, resulting in reduced earnings for many
    financial institutions. Additionally, financial institutions
    with lending operations faced substantial loan losses due to
    high unemployment, reduced real estate asset values and
    1.43 million bankruptcy filings in 2009, representing an
    increase of 32% from 2008. Unemployment at December 31,
    2009 was above 10%, up from 7.4% at December 31, 2008. We
    were similarly affected by these factors. During 2009, we
    increased our provision for loan losses by $1.622 billion
    or 106% in response to the continued deterioration in our loan
    portfolios resulting from the economic decline. During 2009, we
    also recorded noncash accounting charges of $268 million
    due to intangible assets impairment resulting from a decline in
    the fair value of our National Banking unit, reflecting the
    extreme weakness in financial markets, and our decisions to wind
    down the operations of Austin Capital Management Ltd.
    (“Austin”) and cease conducting our business in the
    commercial vehicle and office equipment leasing markets. It is
    difficult to predict how long these challenging economic
    conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other
    businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether our actions
    will effectively mitigate these extreme external factors.
    Furthermore, the models that we use to assess the
    creditworthiness of customers and to estimate losses inherent in
    our credit exposure may become less predictive due to
    fundamental changes in the U.S. economy. Accordingly, these
    factors could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We are
    subject to interest rate risk.


 


    Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net
    interest income. Net interest income is the difference between
    interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans
    and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing
    liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates
    are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our
    control, including general economic conditions, the competitive
    environment within our markets, consumer preferences for
    specific loan and deposit products and policies of various
    governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the
    Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including
    changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount
    of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of
    interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes
    could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain
    deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and
    liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other
    borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we
    receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income,
    and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings
    could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on
    loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest
    we pay on deposits and other borrowings. We use simulation
    analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate exposure based
    on assumptions and judgments related to balance sheet changes,
    customer behavior, new products, new business volume, product
    pricing, competitor behavior, the behavior of market interest
    rates and anticipated hedging activities. Simulation analysis
    involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of
    future risks and trends. Accordingly, there can be no assurance
    that actual results will not differ from those derived in
    simulation analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency
    of interest rate changes, actual hedging strategies employed,
    changes in balance sheet composition, and the possible effects
    of unanticipated or unknown events.


 


    Although we believe we have implemented effective asset and
    liability management strategies, including simulation analysis
    and the use of interest rate derivatives as hedging instruments,
    to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on
    our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in market interest rates could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We are
    subject to other market risk.


 


    Traditionally, market factors such as changes in foreign
    exchange rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the
    financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and other
    unrelated financial companies have the potential to affect
    current market values of financial instruments. During 2008,
    market events demonstrated this to an extreme. Between July 2007
    and October 2009, conditions in the fixed income markets,
    specifically the wider credit spreads





    
    15



Table of Contents





    over benchmark U.S. Treasury securities for many fixed
    income securities, caused significant volatility in the market
    values of loans, securities, and certain other financial
    instruments that are held in our trading or
    held-for-sale
    portfolios. Opportunities to minimize the adverse affects of
    market changes are not always available. It is possible that
    such volatility and adverse effects will continue over a
    prolonged period of time
    and/or
    worsen over time. It is not possible for us to predict whether
    there will be further substantial changes in the financial
    markets that could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    The
    soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect
    us.


 


    Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be
    adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of
    other financial institutions. Financial services to institutions
    are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty
    or other relationships. We have exposure to many different
    industries and counterparties, and routinely execute
    transactions with counterparties in the financial industry,
    including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment
    banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients.
    During 2008, Key incurred $54 million of derivative-related
    charges as a result of market disruption caused by the failure
    of Lehman Brothers. Another example of losses related to this
    type of risk is the losses associated with the Bernie Madoff
    ponzi scheme (“Madoff ponzi scheme”). As a result of
    the Madoff ponzi scheme, our investment subsidiary, Austin,
    determined that its funds had suffered investment losses up to
    $186 million. Following Lehman Brothers failure, we took
    several steps to better measure, monitor, and mitigate our
    counterparty risks and to reduce these exposures. This includes
    daily position measurement and reporting, the use of scenario
    analysis and stress testing, replacement cost estimation, risk
    mitigation strategies, and market feedback validation.


 


    Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more
    financial services institutions, or the financial services
    industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems
    and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other
    institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit
    risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In
    addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral
    held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices
    insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
    derivative exposure due us. It is not possible to anticipate all
    of these risks and it is not feasible to mitigate these risks
    completely. Accordingly, there is no assurance that losses from
    such risks would not have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We are
    subject to liquidity risk.


 


    Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the
    level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to
    accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet
    contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business
    transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and
    without adverse consequences. Although we have implemented
    strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding
    to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in
    assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions,
    any substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us. Certain credit markets that we
    participate in and rely upon as sources of funding were
    significantly disrupted and volatile from the third quarter of
    2007 through the third quarter of 2009. These conditions in the
    recent past increase our liquidity risk exposure, and could
    return. While the credit markets have improved, the availability
    of credit and the cost of funds remain tight and more expensive
    than typical for an economy with a growing gross domestic
    product. Part of our strategy to reduce liquidity risk involves
    promoting customer deposit growth, exiting certain noncore
    lending businesses, diversifying our funding base, maintaining a
    liquid asset portfolio, and strengthening our capital base to
    reduce our need for debt as a source of liquidity. Many of these
    disrupted markets are showing signs of recovery. Nonetheless, if
    further market disruption or other factors reduce the cost
    effectiveness
    and/or the
    availability of supply in the credit markets for a prolonged
    period of time, we may need to expand the utilization of
    unsecured wholesale funding instruments, or use other potential
    means of accessing funding and managing liquidity such as
    generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans,
    extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing
    deposits from other banks, borrowing under certain secured
    wholesale facilities, and utilizing relationships developed with
    fixed income investors in a variety of markets —
    domestic, European and Canadian — as well as increased
    management of loan growth and investment opportunities and other
    management tools. There can





    
    16



Table of Contents





    be no assurance that these alternative means of funding will be
    available; under certain stressed conditions experienced during
    the liquidity crisis, some of these alternative means of funding
    were not available. Should these forms of funding become
    unavailable, it is unclear what impact, given current economic
    conditions, unavailability of such funding would have on us. A
    deep and prolonged disruption in the markets could have the
    effect of significantly restricting the accessibility of cost
    effective capital and funding, which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    Various
    factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to
    increase.


 


    We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve
    established through a provision for loan losses charged to
    expense, that represents our estimate of losses within the
    existing portfolio of loans. The allowance is necessary to
    reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan
    portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects our ongoing
    evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks,
    loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present
    economic, political and regulatory conditions, and unexpected
    losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination
    of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses
    inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that
    we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future
    trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in
    economic conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of
    certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to,
    such as unemployment and real estate values, new information
    regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem
    loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control,
    may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In
    addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our
    allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the
    provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan
    charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from
    those of our own management. In addition, if charge-offs in
    future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses
    (i.e., if the loan allowance is inadequate), we will need
    additional loan loss provisions to increase the allowance for
    loan losses. Additional provisions to increase the allowance for
    loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a
    decrease in net income and capital and may have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We are
    subject to operational risk.


 


    Like all businesses, we are subject to operational risk, which
    represents the risk of loss resulting from human error,
    inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and
    external events. Operational risk also encompasses compliance
    (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or
    noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed
    practices or ethical standards. We are also exposed to
    operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the
    affect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our
    outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to
    perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as
    certain loan processing functions. Additionally, some of our
    outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and therefore are
    subject to political risks unique to the regions in which they
    operate. Although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a
    system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational
    risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased
    operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone
    opportunities, any and all of which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    Our
    profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in
    the geographic regions in which we operate.


 


    Our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the
    markets in which we operate. We have concentrations of loans and
    other business activities in geographic areas where our branches
    are located — the Northwest, the Rocky Mountains, the
    Great Lakes and the Northeast — as well as potential
    exposure to geographic areas outside of our branch footprint.
    For example, the nonowner-occupied properties segment of our
    commercial real estate portfolio has exposures in several
    markets outside of our footprint. Real estate values and cash
    flows have been negatively affected on a national basis due to
    weak economic conditions. Certain markets, such as Florida,
    southern California, Phoenix, Arizona, and Las Vegas, Nevada,
    have experienced more significant deterioration. The
    delinquencies, nonperforming loans and charge-offs that we have
    experienced have been more heavily weighted to these specific
    markets. As a result of these and other economic factors, we
    recently increased the provision for loan losses. The regional
    economic conditions in areas in which we conduct our business
    have an impact on the demand





    
    17



Table of Contents





    for our products and services as well as the ability of our
    customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing
    loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. A
    significant decline in general economic conditions caused by
    inflation, recession, an act of terrorism, outbreak of
    hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences,
    unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors,
    such as severe declines in the value of homes and other real
    estate, could also impact these regional economies and, in turn,
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and market
    areas.


 


    We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations
    from a variety of different competitors, many of which are
    larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors
    primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as
    smaller community banks within the various markets in which we
    operate. We also face competition from many other types of
    financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings
    associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance
    companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment
    management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and
    other local, regional and national financial services firms. In
    recent years, while the breadth of the institutions that we
    compete with has increased, competition has intensified as a
    result of consolidation efforts. During 2009, competition
    continued to intensify as the challenges of the liquidity crisis
    and market disruption led to further redistribution of deposits
    and certain banking assets to stronger and larger financial
    institutions. We expect this trend to continue. The competitive
    landscape was also affected by the conversion of traditional
    investment banks to bank holding companies during the liquidity
    crisis due to the access it provides to government-sponsored
    sources of liquidity. The financial services industry’s
    competitive landscape could become even more intensified as a
    result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological
    changes and continued consolidation. Also, technology has
    lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to
    offer products and services traditionally provided by banks.


 


    Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of
    factors, including, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and
    initiatives;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term
    customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical
    standards and safe, sound assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to expand our market position;




 



     
        • 

    
    the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services
    offered to meet customer needs and demands;




 



     
        • 

    
    the rate at which we introduce new products and services
    relative to our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to attract and retain talented executives and
    relationship managers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    industry and general economic trends.





 


    Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly
    weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect
    our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We are
    subject to extensive government regulation and
    supervision.


 


    We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and
    supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to
    protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds
    and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These
    regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure,
    investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other
    things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually
    review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible
    changes. It is likely that there will be significant changes to
    the banking and financial institutions’ regulatory regime
    in light of recent events affecting the financial services
    industry. It is not possible to predict the scope of such
    changes or their potential impact on our results of operations.


 


    For example, President Obama announced in January 2010 a reform
    proposal to: (1) limit the scope of financial institutions
    and ensure that a bank will not own, invest in or sponsor a
    hedge fund or a private equity fund, or have proprietary trading
    operations unrelated to its service of its customers for its own
    profit; and (2) limit further consolidation of the
    financial sector. This proposal — sometimes referred
    to by the media as the Volcker Rule —





    
    18



Table of Contents





    aims to place limits on the growth of market share at the
    largest financial firms, supplementing the existing caps on
    market share of deposits. It is impossible to predict whether
    President Obama’s proposal for financial regulatory reform
    will succeed or what the impact of any financial reform proposal
    would be on us or the banking industry generally. If this
    financial reform proposal is adopted in some form, it may, for
    example, limit the scope of financial services and investments
    that financial institutions with commercial banks may invest in,
    impose additional capital and liquidity standards,
    and/or limit
    the size of financial institutions in order to avoid any moral
    hazard associated with financial institutions deemed to big to
    fail. These types of reform could limit our ability to conduct
    certain of our businesses, such as funds that are part of our
    investment adviser subsidiary, Victory Capital Management Inc.,
    or funds sponsored and advised by, and investments in private
    equity funds made by, our principal investing line of business,
    which could require us to divest or spin-off certain of our
    business units and private equity investments. Furthermore, as
    part of the SCAP, Key was identified as a financial institution
    that was one of nineteen firms that collectively hold two-thirds
    of the banking assets and more than one-half of the loans in the
    U.S. banking system. While it is difficult to predict if
    regulatory reform will occur and the extent or nature of
    regulatory reform, should regulatory reform limit the size of
    the SCAP banks, our ability to pursue opportunities to achieve
    growth through the acquisition of other banks or deposits could
    be affected, which, in turn could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on Us.


 


    Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes
    in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations
    or policies;
    and/or
    continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices,
    requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways, and could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the
    types of financial services and products that we may offer
    and/or
    increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial
    services and products, among other things. Failure to
    appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies
    (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent
    such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory
    agencies, civil money penalties
    and/or
    reputation damage, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us.


 



    Our
    controls and procedures may fail or be
    circumvented.


 


    We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure
    controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and
    procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and
    operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can
    provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the
    objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention
    of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with
    regulations related to controls and procedures could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We
    rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our
    funds.


 


    KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its
    subsidiaries. With the exception of cash raised from debt and
    equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow
    from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the
    principal source of funds to pay dividends on our Common Shares
    and interest and principal on our debt. Federal banking law and
    regulations limit the amount of dividends that KeyBank
    (KeyCorp’s largest subsidiary) and certain nonbank
    subsidiaries may pay to KeyCorp. During 2008 and 2009, KeyBank
    did not pay any dividends to KeyCorp; nonbank subsidiaries paid
    KeyCorp $.8 million in dividends during 2009. As of the
    close of business on December 31, 2009, KeyBank would not
    have been permitted to pay dividends to KeyCorp without prior
    regulatory approval since the bank had a net loss of
    $1.151 billion for 2009 and a net loss of
    $1.161 billion for 2008. For further information on the
    regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by KeyBank
    see “Supervision and Regulation — Dividend
    Restrictions” of this report.


 


    Also, KeyCorp’s right to participate in a distribution of
    assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is
    subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.
    In the event KeyBank is unable to pay dividends to KeyCorp, we
    may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay
    dividends on our Common Shares. The inability to receive
    dividends from KeyBank could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us.




    
    19



Table of Contents






    Our
    earnings and/or financial condition may be affected by changes
    in accounting principles and in tax laws, or the interpretation
    of them.


 


    Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. Although these
    changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they
    could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain
    performance measures.


 


    Like all businesses, we are subject to tax laws, rules and
    regulations. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations,
    including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax
    laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or
    other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional
    costs, among other things. Failure to appropriately comply with
    tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by
    regulatory agencies, civil money penalties
    and/or
    reputation damage, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us.


 


    Additionally, we conduct quarterly assessments of our deferred
    tax assets. The carrying value of these assets is dependent upon
    earnings forecasts and prior period earnings, among other
    things. A significant change in our assumptions could affect the
    carrying value of our deferred tax assets on our balance sheet,
    which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    Potential
    acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder
    value.


 


    Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various
    risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the
    target company;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and
    personnel of the target company;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential disruption to our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential diversion of our management’s time and attention;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target
    company;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the
    target company;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets,
    liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may
    affect the target company.





 


    We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and
    conduct due diligence activities related to possible
    transactions with other financial institutions and financial
    services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition
    discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and
    future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity
    securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve
    the payment of a premium over book and market values, and,
    therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net
    income per common share may occur in connection with any future
    transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected
    revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or
    product presence,
    and/or other
    projected benefits from an acquisition could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We may
    not be able to attract and retain skilled people.


 


    Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract
    and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most
    activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may
    not be able to retain or hire the people we want
    and/or need.
    In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must
    compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those
    levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest
    expense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain
    qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our
    competitive position, our performance, including our competitive
    position, could suffer, and, in turn, have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us. Although we maintain employment agreements with
    certain key employees, and have incentive compensation





    
    20



Table of Contents





    plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the
    unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel
    could still occur, and such events may have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us because of the loss of the employee’s skills,
    knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the
    difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel
    for our talented executives
    and/or
    relationship managers.


 


    Pursuant to the standardized terms of the CPP, among other
    things, we agreed to institute certain restrictions on the
    compensation of certain senior executive management positions
    that could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or
    retain the most qualified senior executives. Other restrictions
    may also be imposed under the Recovery Bill or other legislation
    or regulations. Our ability to attract
    and/or
    retain talented executives
    and/or
    relationship managers may be affected by these developments or
    any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    Our
    information systems may experience an interruption or breach in
    security.


 


    We rely heavily on communications and information systems to
    conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in
    security of these systems could result in failures or
    disruptions in our customer relationship management, general
    ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies
    and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the
    possible failure, interruption or security breach of our
    information systems, there can be no assurance that any such
    failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if
    any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. The
    occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of
    our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a
    loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory
    scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible
    financial liability, any of which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 



    We
    continually encounter technological change.


 


    The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid
    technological change with frequent introductions of new
    technology-driven products and services. The effective use of
    technology increases efficiency and enables financial
    institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our
    future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the
    needs of our customers by using technology to provide products
    and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to
    create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest
    competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in
    technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively
    implement new technology-driven products and services or be
    successful in marketing these products and services to our
    customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological
    change affecting the financial services industry could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    We are
    subject to claims and litigation.


 


    From time to time, customers
    and/or
    vendors may make claims and take legal action against us. We
    maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate
    based upon our assessment of the claims. Whether any particular
    claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such
    claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may
    result in significant financial liability
    and/or
    adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products
    and services as well as impact customer demand for those
    products and services. We are also involved, from time to time,
    in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal
    and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies
    regarding our business, including, among other things,
    accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result
    in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions
    or other relief. The number of these investigations and
    proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many
    firms in the financial services industry. There have also been a
    number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct
    by employees in the financial services industry in recent years,
    and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is
    not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and
    the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may
    not be effective in all cases. Any financial liability for which
    we have not adequately maintained reserves,
    and/or any
    reputation damage from such claims and legal actions, could have
    a Material Adverse Effect on Us.




    
    21



Table of Contents






    Severe
    weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other
    external events could significantly impact our
    business.


 


    Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and
    other adverse external events could have a significant impact on
    our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the
    stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers
    to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral
    securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in
    loss of revenue
    and/or cause
    us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established
    disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitor for
    significant environmental effects on our properties or our
    investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Our Common Shares


 



    Our
    issuance of securities to the U.S. Treasury may limit our
    ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to
    our Common Shares. If we are unable to redeem such preferred
    shares, the dividend rate increases substantially after five
    years.


 


    In connection with our sale of $2.5 billion of the
    Series B Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury in
    conjunction with its CPP, we also issued a Warrant to purchase
    35,244,361 of our Common Shares at an exercise price of $10.64.
    The number of shares was determined based upon the requirements
    of the CPP, and was calculated based on the average market price
    of our Common Shares for the 20 trading days preceding approval
    of our issuance (which was also the basis for the exercise price
    of $10.64). The terms of the transaction with the
    U.S. Treasury include limitations on our ability to pay
    dividends and repurchase our Common Shares. For three years
    after the issuance or until the U.S. Treasury no longer
    holds any Series B Preferred Stock, we will not be able to
    increase our dividends above the level of our quarterly dividend
    declared during the third quarter of 2008 ($0.1875 per common
    share on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our Common
    Shares or preferred stock without, among other things,
    U.S. Treasury approval or the availability of certain
    limited exceptions, e.g., purchases in connection with
    our benefit plans. Furthermore, as long as the Series B
    Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding,
    dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to
    certain equity securities, including our Common Shares, are
    prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on
    such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions.
    These restrictions, combined with the dilutive impact of the
    Warrant, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our
    Common Shares, and, as a result, they could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 


    Unless we are able to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock
    during the first five years, the dividend payments on this
    capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5%
    ($125 million annually) to 9% ($225 million annually).
    Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in
    dividends could significantly impact our liquidity and, as a
    result, have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    You
    may not receive dividends on the Common Shares.


 


    Holders of our Common Shares are only entitled to receive such
    dividends as the Board of Directors may declare out of funds
    legally available for such payments. Furthermore, our common
    shareholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any
    holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing
    such preferred stock then outstanding. As of February 24,
    2010, there were 2,904,839 shares of KeyCorp’s
    Series A Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of
    $100 per share issued and outstanding and 25,000 shares of
    the Series B Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference
    of $100,000 per share issued and outstanding.


 


    In July 2009, we reduced the quarterly dividend on our Common
    Shares to $0.01 per share. We do not expect to increase the
    quarterly dividend above $0.01 for the foreseeable future. We
    could decide to eliminate our Common Shares dividend altogether.
    Furthermore, as long as our Series A Preferred Stock and
    the Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, dividend
    payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain
    equity securities, including our Common Shares, are prohibited
    until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such
    preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. In
    addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless we have
    redeemed all of the Series B Preferred Stock or the
    U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series B
    Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the
    U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other
    things, increase our Common Shares dividend above $.1875 except
    in limited circumstances. This could adversely affect the market
    price of our Common Shares. Also, KeyCorp is a bank holding
    company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is
    dependent on certain federal





    
    22



Table of Contents





    regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the
    Federal Reserve Board regarding capital adequacy and dividends.


 


    In addition, terms of KeyBank’s outstanding junior
    subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or
    paying any dividends or distributions on KeyCorp’s capital
    stock, including its Common Shares, or purchasing, acquiring, or
    making a liquidation payment on such stock, if an event of
    default has occurred and is continuing under the applicable
    indenture, if we are in default with respect to a guarantee
    payment under the guarantee of the related capital securities or
    if we have given notice of our election to defer interest
    payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced
    or a deferral period is continuing. These factors could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    KeyCorp
    was required to conduct stress tests pursuant to the U.S.
    Treasury’s CAP and could be required to conduct additional
    stress tests and raise additional capital that would be dilutive
    to our Common Shares and may limit our ability to return capital
    to our shareholders.


 


    On February 25, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced
    preliminary details of the CAP component of its Financial
    Stability Plan. The CAP was implemented to ensure the continued
    ability of U.S. financial institutions to lend to
    creditworthy borrowers in the event of a weaker than expected
    economic environment and larger than expected potential losses.
    Following the conduct of such stress tests, our regulators
    determined that we needed to generate an additional
    $1.8 billion of Tier 1 common equity.


 


    We completed various capital transactions, generating in excess
    of $1.8 billion of additional Tier 1 common equity.
    Should the U.S. Treasury and our banking regulators
    determine that additional stress testing is necessary, or in
    order to receive approval to redeem our Series B Preferred,
    we may need to raise additional capital. Should this happen, we
    may only have a limited window to raise that capital. Should we
    need to issue additional equity capital, it would be dilutive to
    our Common Shares and may limit our ability to return capital to
    our shareholders. These factors may have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 



    Our
    share price can be volatile.


 


    Share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to
    resell your Common Shares when you want and at prices you find
    attractive. Our share price can fluctuate significantly in
    response to a variety of factors including, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    recommendations by securities analysts;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating and stock price performance of other companies that
    investors deem comparable to our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets,
    including the market for mortgage-related securities;




 



     
        • 

    
    news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in
    the financial services industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    perceptions of us
    and/or our
    competitors in the marketplace;




 



     
        • 

    
    new technology used, or products or services offered, by
    competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic
    partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into
    by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated
    benefits from acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    future sales of our equity or equity-related securities;




 



     
        • 

    
    our past and future dividend practices;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations affecting our industry
    generally or our business and operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in global financial markets, economies and market
    conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock,
    commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility;







    
    23



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or
    military conflicts; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the occurrence or nonoccurrence, as appropriate, of any
    circumstance described in these Risk Factors.





 


    General market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors
    and general economic and political conditions and events, such
    as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or
    credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease
    regardless of operating results. Any of these factors could have
    a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    An
    investment in our Common Shares is not an insured
    deposit.


 


    Our Common Shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not
    insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance
    fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our
    Common Shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in
    this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this
    report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the
    price of common shares in any company. As a result, if you
    acquire our Common Shares, you may lose some or all of your
    investment.


 



    Our
    articles of incorporation and regulations, as well as certain
    banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect.


 


    Provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and
    federal banking laws, including regulatory approval
    requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to
    acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial
    to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may
    inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination,
    which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our
    Common Shares.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Our Industry


 



    Difficult
    market conditions have adversely affected the financial services
    industry, business and results of operations.


 


    The dramatic deterioration experienced in the housing market led
    to weakness across geographies, industries, and ultimately the
    broad economy. Over the last 30 months, the housing market
    experienced falling home prices, increasing foreclosures;
    unemployment and under-employment rose significantly; and
    weakened commercial real estate fundamentals negatively impacted
    the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in
    significant write-downs of asset values by financial
    institutions, including government-sponsored entities, and
    commercial and investment banks. The resulting write-downs to
    assets of financial institutions have caused many financial
    institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger
    and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government
    assistance or bankruptcy protection. It is not possible to
    predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of
    our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be
    affected, and whether our actions and government remediation
    efforts will effectively mitigate these factors. Accordingly,
    the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in
    the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased
    volatility in the financial markets and reduced business
    activity could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.
    Furthermore, continued deterioration in economic conditions
    could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and
    nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a
    decrease in demand for our products and services, among other
    things, any of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 


    As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions,
    we may face the following risks, including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal
    standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in
    connection with the EESA, the Recovery Bill or other government
    initiatives. Compliance with such regulation will likely
    increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business
    opportunities.




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our
    customers if the models and approaches we use to select, manage,
    and underwrite customers become less predictive of future
    behaviors due to fundamental changes in economic conditions.







    
    24



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit
    exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments,
    including forecasts of economic conditions and how these
    economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers
    to repay their loans. In a highly uncertain economic
    environment, these processes may no longer be capable of
    accurate estimation and, in turn, may impact the reliability of
    our evaluation of our credit risk and exposure.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to
    engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms
    or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in
    the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating
    agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased intensity of competition in the financial services
    industry due to: (i) the continued trend of mergers of
    financial institutions with stronger and larger financial
    institutions and the redistribution of FDIC-insured deposits and
    certain banking assets through the FDIC least-cost resolution
    process, and (ii) the conversion of certain investment
    banks to bank holding companies. We expect competition to
    intensify as a result of these changes to the competitive
    landscape. Should competition in the financial services industry
    continue to intensify, our ability to market products and
    services may be adversely affected.




 



     
        • 

    
    We will be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in
    the future because market developments have significantly
    depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of
    reserves to insured deposits. We are also likely to be required
    to pay other fees necessary to support the EESA, the Recovery
    Bill and other government efforts.




 



     
        • 

    
    Financial institutions may be required, regardless of risk, to
    pay taxes or other fees to the U.S. Treasury. Such taxes or
    other fees could be designed to reimburse the U.S. Treasury
    for the many government programs and initiatives it has
    undertaken as part of its economic stimulus efforts.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to attract key executives
    and/or other
    key employees may be hindered as a result of executive
    compensation limits as a result of our participation in the CPP
    and/or
    regulations that may be issued by the U.S. Treasury or
    other regulators pursuant to its authority under the EESA or the
    Recovery Bill. Furthermore, we may lose key executives
    and/or other
    key employees as a result of such limitations.





 



    Financial
    services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of
    information about customers and counterparties.


 


    In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
    transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on
    behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial
    statements, credit reports and other financial information. We
    may also rely on representations of those customers,
    counterparties or other third parties, such as independent
    auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that
    information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial
    statements, credit reports or other financial information could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 



    Consumers
    may decide not to use banks to complete their financial
    transactions.


 


    Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete
    through alternative methods financial transactions that
    historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now
    maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would
    have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also
    complete transactions such as paying bills
    and/or
    transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The
    process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as
    “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee
    income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related
    income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue
    streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B