Item 1A: Risk Factors in this report.





 


    Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak
    only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any
    obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect
    the impact of subsequent events or circumstances. Before making
    an investment decision, you should carefully consider all risks
    and uncertainties disclosed in our SEC filings, including our
    reports on
    Forms 8-K,
    10-K and
    10-Q and our
    registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, all of which are accessible on the SEC’s website
    at www.sec.gov and on our website at www.Key.com/IR.


 





    Overview


 


    KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the State of Ohio,
    is headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio. We are a bank holding
    company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended
    (“BHCA”), and are one of the nation’s largest
    bank-based financial services companies, with consolidated total
    assets of $91.8 billion at December 31, 2010. KeyCorp
    is the parent holding company for KeyBank National Association
    (“KeyBank”), its principal subsidiary, through which
    most of our banking services are provided. Through KeyBank and
    certain other subsidiaries, we provide a wide range of retail
    and commercial banking, commercial leasing, investment
    management, consumer finance and investment banking products and
    services to individual, corporate and institutional clients
    through two major business segments: Key Community Bank and Key
    Corporate Bank.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, these services were provided
    across the country through KeyBank’s 1,033 full-service
    retail banking branches in fourteen states, additional offices,
    a telephone banking call center services group and a network of
    1,531 automated teller machines (“ATMs”) in fifteen
    states. Additional information pertaining to our two business
    segments is included in this report in Item 7.
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations (the “MD&A”), in the
    “Line of Business Results” section, and in
    Note 21 (“Line of Business Results”) of the Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements presented in
    Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data are
    incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries
    had an average of 15,610 full-time equivalent employees for
    2010.


 


    In addition to the customary banking services of accepting
    deposits and making loans, our bank and trust company
    subsidiaries offer personal and corporate trust services,
    personal financial services, access to mutual funds, cash
    management services, investment banking and capital markets
    products, and international banking services. Through our bank,
    trust company and registered investment adviser subsidiaries, we
    provide investment management services to clients that include
    large corporate and public retirement plans, foundations and
    endowments,
    high-net-worth
    individuals and multi-employer trust funds established for
    providing pension or other benefits to employees.


 


    We provide other financial services — both within and
    outside of our primary banking markets — through
    various nonbank subsidiaries. These services include principal
    investing, community development financing, securities
    underwriting and brokerage, and merchant services. We also are
    an equity participant in a joint venture that provides merchant
    services to businesses.


 


    KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banks
    and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of KeyCorp, its
    security holders and its creditors to participate in any
    distribution of the assets or earnings of its banks and other
    subsidiaries is subject to the prior claims of the creditors of
    such banks and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that
    KeyCorp’s claims in its capacity as a creditor may be
    recognized.


 





    Additional
    Information


 


    A comprehensive list of acronyms and abbreviations used
    throughout this report is included in Note 1 (“Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies”) in Item 8 of this
    report.




    
    2



Table of Contents





    The following financial data is included in this report in the
    MD&A and Item 8. Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data are incorporated herein by reference as
    indicated below:


 






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Description of Financial
    Data


 


    Page(s)



 






    Selected Financial Data



 


 


    39


 





    Consolidated Average Balance Sheets, Net Interest Income and
    Yields/Rates From Continuing Operations



 


 


    48-49


 





    Components of Net Interest Income Changes from Continuing
    Operations



 


 


    50


 





    Composition of Loans



 


 


    56


 





    Remaining Maturities and Sensitivity of Certain Loans to Changes
    in Interest Rates



 


 


    63


 





    Securities Available for Sale



 


 


    65


 





    Held-to-Maturity
    Securities



 


 


    65


 





    Maturity Distribution of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More



 


 


    66


 





    Allocation of the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses



 


 


    82


 





    Summary of Loan and Lease Loss Experience from Continuing
    Operations



 


 


    84


 





    Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans from
    Continuing Operations



 


 


    85


 





    Exit Loan Portfolio from Continuing Operations



 


 


    86


 





    Asset Quality



 


 


    110


 





    Short-Term Borrowings



 


 


    144


 








 


    Our executive offices are located at 127 Public Square,
    Cleveland, Ohio
    44114-1306,
    and our telephone number is
    (216) 689-3000.
    Our website is www.Key.com, and the investor relations section
    of our website may be reached through www.key.com/ir. We make
    available free of charge, on or through the investor relations
    links on our website, annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q
    ,and current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934, as amended, as well as proxy statements, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities
    and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Also posted on
    our website, and available in print upon request of any
    shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are the
    charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation and Organization
    Committee, Executive Committee, Nominating and Corporate
    Governance Committee, and Risk Management Committee; our
    Corporate Governance Guidelines; the Code of Ethics governing
    our directors, officers and employees; our Standards for
    Determining Independence of Directors; and our Limitation on
    Luxury Expenditures Policy. Within the time period required by
    the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our
    website any amendment to the Code of Ethics and any waiver
    applicable to any senior executive officer or director. We also
    make available a summary of filings made with the SEC of
    statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities
    filed by our directors and officers under Section 16 of the
    Exchange Act.


 


    Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the above-referenced
    corporate governance documents by writing to our Investor
    Relations Department at Investor Relations, KeyCorp, 127 Public
    Square, Mailcode OH-01-27-1113, Cleveland,
    Ohio 44114-1306;
    by calling
    (216) 689-3000;
    or by sending an
    e-mail to
    investor_relations@keybank.com.


 



    Acquisitions
    and Divestitures


 


    The information presented in Note 13 (“Acquisition,
    Divestiture, and Discontinued Operations”) is incorporated
    herein by reference.


 





    Competition


 


    The market for banking and related financial services is highly
    competitive. KeyCorp and its subsidiaries (“Key”)
    compete with other providers of financial services, such as bank
    holding companies, commercial banks, savings associations,
    credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies,
    mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms,
    investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local,
    regional and national institutions that offer financial
    services. Many of our competitors enjoy fewer regulatory
    constraints and some may have lower cost structures. The
    financial services industry is likely to become more competitive
    as further technology advances enable more companies to provide
    financial services. Technological advances may diminish the
    importance of depository institutions and other financial
    institutions. We compete by offering quality products and
    innovative services at competitive prices, and by maintaining
    our products and services offerings to keep pace with customer
    preferences and industry standards.


 


    In recent years, mergers and acquisitions have led to greater
    concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive
    pressure on Key’s core banking products and services.
    Consolidation continued during 2010 and led to redistribution of
    deposits and certain banking assets to larger financial
    institutions. Financial institutions with liquidity challenges
    sought mergers and the





    
    3



Table of Contents





    deposits and certain banking assets of the 157 banks that failed
    during 2010, representing $96.7 billion in total assets,
    were redistributed through the FDIC’s least-cost resolution
    process. These factors have intensified the concentration of the
    industry over the last few years and placed increased
    competitive pressure on Key’s core banking products and
    services.


 





    Supervision
    and Regulation


 


    The following discussion addresses elements of the regulatory
    framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial
    holding companies and their subsidiaries and provides certain
    specific information regarding material elements of the
    regulatory framework applicable to us. This regulatory framework
    is intended primarily to protect customers and depositors, the
    Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) of the FDIC and the
    banking system as a whole, rather than for the protection of
    security holders and creditors. We cannot necessarily predict
    changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory
    agency policies, yet such changes may have a material effect on
    our business, financial condition or results of operations.


 





    General


 


    As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to regulation,
    supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) under
    the BHCA. Pursuant to the BHCA, bank holding companies may not,
    in general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or
    control of more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially
    all of the assets, of any bank, without the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve. In addition, bank holding companies are
    generally prohibited from engaging in commercial or industrial
    activities.


 


    Our bank subsidiaries are also subject to extensive regulation,
    supervision and examination by applicable federal banking
    agencies. We operate one full-service, FDIC-insured national
    bank subsidiary, KeyBank, and one national bank subsidiary whose
    activities are limited to those of a fiduciary. Both of our
    national bank subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are subject to
    regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the
    Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”). Because
    domestic deposits in KeyBank are insured (up to applicable
    limits) and certain debt obligations of KeyBank and KeyCorp are
    temporarily guaranteed by the FDIC, the FDIC also has certain
    regulatory and supervisory authority over KeyBank and KeyCorp
    under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDIA”).


 


    We also have other financial services subsidiaries that are
    subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the
    Federal Reserve, as well as other applicable state and federal
    regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations. For
    example, our brokerage and asset management subsidiaries are
    subject to supervision and regulation by the SEC, the Financial
    Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators,
    and our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the
    insurance regulatory authorities of the states in which they
    operate. Our other nonbank subsidiaries are subject to laws and
    regulations of both the federal government and the various
    states in which they are authorized to do business.


 





    Capital
    Actions, Dividend Restrictions and the Supervisory Capital
    Assessment Program


 


    On November 14, 2008, KeyCorp sold $2.5 billion of
    Fixed-Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B
    (the “Series B Preferred Stock”) and a warrant to
    purchase 35,244,361 common shares, par value $1.00 (the
    “Warrant”), to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction
    with its CPP. The terms of the transaction with the
    U.S. Treasury include limitations on our ability to pay
    dividends and repurchase Common Shares. For three years after
    the issuance or until the U.S. Treasury no longer holds any
    Series B Preferred Stock, we will not be able to increase
    our dividends above the level paid in the third quarter of 2008,
    nor will we be permitted to repurchase any of its Common Shares
    or preferred stock without the approval of the
    U.S. Treasury, subject to the availability of certain
    limited exceptions (e.g., for purchases in connection with
    benefit plans).


 


    The Federal Reserve advised in its Supervisory Letter SR
    09-4
    (revised March 27, 2009) that recipients of CPP funds
    should communicate reasonably in advance with Federal Reserve
    staff concerning how any proposed dividends, capital redemptions
    and capital repurchases are consistent with the requirements of
    CPP, and related Federal Reserve supervisory policy.
    Furthermore, the Federal Reserve’s Revised Temporary
    Addendum to SR
    09-4 issued
    in November 2010 (the “Revised Addendum”), outlined
    its Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (“SCAP”)
    expectations, and clarified that SCAP bank holding companies
    (“BHCs”) planned capital actions, including plans to
    repay any outstanding U.S. government investment in common
    or preferred shares, requests to increase common stock
    dividends, reinstate or increase common stock repurchase
    programs, or make other capital distributions, would be
    evaluated as part of the supervisory assessment. As with all of
    the nineteen SCAP BHCs, should we seek to raise our Common
    Shares dividend following any repayment of the
    U.S. Treasury, we must consult with the Federal Reserve and
    demonstrate that such actions are consistent with existing
    supervisory guidance.


 


    Federal banking law and regulations also limit the amount of
    dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries
    without regulatory approval. Historically, dividends paid to us
    by KeyBank have been an important source of cash flow for
    KeyCorp to pay dividends on our equity securities and interest
    on its debt. The approval of the OCC is required for the payment
    of any dividend by a national bank if the total of all dividends
    declared by the board of directors of such bank in any calendar
    year would exceed the total of: (i) the bank’s net
    income for the current year plus (ii) the retained net
    income (as defined and





    
    4



Table of Contents





    interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any
    required transfer to surplus or a fund for the retirement of any
    preferred stock. In addition, a national bank can pay dividends
    only to the extent of its undivided profits. Our national bank
    subsidiaries are subject to these restrictions. During 2010,
    KeyBank did not pay any dividends to us; nonbank subsidiaries
    paid us a total of $25 million in dividends. During 2010,
    KeyBank could not pay dividends to us without prior regulatory
    approval because KeyBank’s net losses of
    $1.151 billion for 2009 and $1.161 billion for 2008
    exceeded KeyBank’s net income during 2010. We made capital
    infusions of $100 million and $1.2 billion for 2010
    and 2009, respectively, into KeyBank in the form of cash. At
    December 31, 2010, we held $3.3 billion in short-term
    investments, which can be used to pay dividends, service debt,
    and finance corporate operations.


 


    If, in the opinion of a federal banking agency, a depository
    institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
    engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the
    financial condition of the institution, could include the
    payment of dividends), the agency may require that such
    institution cease and desist from such practice. The OCC and the
    FDIC have indicated that paying dividends that would deplete a
    depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate
    level would be an unsafe and unsound practice. Moreover, under
    the FDIA, an insured depository institution may not pay any
    dividend: (i) if payment would cause it to become less than
    “adequately capitalized” or (ii) while it is in
    default in the payment of an assessment due to the FDIC. For
    additional information on capital categories see the
    “Regulatory Capital Standards and Related
    Matters —Prompt Corrective Action” section below.
    Also, the federal banking agencies have issued policy statements
    that provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their
    holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of
    their current operating earnings.


 



    SCAP


 


    The Federal Reserve’s Revised Addendum related to the
    conduct of SCAP for 2011 requested that each SCAP BHC submit its
    Comprehensive Capital Plan by January 7, 2011. The
    Comprehensive Capital Plan requirements include, among other
    things:


 




    
    



        ♦ 

        the incorporation of stress testing with a minimum planning
    horizon of 24 months;




 



        ♦ 

        a review of planned capital actions and pro forma estimates;




 



        ♦ 

        management’s plans for addressing proposed revisions to the
    regulatory capital framework agreed to by the Basel Committee;




 



        ♦ 

        a transition plan with pro forma estimates of regulatory capital
    ratios under the Basel III framework over the phase-in
    period; and




 



        ♦ 

        detail supporting the actions and assumptions to be taken over
    the entire period necessary for the BHC to meet the fully
    phased-in 7% Tier 1 common equity target.





 


    Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve is required
    beginning in 2012 to perform an annual supervisory assessment of
    certain covered BHCs and non-banks, and these same financial
    companies will be required to conduct semi-annual stress tests.
    Currently, we conduct stress testing on a quarterly basis. The
    Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve to issue
    regulations concerning its supervisory assessment and stress
    testing by January 2012, which must: (1) prescribe that
    three scenarios be used in the stress test—baseline,
    adverse, and severely adverse; (2) establish the
    methodologies for the conduct of the test; (3) establish
    the form and content of the report required to be submitted to
    the Federal Reserve and the financial institution’s primary
    regulator; and (4) require companies to publish a summary
    of the required stress test. These regulations have yet to be
    issued.


 





    Holding
    Company Structure


 


    Bank Transactions with Affiliates. Federal banking
    law and the regulations promulgated thereunder impose
    qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain
    transactions by a bank with its affiliates. Transactions covered
    by these provisions must be on arm’s length terms, and
    cannot exceed certain amounts, determined with reference to the
    bank’s regulatory capital. Moreover, if a loan or other
    extension of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an
    amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute. These
    provisions materially restrict the ability of KeyBank, as a
    bank, to fund its affiliates including KeyCorp, KeyBanc Capital
    Markets Inc., any of the Victory mutual funds, and
    KeyCorp’s nonbanking subsidiaries engaged in making
    merchant banking investments.


 


    Source of Strength Doctrine. Under the Dodd-Frank
    Act and long-standing Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding
    company is expected to serve as a source of financial and
    managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under
    appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each
    such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at a time
    when we may not have the resources to, or would choose not to,
    provide it. Certain loans by a bank holding company to a
    subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits
    in, and certain other indebtedness of, the subsidiary bank. In
    addition, federal law provides that in the event of a
    bankruptcy, any commitment by a bank holding company to a
    federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a
    subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and
    entitled to a priority of payment.




    
    5



Table of Contents








    Regulatory
    Capital Standards and Related Matters


 


    Risk-Based and Leverage Regulatory Capital. Federal
    law defines and prescribes minimum levels of regulatory capital
    for bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries. Adequacy
    of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by the federal
    banking agencies in the examination and supervision process, and
    in the evaluation of applications in connection with specific
    transactions and activities, including acquisitions, expansion
    of existing activities and commencement of new activities.


 


    Bank holding companies are subject to risk-based capital
    guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve. These guidelines
    establish minimum ratios of qualifying capital to risk-weighted
    assets. Qualifying capital includes Tier 1 capital and
    Tier 2 capital. Risk-weighted assets are calculated by
    assigning varying risk-weights to broad categories of assets and
    off-balance sheet exposures, based primarily on counterparty
    credit risk. The required minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital
    ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by
    risk-weighted assets, is currently 4.00%. The required minimum
    total risk-based capital ratio is currently 8.00%. It is
    calculated by dividing the sum of Tier 1 capital and
    Tier 2 capital (which cannot exceed the amount of
    Tier 1 capital), after certain deductions, by risk-weighted
    assets.


 


    Tier 1 capital includes common equity, qualifying perpetual
    preferred equity (including the Series A Preferred Stock
    and the Series B Preferred Stock), and minority interests
    in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries less certain
    intangible assets (including goodwill) and certain other assets.
    Tier 2 capital includes qualifying hybrid capital
    instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt
    securities, perpetual preferred equity not includable in
    Tier 1 capital, limited amounts of term subordinated debt,
    and medium-term preferred equity, certain unrealized holding
    gains on certain equity securities, and the allowance for loan
    and lease losses, limited as a percentage of net risk-weighted
    assets.


 


    Bank holding companies, whose securities and commodities trading
    activities exceed specified levels also are required to maintain
    capital for market risk. Market risk includes changes in the
    market value of trading account, foreign exchange, and commodity
    positions, whether resulting from broad market movements (such
    as changes in the general level of interest rates, equity
    prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or from
    position specific factors (such as idiosyncratic variation,
    event risk, and default risk).


 


    On January 11, 2011, the federal banking agencies published
    a proposal to revise their market risk capital rules. The
    proposal would modify the scope of such rules to better capture
    positions for which the market risk capital rules are
    appropriate, reduce pro-cyclicality in market risk capital
    requirements, enhance the rules’ sensitivity to risks that
    are not adequately captured under the current regulatory
    measurement methodologies, and increase transparency through
    enhanced disclosures. The proposal does not include the
    methodologies adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking
    Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) for calculating
    the specific risk capital requirements for debt and
    securitization positions because those methodologies relay on
    credit ratings, which is impermissible under the Dodd-Frank Act.
    Consequently, the proposal retains the current specific risk
    treatment for these positions until the agencies develop
    alternative standards of creditworthiness as required by the
    Dodd-Frank Act. At December 31, 2010, we had regulatory
    capital in excess of all minimum risk-based requirements,
    including all required adjustments for market risk.


 


    In addition to the risk-based standards, bank holding companies
    are subject to the Federal Reserve’s leverage ratio
    guidelines. These guidelines establish minimum ratios of
    Tier 1 risk-based capital to total assets. The minimum
    leverage ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by
    average total consolidated assets, is 3.00% for bank holding
    companies that either have the highest supervisory rating or
    have implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital
    measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies must
    maintain a minimum leverage ratio of at least 4.00%. At
    December 31, 2010, Key had regulatory capital in excess of
    all minimum leverage capital requirements, and satisfied the
    SCAP requirements set forth in supervisory guidance.


 


    Our national bank subsidiaries are also subject to risk-based
    and leverage capital requirements adopted by the OCC, which are
    substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal Reserve on
    bank holding companies. At December 31, 2010, each of our
    national bank subsidiaries had regulatory capital in excess of
    all minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements.


 


    In addition to establishing regulatory minimum ratios of capital
    to assets for all bank holding companies and their bank
    subsidiaries, the risk-based and leverage capital guidelines
    also identify various organization-specific factors and risks
    that are not taken into account in the computation of the
    capital ratios but that affect the overall supervisory
    evaluation of a banking organization’s regulatory capital
    adequacy and can result in the imposition of higher minimum
    regulatory capital ratio requirements upon the particular
    organization. Neither the Federal Reserve nor the OCC has
    advised us or any of our national bank subsidiaries of any
    specific minimum risk-based or leverage capital ratios
    applicable to us or such national bank subsidiary.


 


    Prompt Corrective Action. The federal banking
    agencies are required to take prompt corrective action in
    respect of depository institutions, that do not meet minimum
    capital requirements under federal law. Such prompt corrective
    action includes imposing progressively more restrictions on
    operations, management, and capital distributions as an
    institution’s capital decreases. FDIC-insured depository
    institutions are grouped into one of five prompt corrective
    action capital categories — well capitalized,
    adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly
    undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized —
    using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and
    Tier 1 leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital
    measures. An institution is considered well





    
    6



Table of Contents





    capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at
    least 10.00%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least
    6.00% and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 5.00%
    and is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital
    directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any
    capital measure. At December 31, 2010, KeyBank was well
    capitalized under the prompt corrective action standards.
    Federal law also requires that the bank regulatory agencies
    implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for
    institutions that fail to meet minimum capital requirements
    within the five capital categories, with progressively more
    restrictions on operations, management and capital distributions.


 


    Bank holding companies are not grouped into any of the five
    capital categories applicable to insured depository
    institutions. If such categories applied to bank holding
    companies, we believe that KeyCorp would satisfy the well
    capitalized criteria at December 31, 2010. An
    institution’s prompt corrective action capital category,
    however, may not constitute an accurate representation of the
    overall financial condition or prospects of the institution or
    parent bank holding company, and should be considered in
    conjunction with other available information regarding the
    financial condition and results of operations of the institution
    and its parent bank holding company.


 





    Basel
    Accords


 





    Overview


 


    The current minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by
    the U.S. federal banking agencies are based on a 1988
    international accord (“Basel I”) that was developed by
    the Basel Committee. In 2004, the Basel Committee published a
    new capital framework document (“Basel II”) governing
    the capital adequacy of large, internationally active banking
    organizations that generally rely on sophisticated risk
    management and measurement systems. Basel II is designed to
    create incentives for these organizations to improve their risk
    measurement and management processes and to better align minimum
    capital requirements with the risks underlying their activities.


 


    Basel II adopts a three-pillar framework for addressing
    capital adequacy — minimum capital requirements,
    supervisory review, and market discipline. In December 2007,
    U.S. federal banking regulators issued a final rule for
    Basel II implementation, requiring banks with over
    $250 billion in consolidated total assets or on-balance
    sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion (core banks) to adopt
    the advanced approach of Basel II while allowing other
    institutions to elect to opt-in. Currently, neither KeyCorp nor
    KeyBank is required to apply this final rule.


 





    Basel III
    Capital Framework


 


    In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final
    framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity
    regulation (“Basel III”). Basel III is a
    comprehensive set of reform measures designed to strengthen the
    regulation, supervision and risk management of the banking
    sector. These measures aim to improve the banking sector’s
    ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic
    stress, whatever the source, improve risk management and
    governance, and strengthen banks’ transparency and
    disclosures. Basel III requires higher and better-quality
    capital, better risk coverage, the introduction of an
    international leverage ratio as a backstop to the risk-based
    requirement, measures to promote the build up of capital that
    can be drawn down in periods of stress, and the introduction of
    two global liquidity standards.


 


    The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    introduces as a new capital measure, “common equity
    Tier 1,” and specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of
    common equity Tier 1 and “additional Tier 1
    capital” instruments meeting specified requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, will require banks
    to maintain: (a) a minimum ratio of common equity
    Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a
    2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which effectively
    results in a minimum ratio of common equity Tier 1 to
    risk-weighted assets of at least 7%); (b) a Tier 1
    capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6%, plus the
    capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0%
    Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in,
    effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of
    8.5% upon full implementation); (c) a minimum ratio of
    total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to
    risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital
    conservation buffer (effectively resulting in a minimum total
    capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation); and (d) a
    minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of
    Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain
    off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of
    the month-end ratios for the quarter);




 



     
        • 

    
    provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer”,
    generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that
    excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup
    of systemic risk, that would be a common equity Tier 1
    add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to
    2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total
    buffers of between 2.5% and 5%); and







    
    7



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses
    during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a
    ratio of common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets above
    the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the
    combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital
    buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on
    dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the
    amount of the short fall.





 


    The implementation of the Basel III final capital framework
    will commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banks with
    regulators adopting these standards in full would be required to
    meet the following minimum capital ratios – 3.5%
    common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets, 4.5%
    Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and 8.0% total
    capital to risk-weighted assets. The implementation of the
    capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016
    at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing
    by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it
    reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).


 


    The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new
    deductions from and adjustments to common equity Tier 1.
    These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage
    servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future
    taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated
    financial entities be deducted from common equity Tier 1 to
    the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of common
    equity Tier 1 or all such categories in the aggregate
    exceed 15% of common equity Tier 1. Implementation of the
    deductions and other adjustments to common equity Tier 1
    will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a
    five-year period (20% per year).


 





    Basel III
    Liquidity Framework


 


    The Basel III final liquidity framework requires banks to
    comply with two measures of liquidity risk exposure:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the “liquidity coverage ratio”, based on a
    30-day time
    horizon and calculated as the ratio of the “stock of
    high-quality liquid assets” divided by “total net cash
    outflows over the next 30 calendar days”, which must be at
    least 100%; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the “net stable funding ratio”, calculated as the
    ratio of the “available amount of stable funding”
    divided by the “required amount of stable funding”,
    which must be at least 100%.





 


    Each of the components of these ratios is defined, and the ratio
    calculated, in accordance with detailed requirements in the
    Basel III liquidity framework. Although the Basel Committee
    has not asked for additional comment on these ratios, both are
    subject to observation periods and transitional arrangements.
    The Basel III liquidity framework provides specifically
    that revisions to the liquidity coverage ratio will be made by
    mid-2013, with such ratios being introduced as a requirement on
    January 1, 2015, revisions to the net stable funding ratio
    will be made by mid-2016, and the net stable funding ratio will
    be introduced as a requirement on January 1, 2018.


 


    On January 13, 2011, the Basel Committee issued its final
    “minimum requirements to ensure loss absorbency at the
    point non-viability” document. It requires that all
    non-common Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments (e.g.,
    non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and subordinated debt)
    issued by an internationally active bank must have a provision
    that such instruments, at the option of the relevant regulator,
    are to either be written-off or converted into common equity
    upon the occurrence of certain trigger events. The final loss
    absorbency requirements specify that instruments issued on or
    after January 1, 2013, must meet the new criteria to be
    included in regulatory capital. Instruments issued prior to
    January 1, 2013, that do not meet the criteria, but that
    meet all of the entry criteria for additional Tier 1 or
    Tier 2 capital, will be considered as instruments that no
    longer qualify as additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital
    and will be phased out from January 1, 2013 in accordance
    with the Basel III framework. These provisions are similar
    to the concept set forth in the Dodd-Frank Act of phasing out of
    trust preferred securities, cumulative preferred securities and
    certain other securities as Tier 1 capital over a
    three-year period beginning January 1, 2013, as well as the
    application of similar capital standards to BHCs as are
    currently applied to depository institutions.


 


    The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet set forth a
    formal timeline for a notice of proposed rulemaking or final
    adoption of regulations responsive to Basel III. However, they
    have indicated informally that a notice of proposed rulemaking
    likely will be released in mid-2011, with final amendments to
    regulations becoming effective in mid-2012. Given our strong
    capital position, we expect to be able to satisfy the
    Basel III capital framework should U.S. capital
    regulations corresponding to it be finalized. While we also have
    a strong liquidity position, the Basel III liquidity
    framework could require us and other U.S. banks to initiate
    additional liquidity management initiatives, including adding
    additional liquid assets, issuing term debt, and modifying our
    product pricing for loans, commitments, and deposits.
    U.S. regulators have indicated that they may elect to make
    certain refinements to the Basel III liquidity framework.
    Accordingly, at this point it is premature to assess the impact
    of the Basel III liquidity framework.




    
    8



Table of Contents








    Federal
    Deposit Insurance Act


 





    Deposit
    Insurance Coverage Limits.


 


    Throughout 2010, the FDIC standard maximum depositor insurance
    coverage limit was $250,000. This limit, which was made
    permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act, applies per depositor, per
    insured depository institution, for each account ownership
    category. Also under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by H.R.
    6398, the FDIC is required to provide temporary unlimited
    coverage for qualifying noninterest-bearing transaction
    accounts, including Interest on Lawyers Trust Accounts.
    This temporary unlimited coverage is effective from
    December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012.


 





    Deposit
    Insurance Assessments


 


    Substantially all of KeyBank’s domestic deposits are
    insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC. The FDIC assesses
    an insured depository institution an amount for deposit
    insurance premiums equal to its deposit insurance assessment
    base times a risk-based assessment rate. Under the risk-based
    assessment system in effect during 2010, annualized deposit
    insurance premium assessments ranged from $.07 to $.775 for each
    $100 of assessable domestic deposits based on the
    institution’s risk category. This system will remain in
    effect for the first quarter of 2011. In 2009, the FDIC amended
    its assessment regulations to require insured depository
    institutions to prepay, on December 30, 2009, their
    estimated quarterly assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009,
    and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. KeyBank’s assessment
    prepayment was $539 million. For 2010, our FDIC insurance
    assessment was $124 million. As of December 31, 2010,
    we had $388 million of prepaid FDIC insurance assessment
    recorded on our balance sheet.


 


    The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to change the assessment
    base from domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets
    minus average tangible equity, and requires the DIF reserve
    ratio to increase to 1.35% by September 30, 2020, rather
    than 1.15% by December 31, 2016, as previously required. To
    implement these and other changes to the current deposit
    insurance assessment regime, the FDIC issued several proposed
    rules in 2010. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted their
    final rule on assessments. Under the final rule, which is
    effective on April 1, 2011, KeyBank’s annualized
    deposit insurance premium assessments would range from $.025 to
    $.45 for each $100 of its new assessment base, depending on its
    new scorecard performance incorporating KeyBank’s
    regulatory rating, ability to withstand asset and funding
    related stress, and relative magnitude of potential losses to
    the FDIC in the event of KeyBank’s failure. We estimate
    that our 2011 expense for deposit insurance assessments will be
    $60 to $90 million.


 





    FICO
    Assessments


 


    All FDIC-insured depository institutions have been required
    through assessments collected by the FDIC to service the annual
    interest on certain
    30-year
    noncallable bonds issued by the Financing Corporation
    (“FICO”) to fund losses incurred in the 1980s by the
    former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. For 2010,
    the annualized FICO assessment rate ranged from $.0104 to $.0106
    for each $100 of assessable domestic deposits.


 





    Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program


 


    In 2008, the FDIC implemented its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
    Program (the “TLGP”). The TLGP has two components: a
    “Debt Guarantee Program” temporarily guaranteeing the
    unpaid principal and interest due under a limited amount of
    qualifying newly-issued senior unsecured debt of participating
    eligible entities, and a “Transaction Account
    Guarantee” providing a temporary guarantee of depositor
    funds in qualifying noninterest-bearing transaction accounts
    maintained at participating FDIC-insured depository
    institutions. For FDIC-guaranteed debt issued before
    April 1, 2009, the Debt Guarantee expires on the earlier of
    the maturity of the debt or June 30, 2012. For
    FDIC-guaranteed debt issued on or after April 1, 2009, the
    Debt Guarantee expires on the earlier of the maturity of the
    debt or December 31, 2012. The Transaction Account
    Guarantee expired on December 31, 2010. As of
    December 31, 2010, KeyCorp had $687.5 million of
    guaranteed debt outstanding under the TLGP and KeyBank had
    $1.0 billion of guaranteed debt outstanding under the TLGP.
    KeyBank participated in the Transaction Account Guarantee
    component of the TLGP during the first half of 2010.


 





    Liability
    of Commonly Controlled Institutions


 


    Under the FDIA, an insured depository institution generally is
    liable to the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably
    anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the
    default of any commonly controlled insured institution, or for
    any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled
    institution that is in danger of default. The term
    “default” is defined generally to mean the appointment
    of a conservator or receiver and the term “in danger of
    default” is defined generally as the existence of certain
    conditions indicating that a “default” is likely to
    occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.




    
    9



Table of Contents








    Conservatorship
    and Receivership of Institutions


 


    If any insured depository institution becomes insolvent and the
    FDIC is appointed its conservator or receiver, the FDIC may,
    under federal law, disaffirm or repudiate any contract to which
    such institution is a party if the FDIC determines that
    performance of the contract would be burdensome, and that
    disaffirmance or repudiation of the contract would promote the
    orderly administration of the institution’s affairs. Such
    disaffirmance or repudiation would result in a claim by the
    other party to the contract against the receivership or
    conservatorship. The amount paid upon such claim would depend
    upon, among other factors, the amount of receivership assets
    available for the payment of such claim and the priority of the
    claim relative to the priority of others. In addition, the FDIC
    as conservator or receiver may enforce most contracts entered
    into by the institution notwithstanding any provision regarding
    termination, default, acceleration, or exercise of rights upon
    or solely by reason of insolvency of the institution,
    appointment of a conservator or receiver for the institution, or
    exercise of rights or powers by a conservator or receiver for
    the institution. The FDIC as conservator or receiver also may
    transfer any asset or liability of the institution without
    obtaining any approval or consent of the institution’s
    shareholders or creditors.


 





    Depositor
    Preference


 


    The FDIA provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other
    resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of
    its depositors (including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of
    insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative
    expenses of the FDIC as receiver would be afforded a priority
    over other general unsecured claims against such an institution.
    If an insured depository institution fails, insured and
    uninsured depositors along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of
    unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including a parent holding
    company and subordinated creditors, in order of priority of
    payment.


 





    Regulatory
    Reform Developments


 


    On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act
    into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to address perceived
    deficiencies and gaps in the regulatory framework for financial
    services in the United States, reduce the risks of bank failures
    and better equip the nation’s regulators to guard against
    or mitigate any future financial crises, and manage systemic
    risk through increased supervision of systemically important
    financial companies (including nonbank financial companies). The
    Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes
    across the financial landscape affecting financial companies,
    including banks and bank holding companies such as Key. For a
    review of the various reform measures being taken as a result of
    the Dodd-Frank Act, we refer you to the risk factor on the
    Dodd-Frank Act on page 12 in Item 1A: Risk Factors.


 


    The Dodd-Frank Act defers many of the details of its mandated
    reforms to future rulemakings by a variety of federal regulatory
    agencies. For further detail on the Dodd-Frank Act, see Pub. L.
    111-203,
    H.R. 4173 (for the full text of the Act).


 





    Entry
    Into Certain Covenants


 


    We entered into two transactions during 2006 and one transaction
    (with an overallotment option) in 2008, each of which involved
    the issuance of trust preferred securities
    (“Trust Preferred Securities”) by Delaware
    statutory trusts formed by us (the “Trusts”), as
    further described below. Simultaneously with the closing of each
    of those transactions, we entered into a so-called replacement
    capital covenant (each, a “Replacement Capital
    Covenant” and collectively, the “Replacement Capital
    Covenants”) for the benefit of persons that buy or hold
    specified series of long-term indebtedness of KeyCorp or its
    then largest depository institution, KeyBank (the “Covered
    Debt”). Each of the Replacement Capital Covenants provide
    that neither KeyCorp nor any of its subsidiaries (including any
    of the Trusts) will redeem or purchase all or any part of the
    Trust Preferred Securities or certain junior subordinated
    debentures issued by KeyCorp and held by the Trust (the
    “Junior Subordinated Debentures”), as applicable, on
    or before the date specified in the applicable Replacement
    Capital Covenant, with certain limited exceptions, except to the
    extent that, during the 180 days prior to the date of that
    redemption or purchase, we have received proceeds from the sale
    of qualifying securities that (i) have equity-like
    characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than,
    the applicable characteristics of the Trust Preferred
    Securities or the Junior Subordinated Debentures, as applicable,
    at the time of redemption or purchase, and (ii) we have
    obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve, if such
    approval is then required by the Federal Reserve. We will
    provide a copy of the Replacement Capital Covenants to holders
    of Covered Debt upon request made in writing to KeyCorp,
    Investor Relations, 127 Public Square, Mail Code
    OH-01-27-1113, Cleveland, OH
    44114-1306.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    The following table identifies the (i) closing date for
    each transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of
    Trust Preferred Securities issued, (iv) Junior
    Subordinated Debentures, and (v) applicable Covered Debt as
    of the date this annual report was filed with the SEC.


 






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


    Trust Preferred


 


    Junior Subordinated


 


 




    Closing Date


 


    Issuer


 


    Securities


 


    Debentures


 


    Covered Debt



 





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    6/20/2006



 


    KeyCorp
    Capital VIII and
    KeyCorp


 


    $250,000,000 principal 
    amount of 7% Enhanced 
    Trust Preferred Securities


 


    KeyCorp’s 7% junior subordinated debentures
    due June 15, 2066


 


    KeyCorp’s 5.70% junior
    subordinated debentures due 2035, underlying the 5.70% trust
    preferred securities of KeyCorp Capital VII (CUSIP No.
    49327LAA4011)




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    11/21/2006



 


    KeyCorp
    Capital IX and
    KeyCorp


 


    $500,000,000 principal amount of 6.750% 
    Enhanced Trust Preferred 
    Securities


 


    KeyCorp’s 6.750% junior subordinated debentures
    due December 15, 2066


 


    KeyCorp’s 5.70% junior
    subordinated debentures due 2035, underlying the 5.70% trust
    preferred securities of KeyCorp Capital VII (CUSIP No.
    49327LAA4011)




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    2/27/2008



 


    KeyCorp
    Capital X and
    KeyCorp


 


    $700,000,000 principal amount of 8.000% 
    Enhanced Trust Preferred 
    Securities


 


    KeyCorp’s 8.000% junior subordinated debentures
    due March 15, 2068


 


    KeyCorp’s 5.70% junior
    subordinated debentures due 2035, underlying the 5.70% trust
    preferred securities of KeyCorp Capital VII (CUSIP No.
    49327LAA4011)




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    3/3/2008



 


    KeyCorp
    Capital X and
    KeyCorp


 


    $40,000,000 principal amount of 8.000% 
    Enhanced Trust Preferred 
    Securities


 


    KeyCorp’s 8.000% junior subordinated debentures due March
    15, 2068


 


    KeyCorp’s 5.70% junior
    subordinated debentures due 2035 underlying the 5.70% trust
    preferred securities of KeyCorp Capital VII (CUSIP No.
    49327LAA4011)








 







    
    



    
    ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    An investment in our Common Shares or other securities is
    subject to risks inherent to our business, ownership of our
    securities and our industry. Described below are certain risks
    and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could have a material
    and adverse effect on us. Before making an investment decision,
    you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties
    described below together with all of the other information
    included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks
    and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.
    Although we have significant risk management policies,
    procedures and practices aimed at mitigating these risks,
    uncertainties may nevertheless impair our business operations.
    This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.


 


    IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS,
    FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND/OR ACCESS TO
    LIQUIDITY AND/OR CREDIT COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY
    AFFECTED (“MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON US”). IF THIS
    WERE TO HAPPEN, THE VALUE OF OUR SECURITIES — COMMON
    SHARES, SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES B PREFERRED
    STOCK, TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES AND DEBT
    SECURITIES — COULD DECLINE, PERHAPS SIGNIFICANTLY, AND
    YOU COULD LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT.


 





    Risks
    Related To Our Business


 





    Our
    credit ratings affect our liquidity position.


 


    On November 1, 2010, Moody’s announced a ratings
    downgrade for ten large U.S. regional banks, including
    KeyBank, previously identified as benefiting from systemic
    support. Ratings for KeyBank’s short-term borrowings,
    senior long-term debt and subordinated debt were downgraded one
    notch—from
    P-1 to
    P-2, A2 to
    A3, and A3 to Baa1, respectively. In conjunction with the
    ratings changes, Moody’s updated their ratings outlook on
    these ratings from “Negative” to “Stable.”
    The new ratings have breached minimum thresholds established by
    Moody’s in connection with the securitizations that we
    service, and impact the ability of KeyBank to hold certain
    escrow deposit balances related to commercial mortgage
    securitizations serviced by us and rated by Moody’s. These
    escrow deposit balances range from $1.50 to $1.85 billion.
    Since the downgrade, KeyBank has been in discussions with
    Moody’s regarding an alternative investment vehicle for
    these funds that would be acceptable to Moody’s and
    maintain the funds at KeyBank. Subsequent to Moody’s
    announcement that was issued on January 19, 2011,
    Moody’s indicated to KeyBank that these escrow deposit
    balances associated with our mortgage servicing operations will
    need to be moved to another financial institution which meets
    the minimum ratings threshold within the first quarter of 2011.
    As a result of this decision by Moody’s, KeyBank has
    determined that moving these escrow deposit balances results in
    an immaterial impairment of these mortgage servicing assets.
    KeyBank expects to have ample liquidity reserves to offset the
    loss of these deposits and expects to remain in a strong
    liquidity position. Nevertheless, the ratings downgrade could
    decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to
    lend to us.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    Our rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of KeyCorp
    and KeyBank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other
    securities are based on a number of factors, including our
    financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other
    factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such
    as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the
    economy. In light of the difficulties in the financial services
    industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no
    assurance that we will maintain our current ratings.


 


    If the securities of KeyCorp
    and/or
    KeyBank suffer additional ratings downgrades, such downgrades
    could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could
    significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional
    collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of
    investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, thereby
    reducing our ability to generate income. Further downgrades of
    the credit ratings of securities, particularly if they are below
    investment-grade, could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    The
    Federal Reserve has acknowledged the possibility of further
    recession and deflation. Should this occur, the financial
    services industry and our business could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Despite the conclusion of the recession, the recovery of the
    U.S. economy continues to progress slowly; consumer
    confidence remains low, unemployment remains high at 9.4% for
    December 2010, and the housing market remains an important
    downside risk, with prices expected to fall through much of this
    year. Given the concerns about the U.S. economy,
    U.S. employers continue to approach hiring with caution,
    and as a result unemployment may rise. Furthermore, the Federal
    Open Market Committee communicated in its December
    2010 statement that measures of underlying inflation have
    continued to trend downward. Monetary and fiscal policy
    measures, including the recent legislation formalizing the tax
    compromise between U.S. Congress and Senate members (the
    “Tax Compromise”), aimed at lowering the risk of a
    double-dip recession may be insufficient to strengthen the
    recovery, return unemployment to lower levels, and restore
    stability to the financial markets. Furthermore, Federal Reserve
    Chairman Bernanke and various governments in Europe have
    acknowledged the need to commence a shift from fiscal stimulus
    efforts to fiscal constraint to reduce government deficits. The
    recent Tax Compromise indicates that the shift in
    U.S. fiscal policy will be postponed, but only temporarily.
    A coordinated shift from fiscal stimulus to fiscal reductions
    could hinder the return of a robust global economy and cause
    instability in the financial markets. Various governments in
    Europe have announced budget reductions
    and/or
    austerity measures as a means to limit fiscal budget deficits as
    a result of the economic crisis. Additionally, many state and
    local governments in the U.S. have also implemented budget
    reductions. These factors could weaken the U.S. economic
    recovery. A weak U.S. economic recovery could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us. Should economic indicators not
    improve, the U.S. could face a further recession and
    deflation. Such economic conditions could affect us in a variety
    of substantial and unpredictable ways as well as affect our
    borrowers’ ability to meet their repayment obligations.
    These factors could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    The
    failure of the European Union to stabilize its weaker member
    economies, such as Greece, Portugal, Spain, Hungary, Ireland,
    and Italy, could have international implications affecting the
    stability of global financial markets and hindering the U.S.
    economic recovery.


 


    On the eve of May 10, 2010, Greece was facing imminent
    default on its obligations. On May 10, 2010, finance
    ministers from the European Union announced a deal to provide
    $560 billion in new loans and $76 billion under an
    existing lending program to countries facing instability. The
    International Monetary Fund joined forces and announced that it
    was prepared to give $321 billion separately. The European
    Central Bank also announced that it would buy government and
    corporate debt, and the world’s leading central banks,
    including the Federal Reserve, Bank of Canada, Bank of England,
    Bank of Japan, and Swiss National Bank, announced a joint
    intervention to make more dollars available for interbank
    lending. These and other monetary and fiscal policy efforts
    appear to have stabilized the European Union’s weaker
    member economies. Nevertheless, should these monetary and fiscal
    policy measures be insufficient to restore stability to the
    financial markets, the recovery of the U.S. economy could
    be hindered or reversed, which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 





    The
    Dodd-Frank Act subjects us to a variety of new and more
    stringent legal and regulatory requirements. Because the
    Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent regulatory requirements on
    the largest financial institutions, Key could be competitively
    disadvantaged.


 


    On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act
    into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to address perceived
    deficiencies and gaps in the regulatory framework for financial
    services in the United States, reduce the risks of bank failures
    and better equip the nation’s regulators to guard against
    or mitigate any future financial crises, and manage systemic
    risk through increased supervision of systemically important
    financial companies (including nonbank financial companies).
    Although many provisions remain subject to further rulemaking,
    the Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes
    across the





    
    12



Table of Contents





    financial landscape affecting financial companies, including
    bank and bank-holding companies such as Key, by, among other
    things:


 




    
    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Requiring regulation and oversight of large, systemically
    important financial institutions by establishing an interagency
    council, the Financial Stability Oversight Council
    (“FSOC”), to identify and manage systemic risk in the
    financial system, and requiring the implementation of heightened
    prudential standards and regulation by the Federal Reserve for
    systemically important financial institutions (including nonbank
    financial companies);

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Applying prudential standards to large interconnected financial
    companies, including BHCs like us that have at least
    $50 billion in total consolidated assets and certain
    nonbanks regulated by the Federal Reserve. Such heightened
    prudential standards must include risk-based capital
    requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, overall
    risk management requirements, resolution plan and credit
    exposure reporting, and concentration limits. They also may
    include a contingent capital requirement, enhanced public
    disclosures, short-term debt limits, and such other standards as
    the Federal Reserve, on its own or pursuant to FSOC
    recommendation, determines are appropriate;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Requiring that large interconnected financial companies with at
    least $50 billion in total assets prepare and maintain a
    rapid and orderly resolution plan, which must be approved by the
    Federal Reserve and the FDIC;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Creating a new federal receivership process pursuant to which
    the FDIC will serve as receiver for large, interconnected
    financial companies, including bank holding companies, whose
    failure poses a significant risk to the financial stability of
    the United States. All costs of an orderly liquidation are borne
    first by shareholders and unsecured creditors, and, if
    necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial
    companies;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Applying the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements
    that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank
    holding companies, savings and loan holding companies and
    systemically important nonbank financial companies, which, among
    other things, will gradually exclude all trust preferred and
    cumulative preferred securities from Tier 1 capital, and may
    impose new capital and liquidity requirements consistent with
    the Basel III capital and liquidity frameworks;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Limiting the Federal Reserve’s emergency authority to lend
    to nondepository institutions to facilities with broad-based
    eligibility, and authorizing the FDIC to establish an emergency
    financial stabilization fund for solvent depository institutions
    and their holding companies, subject to the approval of
    Congress, the U.S. Treasury Secretary and the Federal
    Reserve;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Centralizing responsibility for consumer financial protection by
    creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
    (the “CFPB”), with responsibility for implementing,
    examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer
    financial laws, a number of which will be strengthened by
    provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated
    thereunder;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Imposing new regulatory requirements and restrictions on
    federally insured depository institutions, their holding
    companies and other affiliates, as well as other systemically
    important nonbank financial companies, including the so-called
    “Volcker Rule” ban on proprietary trading and
    sponsorship of, and investment in hedge funds and private equity
    funds;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Creating regimes for regulation of
    over-the-counter
    derivatives and non-admitted property and casualty insurers and
    reinsurers. The regulation of
    over-the-counter
    derivatives shall include the so-called “Lincoln push-out
    provision” that effectively prohibits insured depository
    institutions from conducting certain derivatives businesses in
    the institution;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Requiring any interchange transaction fee charged for a debit
    transaction to be “reasonable” and proportional to the
    cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction, directing the
    Federal Reserve to prescribe new regulations establishing such
    fee standards, eliminating exclusivity arrangements between
    issuers and networks for debit card transactions, and imposing
    limits for restrictions on merchant discounting for the use of
    certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds
    as a condition for acceptance of credit cards;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Implementing regulation of hedge fund and private equity
    advisers by requiring that advisers that manage
    $150 million or more in assets to register with the SEC;

     






    
    13



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Requiring issuers of asset-backed securities to retain some of
    the risk associated with the offered securities;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Providing for the implementation of corporate governance
    provisions for all public companies concerning proxy access and
    executive compensation;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Increasing the FDIC’s deposit insurance limits permanently
    to $250,000 for non-transaction accounts, providing for
    unlimited federal deposit insurance on non-interest bearing
    demand transaction accounts at all insured depository
    institutions effective December 31, 2010 through
    December 31, 2012, and changing the assessment base from
    insured deposits to average consolidated assets less average
    tangible equity, eliminating the ceiling on the size of the DIF,
    increasing the reserve ratio for the DIF, and imposing
    assessments upon bank holding companies to support the cost of
    resolution and regulation of such entities required by the
    Dodd-Frank Act;

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Reforming regulation of credit rating agencies, and requiring
    federal agencies to remove references to credit ratings as a
    measure of creditworthiness for, among other things, purposes of
    capital, analysis of credits, and liquidity; and

     



 



     
        • 

    
    Repealing the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on
    demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to
    pay interest on business transaction accounts.

     




 


    The Dodd-Frank Act defers many of the details of its mandated
    reforms to future rulemakings by a variety of federal regulatory
    agencies. While we cannot predict the effect of these various
    rulemakings which have yet to be issued, we do anticipate a
    variety of new and more stringent legal and regulatory
    requirements. Regulatory reform will likely place additional
    costs on larger financial institutions, may impede growth
    opportunities, and may place larger financial institutions at a
    competitive disadvantage in the market place. Additionally,
    reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that we deal
    with in the course of our business, such as rating agencies,
    insurance companies, and investors. Heightened regulatory
    practices, requirements or expectations resulting from the
    Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder could affect
    us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and, in turn, could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    The
    Dodd-Frank Act provides for the phase-out beginning
    January 1, 2013, of trust preferred securities and
    cumulative preferred securities as eligible Tier 1
    risk-based capital for purposes of the regulatory capital
    guidelines for bank holding companies.


 


    Currently, our trust preferred and enhanced trust preferred
    securities represent 15% of our Tier 1 risk-based capital
    or $1.8 billion of our $11.8 billion of Tier 1
    risk-based capital. By comparison, the U.S. Treasury’s
    CPP investment, non-cumulative perpetual preferred securities,
    and our common equity represent 21%, 2% and 62%, respectively,
    of our Tier 1 risk-based capital, as of December 31,
    2010. The anticipated phase-out (as eligible Tier 1
    risk-based capital) of our trust preferred securities and
    enhanced trust preferred securities will eventually result in us
    having less of a capital buffer above the current
    well-capitalized regulatory standard of 6% of Tier 1
    risk-based capital. Accordingly, we may eventually determine it
    is advisable or our regulators could require us, based upon new
    capital or liquidity regulations or otherwise, to raise
    additional Tier 1 risk-based capital through the issuance
    of additional preferred stock or common equity. Should such
    issuances occur, they would likely result in dilution to our
    shareholders. Currently, we expect to have sufficient access to
    the capital markets to be able to raise any necessary
    replacement capital. Nevertheless, should market conditions
    deteriorate, our ability to raise capital may be diminished
    significantly, which could, in turn, have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us. Approximately $140 billion of trust preferred
    securities issued by U.S. financial institutions will be
    affected by the Dodd-Frank Act phase-out of trust preferred
    securities as Tier 1 eligible. Many other institutions are
    faced with this same issue. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act and
    related or other rulemaking may result in new regulatory capital
    standards for institutions to be recognized as well-capitalized.
    These factors could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    An
    offering of a significant amount of additional Common Shares or
    equity convertible into our Common Shares could cause us to
    issue a significant amount of Common Shares to a private
    investor or group of private investors and thus have a
    significant investor with voting rights.


 


    Any issuance or issuances totaling a significant amount of our
    Common Shares or equity convertible into our Common Shares could
    cause us to issue a significant amount of Common Shares to a
    private investor or group of investors and thus have a
    significant investor with voting rights. Having a significant
    shareholder may make some future transactions more difficult or
    perhaps impossible to complete without the support of such
    shareholder. The interests of the significant shareholder may
    not coincide with our interests or the interests of other
    shareholders. There can be no assurance that any significant
    shareholder will exercise its influence in our best interests as
    opposed to its best interests as a significant shareholder.
    Accordingly, a significant shareholder may make it difficult to
    approve certain transactions even if they are supported by the
    other shareholders. These factors could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.




    
    14



Table of Contents








    We are
    subject to market risks, including in the commercial real estate
    sector. Should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate
    market further deteriorate, our financial condition and results
    of operations could be adversely affected.


 


    The fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector remain
    weak, under continuing pressure by reduced asset values, high
    vacancies and reduced rents. Commercial real estate values
    peaked in the fall of 2007, after gaining approximately 30%
    since 2005 and 90% since 2001. According to Moody’s Real
    Estate Analytics, LLC Commercial Property Index (December 2010),
    commercial real estate values were down 42% from their peak.
    Many of our commercial real estate loans were originated between
    2005 and 2007. A portion of our commercial real estate loans are
    construction loans. These properties are typically not fully
    leased at the origination of the loan, but the borrower may be
    reliant upon additional leasing through the life of the loan to
    provide cash flow to support debt service payments. Weak
    economic conditions typically slow the execution of new leases;
    such conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As we
    experienced during 2010, vacancy rates for retail, office and
    industrial space are expected to remain elevated and could
    increase in 2011. Increased vacancies could result in rents
    falling further over the next several quarters. The combination
    of these factors could result in further weakening in the
    fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market.
    Should these fundamentals continue to deteriorate as a result of
    further decline in asset values and the instability of rental
    income, it could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Declining
    asset prices could adversely affect us.


 


    During the recent recession in December 2007 to June 2009, the
    volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets
    have experienced reached extreme levels. The severe market
    dislocations in 2008 led to the failure of several substantial
    financial institutions, causing widespread liquidation of assets
    and further constraining credit markets. These asset sales,
    along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including
    some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations
    across a wide variety of traded asset classes. Asset price
    deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of
    the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and
    reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable.
    For example, a further recession would likely reverse recent
    positive trends in asset prices. These factors could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    We are
    subject to credit risk, in the form of changes in interest rates
    and/or changes in the economic conditions in the markets where
    we operate, which changes could adversely affect us.


 


    There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading
    activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact
    of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic
    conditions in the markets where we operate. Increases in
    interest rates
    and/or
    further weakening of economic conditions caused by a double-dip
    recession or otherwise could adversely impact the ability of
    borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the
    collateral securing these loans.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, approximately 69% of our loan
    portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural
    loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial
    mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. These
    types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate
    loans and consumer loans. We closely monitor and manage risk
    concentrations and utilize various portfolio management
    practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible
    to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of
    commercial loans with relatively large balances.


 


    We also do business with environmentally sensitive industries
    and in connection with the development of Brownfield sites that
    provide appropriate business opportunities. We monitor and
    evaluate our borrowers for compliance with environmental-related
    covenants, which include covenants requiring compliance with
    applicable law. We take steps to mitigate risks; however, should
    political or other changes make it difficult for certain of our
    customers to maintain compliance with applicable covenants, our
    credit quality could be adversely affected. The deterioration of
    one or more of any of our loans could cause a significant
    increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss
    of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for
    loan and lease losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, any
    of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 


    We also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect
    our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws
    and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement
    action that could result in the assessment against us of civil
    money or other penalties, which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 





    There can
    be no assurance that the legislation and other initiatives
    undertaken by the United States government to restore liquidity
    and stability to the U.S. financial system and reform financial
    regulation in the U.S. will help stabilize the U.S. financial
    system.


 


    Since 2008, the federal government has intervened in an
    unprecedented manner in response to the recent financial crisis
    that affected the banking system and financial markets. The EESA
    was enacted and signed into law by President Bush in October
    2008 in response to the ongoing financial crisis affecting the
    banking system and financial markets and going concern threats
    to investment banks and other financial institutions. Under the
    authority provided by EESA, the U.S. Treasury established
    the CPP, and the core provisions of the Financial Stability Plan
    aimed at stabilizing and providing liquidity to the financial
    markets. There





    
    15



Table of Contents





    can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the EESA,
    the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
    (“Recovery Bill”), the Dodd-Frank Act, the Tax
    Compromise, or other programs and initiatives undertaken by the
    U.S. government will have on the financial markets. In
    addition, the Federal Reserve has implemented a variety of
    monetary policy measures to stabilize the economy. Nevertheless,
    the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability
    experienced in late 2008 and through the third quarter of
    2009 may return or persist. During the liquidity crisis
    from late 2007 to 2009, regional financial institutions faced
    difficulties issuing debt in the fixed income debt markets;
    these conditions could return and pose continued difficulties
    for the issuance of both medium term note and long-term
    subordinated note issuances. The failure of the
    U.S. government programs to sufficiently contribute to
    financial market stability and put the U.S. economy on a
    stable path for an economic recovery could result in a worsening
    of current financial market conditions, which could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us. In the event that any of the
    various forms of turmoil experienced in the financial markets
    return or become exacerbated, there may be a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us from (1) continued or accelerated disruption
    and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital
    and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions
    generally and our transaction counterparties specifically,
    (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action
    to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial
    system, or (4) recessionary conditions that return, are
    deeper, or last longer than currently anticipated.


 





    Issuing a
    significant amount of common equity to a private investor may
    result in a change in control of KeyCorp under regulatory
    standards and contractual terms.


 


    Should we obtain a significant amount of additional capital from
    any individual private investor, a change of control could occur
    under applicable regulatory standards and contractual terms.
    Such change of control may trigger notice, approval
    and/or other
    regulatory requirements in many states and jurisdictions in
    which we operate. We are a party to various contracts and other
    agreements that may require us to obtain consents from our
    respective contract counterparties in the event of a change in
    control. The failure to obtain any required regulatory consents
    or approvals or contractual consents due to a change in control
    may have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Should we
    decide to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s Series B
    Preferred Stock, future issuance(s) of Common Shares may be
    necessary, which, if necessary, may result in significant
    dilution to holders of KeyCorp Common Shares.


 


    In conjunction with any repurchase of the Series B
    Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury, we may elect
    or be required by our regulators to increase the amount of our
    Tier 1 common equity through the sale of additional Common
    Shares. In addition, in connection with the
    U.S. Treasury’s purchase of the Series B
    Preferred Stock, pursuant to a Letter Agreement dated
    November 14, 2008, and the Securities Purchase
    Agreement — Standard Terms, the U.S. Treasury
    received a Warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our Common Shares
    at an initial per share exercise price of $10.64, subject to
    adjustment, which expires ten years from the issuance date, and
    we have agreed to provide the U.S. Treasury with
    registration rights covering the Warrant and the underlying
    Common Shares. The terms of the Warrant provide for a procedure,
    upon repurchase of the Series B Preferred Stock, to
    determine the value of the Warrant, and purchase the Warrant,
    within approximately 40 days of the repurchase of the
    Series B Preferred Stock. However, even if we were to
    redeem the Series B Preferred Stock, there is no assurance
    that this Warrant will be fully retired and, therefore, that it
    will not be exercised, prior to its expiration date. The
    issuance of additional Common Shares as a result of the exercise
    of the Warrant the U.S. Treasury holds would likely dilute
    the ownership interest of KeyCorp’s existing common
    shareholders.


 


    The terms of the Warrant provide that, if we issue Common Shares
    or securities convertible or exercisable into or exchangeable
    for Common Shares at a price that is less than 90% of the market
    price of such shares on the last trading day preceding the date
    of the agreement to sell such shares, the number and the per
    share price of Common Shares to be purchased pursuant to the
    Warrant will be adjusted pursuant to its terms. We may also
    choose to issue securities convertible into or exercisable for
    our Common Shares and such securities may themselves contain
    anti-dilution provisions. Such anti-dilution adjustment
    provisions may have a further dilutive effect on other holders
    of our Common Shares.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will not in the future
    determine that it is advisable, or that we will not encounter
    circumstances where we determine that it is necessary, to issue
    additional Common Shares, securities convertible into or
    exchangeable for Common Shares or common-equivalent securities
    to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to
    build additional capital. Nevertheless, there can be no
    assurance that our regulators, including the U.S. Treasury
    and the Federal Reserve, will not conduct additional
    “stress test” capital assessments outside of typical
    examination cycles, such as the SCAP,
    and/or
    require us to generate additional capital, including Tier 1
    common equity, in the future in the event of further negative
    economic circumstances, in order for us to redeem our
    Series B Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury
    under the CPP or otherwise. The market price of our Common
    Shares could decline as a result of such exchange offerings, as
    well as other sales of a large block of our Common Shares or
    similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception
    that such sales could occur. These factors could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.




    
    16



Table of Contents








    We may
    not be permitted to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s CPP
    investment if and when we request approval to do so.


 


    While it is our plan to repurchase the Series B Preferred
    Stock as soon as practicable, in order to repurchase such
    securities, in whole or in part, we must establish to our
    regulators’ satisfaction that we have met all of the
    conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the
    Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to repurchase the
    U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment in our Series B
    Preferred Stock subject to conditions that we find acceptable,
    or at all. In addition to limiting our ability to return capital
    to our shareholders, the U.S. Treasury’s investment
    could limit our ability to retain key executives and other key
    employees, and limit our ability to develop business
    opportunities. These factors could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 





    We are
    subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our
    earnings on loans and other interest-earning assets.


 


    Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net
    interest income. Net interest income is the difference between
    interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans
    and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing
    liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates
    are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our
    control, including general economic conditions, the competitive
    environment within our markets, consumer preferences for
    specific loan and deposit products and policies of various
    governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the
    Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes
    in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of
    interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of
    interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes
    could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain
    deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and
    liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other
    borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we
    receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income,
    and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings
    could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on
    loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest
    we pay on deposits and other borrowings. We use simulation
    analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate exposure based
    on assumptions and judgments related to balance sheet changes,
    customer behavior, new products, new business volume, product
    pricing, competitor behavior, the behavior of market interest
    rates and anticipated hedging activities. Simulation analysis
    involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of
    future risks and trends. Accordingly, there can be no assurance
    that actual results will not differ from those derived in
    simulation analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency
    of interest rate changes, actual hedging strategies employed,
    changes in balance sheet composition, and the possible effects
    of unanticipated or unknown events.


 


    Although we believe that we have implemented effective asset and
    liability management strategies, including simulation analysis
    and the use of interest rate derivatives as hedging instruments,
    to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on
    our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in market interest rates could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    We are
    subject to changes in the financial markets which could
    adversely affect us.


 


    Traditionally, market factors such as changes in foreign
    exchange rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the
    financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and other
    unrelated financial companies have the potential to affect
    current market values of financial instruments. During 2008,
    market events demonstrated this to an extreme. Between July 2007
    and October 2009, conditions in the fixed income markets,
    specifically the wider credit spreads over benchmark
    U.S. Treasury securities for many fixed income securities,
    caused significant volatility in the market values of loans,
    securities, and certain other financial instruments that are
    held in our trading or
    held-for-sale
    portfolios. Opportunities to minimize the adverse affects of
    market changes are not always available. Substantial changes in
    the financial markets could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    The
    soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect
    us.


 


    Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be
    adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of
    other financial institutions. Financial services to institutions
    are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty
    or other relationships. We have exposure to many different
    industries and counterparties, and routinely execute
    transactions with counterparties in the financial industry,
    including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment
    banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients.
    During 2008, Key incurred $54 million of derivative-related
    charges as a result of market disruption caused by the failure
    of Lehman Brothers. Another example of losses related to this
    type of risk are the losses associated with the Bernie Madoff
    ponzi scheme (“Madoff ponzi scheme”). As a result of
    the Madoff ponzi scheme, our investment subsidiary, Austin,
    determined that its funds had suffered investment losses up to
    $186 million. Following Lehman Brothers’ failure, we
    took several steps to better measure, monitor, and mitigate our
    counterparty risks and to reduce these exposures and implemented
    our Enterprise Risk Management Program to better monitor and
    evaluate risk presented enterprise-wide. These measures include
    daily position measurement and reporting, the use of scenario
    analysis and stress testing, replacement cost estimation, risk
    mitigation strategies, and market feedback validation.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    Many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the
    event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our
    credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot
    be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to
    recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due
    us. It is not possible to anticipate all of these risks and it
    is not feasible to mitigate these risks completely. Accordingly,
    there is no assurance that our Enterprise Risk Management
    program will effectively mitigate these risks. Accordingly,
    these factors could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    We are
    subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our
    funding levels.


 


    Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the
    level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to
    accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet
    contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business
    transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and
    without adverse consequences. Although we have implemented
    strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding
    to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in
    assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions,
    any substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us. Certain credit markets that we
    participate in and rely upon as sources of funding were
    significantly disrupted and volatile from the third quarter of
    2007 through the third quarter of 2009. Credit markets have
    improved since then, and we have significantly reduced our
    reliance on wholesale funding sources. Part of our strategy to
    reduce liquidity risk involves promoting customer deposit
    growth, exiting certain noncore lending businesses, diversifying
    our funding base, maintaining a liquid asset portfolio, and
    strengthening our capital base to reduce our need for debt as a
    source of liquidity. Many of these disrupted markets are showing
    signs of recovery. Nonetheless, if further market disruption or
    other factors reduce the cost effectiveness
    and/or the
    availability of supply in the credit markets for a prolonged
    period of time, should our funding needs necessitate it, we may
    need to expand the utilization of unsecured wholesale funding
    instruments, or use other potential means of accessing funding
    and managing liquidity such as generating client deposits,
    securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of
    wholesale borrowings, purchasing deposits from other banks,
    borrowing under certain secured wholesale facilities, and
    utilizing relationships developed with fixed income investors in
    a variety of markets — domestic, European and
    Canadian — as well as increased management of loan
    growth and investment opportunities and other management tools.
    There can be no assurance that these alternative means of
    funding will be available; under certain stressed conditions
    experienced in the liquidity crisis during
    2007-2009,
    some of these alternative means of funding were not available.
    Should these forms of funding become unavailable, it is unclear
    what impact, given current economic conditions, unavailability
    of such funding would have on us. A deep and prolonged
    disruption in the markets could have the effect of significantly
    restricting the accessibility of cost effective capital and
    funding, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Various
    factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to
    increase.


 


    We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a
    reserve established through a provision for loan and lease
    losses charged to expense, that represents our estimate of
    losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance is
    necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and
    risks incurred in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance
    reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations,
    specific credit risks, loan and lease loss experience, current
    loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and
    regulatory conditions, and incurred losses inherent in the
    current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate
    level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently
    involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make
    significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends,
    all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic
    conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of certain
    economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as
    unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding
    existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and
    other factors, both within and outside of our control, may
    require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses.
    In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our
    allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase
    in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of
    further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ
    somewhat from those of our own management. In addition, if
    charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and
    lease losses (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is
    inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss
    provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses.
    Additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan and
    lease losses, should they become necessary, would result in a
    decrease in net income and capital and may have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    We are
    subject to operational risk.


 


    We are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of
    loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal
    processes and systems, and external events. Operational risk
    also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of
    loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules,
    regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. We are
    also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing
    arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or
    capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability
    to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our
    business, such as certain loan processing functions.
    Additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located
    overseas and therefore are subject to political risks unique to
    the regions in which they operate. Although we seek to mitigate
    operational risk through a





    
    18



Table of Contents





    system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational
    risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased
    operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone
    opportunities, any and all of which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Our
    profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in
    the geographic regions in which we operate.


 


    Our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the
    markets in which we operate. We have concentrations of loans and
    other business activities in geographic areas where our branches
    are located — the Northwest, the Rocky Mountains, the
    Great Lakes and the Northeast — as well as potential
    exposure to geographic areas outside of our branch footprint.
    For example, the nonowner-occupied properties segment of our
    commercial real estate portfolio has exposures in markets
    outside of our footprint. Real estate values and cash flows have
    been negatively affected on a national basis due to weak
    economic conditions. Certain markets, such as Florida, southern
    California, Phoenix, Arizona, and Las Vegas, Nevada, have
    experienced more significant deterioration. The delinquencies,
    nonperforming loans and charge-offs that we have experienced
    since 2007 have been more heavily weighted to these specific
    markets. The regional economic conditions in areas in which we
    conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our
    products and services as well as the ability of our customers to
    repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the
    stability of our deposit funding sources. A significant decline
    in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession,
    an act of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other
    international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in
    securities markets or other factors, such as severe declines in
    the value of homes and other real estate, could also impact
    these regional economies and, in turn, have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 





    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and market
    areas.


 


    We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations
    from a variety of different competitors, many of which are
    larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors
    primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as
    smaller community banks within the various markets in which we
    operate. We also face competition from many other types of
    financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings
    associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance
    companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment
    management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and
    other local, regional and national financial services firms. In
    recent years, while the breadth of the institutions that we
    compete with has increased, competition has intensified as a
    result of consolidation efforts. During 2009, competition
    continued to intensify as the challenges of the liquidity crisis
    and market disruption led to further redistribution of deposits
    and certain banking assets to strong and large financial
    institutions. We expect this trend to continue. The competitive
    landscape was also affected by the conversion of traditional
    investment banks to bank holding companies during the liquidity
    crisis due to the access it provides to government-sponsored
    sources of liquidity. The financial services industry’s
    competitive landscape could become even more intensified as a
    result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological
    changes and continued consolidation. Also, technology has
    lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to
    offer products and services traditionally provided by banks.


 


    Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of
    factors, including, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and
    initiatives;








     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term
    customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical
    standards and safe, sound assets;








     
        • 

    
    our ability to expand our market position;








     
        • 

    
    the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services
    offered to meet customer needs and demands;








     
        • 

    
    the rate at which we introduce new products and services
    relative to our competitors;








     
        • 

    
    our ability to attract and retain talented executives and
    relationship managers; and








     
        • 

    
    industry and general economic trends.





 


    Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly
    weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect
    our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    We are
    subject to extensive government regulation and
    supervision.


 


    We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and
    supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to
    protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds
    and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These
    regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure,
    investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other
    things. KeyCorp, as well as other financial institutions more
    generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny
    from regulatory authorities stemming from broader systemic
    regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing,
    capital levels, asset quality, provisioning and other prudential
    matters, arising as a result of the recent financial crisis and
    efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to
    improve their risk management and prevent future crises.


 


    Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review
    banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The
    passage of the Dodd-Frank Act has made it clear that a variety
    of significant changes to the banking and financial
    institutions’





    
    19



Table of Contents





    regulatory regime will be implemented over the next few years.
    It is not possible to predict the scope of such changes or their
    potential impact on our financial position or results of
    operations.


 


    These regulations or others designed to implement parts of
    comprehensive financial regulatory reform could limit our
    ability to conduct certain of our businesses, such as funds that
    are managed by our investment advisor subsidiary, Victory
    Capital Management Inc., or funds sponsored and advised by our
    principal investing line of business, which could require us to
    divest or spin-off certain of our business units and private
    equity investments. Furthermore, as part of the SCAP, Key was
    identified as a financial institution that was one of nineteen
    firms that collectively hold two-thirds of the banking assets
    and more than one-half of the loans in the U.S. banking
    system. While it is difficult to predict the extent or nature of
    regulatory reform, should regulatory reform limit the size of
    the SCAP banks, our ability to pursue opportunities to achieve
    growth through the acquisition of other banks or deposits could
    be affected, which, in turn could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on Us.


 


    Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes
    in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations
    or policies;
    and/or
    continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices,
    requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways, and could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the
    types of financial services and products that we may offer
    and/or
    increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial
    services and products, among other things. Failure to
    appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies
    (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent
    such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory
    agencies, civil money penalties
    and/or
    reputation damage, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us.


 





    Our
    controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.


 


    We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure
    controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and
    procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and
    operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can
    provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the
    objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention
    of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with
    regulations related to controls and procedures could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    We rely
    on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our
    funds.


 


    We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our
    subsidiaries. With the exception of cash raised from debt and
    equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow
    from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the
    principal source of funds to pay dividends on our equity
    securities and interest and principal on our debt. Federal
    banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that
    KeyBank (our largest subsidiary) and certain nonbank
    subsidiaries may pay to us. During 2008 and 2009, KeyBank did
    not pay any dividends to us; nonbank subsidiaries paid us
    $25 million in dividends during 2010. During 2010, KeyBank
    could not pay dividends to KeyCorp because KeyBank’s net
    losses of $1.151 billion for 2009 and $1.161 billion
    for 2008 exceeded KeyBank’s net income during 2010. For
    further information on the regulatory restrictions on the
    payment of dividends by KeyBank, see “Supervision and
    Regulation — Capital Actions, Dividend Restrictions
    and the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program” of this
    report.


 


    Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon
    a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to
    the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the
    event KeyBank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be
    able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our
    equity securities. The inability to receive dividends from
    KeyBank could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Our
    earnings and/or financial condition may be affected by changes
    in accounting principles and in tax laws, or the interpretation
    of them.


 


    Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. Although these
    changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they
    could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain
    performance measures.


 


    Like all businesses, we are subject to tax laws, rules and
    regulations. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations,
    including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax
    laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or
    other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional
    costs, among other things. Failure to appropriately comply with
    tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by
    regulatory agencies, civil money penalties
    and/or
    reputation damage, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us.


 


    Additionally, we conduct quarterly assessments of our deferred
    tax assets. The carrying value of these assets is dependent upon
    earnings forecasts and prior period earnings, among other
    things. A significant change in our assumptions could affect the
    carrying value of our deferred tax assets on our balance sheet,
    which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.




    
    20



Table of Contents








    Potential
    acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder
    value.


 


    Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various
    risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the
    target company;








     
        • 

    
    exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;








     
        • 

    
    difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and
    personnel of the target company;








     
        • 

    
    potential disruption to our business;








     
        • 

    
    potential diversion of our management’s time and attention;








     
        • 

    
    the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target
    company;








     
        • 

    
    difficulty in estimating the value (i.e. the assets and
    liabilities) of the target company;








     
        • 

    
    difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets,
    liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and








     
        • 

    
    potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may
    affect the target company.





 


    We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and
    conduct due diligence activities related to possible
    transactions with other financial institutions and financial
    services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition
    discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and
    future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity
    securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve
    the payment of a premium over book and market values, and,
    therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net
    income per Common Share may occur in connection with any future
    transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected
    revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or
    product presence,
    and/or other
    projected benefits from an acquisition could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    We may
    not be able to attract and retain skilled people.


 


    Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract
    and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most
    activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may
    not be able to retain or hire the people we want
    and/or need.
    In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must
    compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those
    levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest
    expense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain
    qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our
    competitive position, our performance, including our competitive
    position, could suffer, and, in turn, have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us. Although we have incentive compensation plans
    aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected
    loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still
    occur, and such events may have a Material Adverse Effect on Us
    because of the loss of the employee’s skills, knowledge of
    our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of
    promptly finding qualified replacement personnel for our
    talented executives
    and/or
    relationship managers.


 


    Pursuant to the standardized terms of the CPP, among other
    things, we agreed to institute certain restrictions on the
    compensation of certain senior executive management positions
    that could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or
    retain the most qualified senior executives. Other restrictions
    were imposed under the Recovery Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and
    other legislation or regulations. Our ability to attract
    and/or
    retain talented executives
    and/or
    relationship managers may be affected by these developments or
    any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Our
    information systems may experience an interruption or breach in
    security.


 


    We rely heavily on communications and information systems to
    conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in
    security of these systems could result in failures or
    disruptions in our customer relationship management, general
    ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies
    and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the
    possible failure, interruption or security breach of our
    information systems, there can be no assurance that any such
    failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if
    any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. The
    occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of
    our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a
    loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory
    scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible
    financial liability, any of which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 





    We
    continually encounter technological change.


 


    The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid
    technological change with frequent introductions of new
    technology-driven products and services. The effective use of
    technology increases efficiency and enables financial
    institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our
    future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the
    needs of our customers by using technology to provide products
    and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to
    create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest
    competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in
    technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively
    implement new technology-driven products and services or be
    successful in





    
    21



Table of Contents





    marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure
    to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting
    the financial services industry could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.


 





    We are
    subject to claims and litigation.


 


    From time to time, customers
    and/or
    vendors may make claims and take legal actions against us. We
    maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate
    based upon our assessment of the claims. Whether any particular
    claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such
    claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may
    result in significant financial liability
    and/or
    adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products
    and services as well as impact customer demand for those
    products and services. We are also involved, from time to time,
    in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal
    and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies
    regarding our business, including, among other things,
    accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result
    in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions
    or other relief. The number of these investigations and
    proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many
    firms in the financial services industry. There have also been a
    number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct
    by employees in the financial services industry in recent years,
    and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is
    not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and
    the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may
    not be effective in all cases. Any financial liability for which
    we have not adequately maintained reserves,
    and/or any
    reputation damage from such claims and legal actions, could have
    a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Severe
    weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other
    external events could significantly impact our
    business.


 


    Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and
    other adverse external events could have a significant impact on
    our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the
    stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers
    to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral
    securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in
    loss of revenue
    and/or cause
    us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established
    disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitor for
    significant environmental effects on our properties or our
    investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Risks
    Associated With Our Common Shares


 





    Our
    issuance of securities to the U.S. Treasury may limit our
    ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to
    our Common Shares. If we are unable to redeem such preferred
    shares, the dividend rate will increase substantially after five
    years.


 


    In connection with our sale of $2.5 billion of the
    Series B Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury in
    conjunction with its CPP, we also issued a Warrant to purchase
    35,244,361 of our Common Shares at an exercise price of $10.64.
    The number of shares was determined based upon the requirements
    of the CPP, and was calculated based on the average market price
    of our Common Shares for the 20 trading days preceding approval
    of our issuance (which was also the basis for the exercise price
    of $10.64). The terms of the transaction with the
    U.S. Treasury include limitations on our ability to pay
    dividends and repurchase our Common Shares. For three years
    after the issuance or until the U.S. Treasury no longer
    holds any Series B Preferred Stock, we will not be able to
    increase our dividends above the level of our quarterly dividend
    declared during the third quarter 2008 ($0.1875 per common share
    on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our Common Shares or
    preferred stock without, among other things, U.S. Treasury
    approval or the availability of certain limited exceptions
    (e.g., purchases in connection with our benefit plans).
    Furthermore, as long as the Series B Preferred Stock issued
    to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and
    repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity
    securities, including our Common Shares, are prohibited until
    all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred
    stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. These
    restrictions, combined with the dilutive impact of the Warrant,
    may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common
    Shares, and, as a result, could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on Us.


 


    Unless we are able to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock
    during the first five years, the dividend payments on this
    capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5%
    ($125 million annually) to 9% ($225 million annually).
    Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in
    dividends could significantly impact our liquidity and, as a
    result, have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    You may
    not receive dividends on the Common Shares.


 


    Holders of our Common Shares are only entitled to receive such
    dividends as the Board of Directors may declare out of funds
    legally available for such payments. Furthermore, our common
    shareholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any
    holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing
    such preferred stock then outstanding. As of February 17,
    2011, there were 2,904,839 shares of KeyCorp’s
    Series A Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of
    $100 per share issued and





    
    22



Table of Contents





    outstanding and 25,000 shares of the Series B
    Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per
    share issued and outstanding.


 


    In July 2009, we reduced the quarterly dividend on our Common
    Shares to $0.01 per share. As long as our Series A
    Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock are
    outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions
    relating to certain equity securities, including our Common
    Shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends
    are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited
    exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless
    we have redeemed all of the Series B Preferred Stock or the
    U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series B
    Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the
    U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other
    things, increase our Common Shares dividend above $.1875, except
    in limited circumstances should we redeem the
    U.S. Treasury’s investment, our ability to increase
    our dividend. These factors could adversely affect the market
    price of our Common Shares. Also, KeyCorp is a bank holding
    company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is
    dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations,
    including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding
    capital adequacy and dividends.


 


    In addition, terms of KeyBank’s outstanding junior
    subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or
    paying any dividends or distributions on KeyCorp’s capital
    stock, including its Common Shares, or purchasing, acquiring, or
    making a liquidation payment on such stock, if an event of
    default has occurred and is continuing under the applicable
    indenture, if we are in default with respect to a guarantee
    payment under the guarantee of the related capital securities or
    if we have given notice of our election to defer interest
    payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced
    or a deferral period is continuing. These factors could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    There may
    be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may
    adversely affect the market price of our Common
    Shares.


 


    We are not restricted from issuing additional Common Shares,
    including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable
    for, or that represent the right to receive, Common Shares. As
    described above, in connection with our sale of
    $2.5 billion of Series B Preferred Stock to the
    U.S. Treasury, we issued to the Department of the Treasury
    a Warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our Common Shares at an
    exercise price of $10.64, subject to adjustment. Although we
    have the right to repurchase the Warrant at a negotiated price,
    we may not desire or be able to do so; and if we do not
    repurchase the Warrant, the U.S. Treasury could either
    exercise the Warrant or sell it to third parties. The issuance
    of additional Common Shares as a result of exercise of this
    Warrant or the issuance of convertible securities would dilute
    the ownership interest of existing holders of our Common Shares.
    In addition, we have in the past and may in the future issue
    options, convertible preferred stock,
    and/or other
    securities that may have a dilutive effect on our Common Shares.
    The market price of our Common Shares could decline as a result
    of any such offering, other capital raising strategies or other
    sales of a large block of shares of our Common Shares or similar
    securities in the market, or the perception that such sales
    could occur.


 





    Our
    Common Shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and
    future indebtedness and preferred stock and effectively
    subordinated to all the indebtedness and other non-common equity
    claims against our subsidiaries.


 


    Our Common Shares are equity interests and do not constitute
    indebtedness. As such, our Common Shares will rank junior to all
    of our current and future indebtedness and to other non-equity
    claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims
    against us, including in the event of our liquidation.
    Additionally, holders of our Common Shares are subject to the
    prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our
    outstanding preferred stock. Our board of directors is
    authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred
    stock without any action on the part of the holders of our
    Common Shares. In addition, our right to participate in any
    distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the
    subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise, and thus the ability
    of a holder of our Common Shares to benefit indirectly from such
    distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors
    of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims
    as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. As a result,
    our Common Shares will effectively be subordinated to all
    existing and future liabilities and obligations of our
    subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, we had
    $13.8 billion of borrowed funds and $60.6 billion of
    deposits; and the aggregate liquidation preference of our
    outstanding preferred stock was $2.7 billion.


 





    Our share
    price can be volatile.


 


    Share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to
    resell your Common Shares when you want and at prices you find
    attractive. Our share price can fluctuate significantly in
    response to a variety of factors including, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of
    operations;








     
        • 

    
    recommendation by securities analysts;








     
        • 

    
    operating and stock price performance of other companies that
    investors deem comparable to our business;








     
        • 

    
    changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets,
    including the market for mortgage-related securities;








     
        • 

    
    news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in
    the financial services industry;







    
    23



Table of Contents









    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    perceptions of us
    and/or our
    competitors in the marketplace;








     
        • 

    
    new technology used, or products or services offered, by
    competitors;








     
        • 

    
    significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic
    partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into
    by us or our competitors;








     
        • 

    
    failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated
    benefits from acquisitions;








     
        • 

    
    future sales of our equity or equity-related securities;








     
        • 

    
    our past and future dividend practices;








     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations affecting our industry
    generally or our business and operations;








     
        • 

    
    changes in global financial markets, economies and market
    conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock,
    commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility;








     
        • 

    
    geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or
    military conflicts; and








     
        • 

    
    the occurrence or nonoccurrence, as appropriate, of any
    circumstance described in these Risk Factors.





 


    General market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors
    and general economic and political conditions and events, such
    as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or
    credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease
    regardless of operating results. Any of these factors could have
    a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    An
    investment in our Common Shares is not an insured
    deposit.


 


    Our Common Shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not
    insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance
    fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our
    Common Shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in
    this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this
    report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the
    price of common shares in any company. As a result, if you
    acquire our Common Shares, you may lose some or all of your
    investment.


 





    Our
    articles of incorporation and regulations, as well as certain
    banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect.


 


    Provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and
    federal banking laws, including regulatory approval
    requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to
    acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial
    to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may
    inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination,
    which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our
    Common Shares.


 





    Risks
    Associated With Our Industry


 





    Maintaining
    or increasing our market share may depend upon our ability to
    adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards
    and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices
    for our products and services.


 


    The continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies,
    including internet services, requires us to evaluate our product
    and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. Our
    success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products
    and services to evolving industry standards and consumer
    preferences. There is increasing pressure from our competitors,
    both bank and non-bank, to keep pace with evolving preferences
    of consumers and businesses. Payment methods and financial
    service providers have evolved as the advancement of technology
    has made possible the delivery of financial products and
    services through different mediums and providers, such as cell
    phones and pay-pal accounts; thereby, increasing competitive
    pressure in the delivery of financial products and services. The
    adoption of new technologies could require us to make
    substantial expenditures to modify our existing products and
    services. Furthermore, we might not be successful in developing
    or introducing new products and services, adapting to changing
    consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving
    market acceptance or regulatory approval, or sufficiently
    developing or maintaining a loyal customer base. The
    introduction of new products and services has the potential to
    introduce risk which, in turn, can present challenges to us in
    operating within our risk tolerances while also achieving growth
    in our market share. In addition, there is increasing pressure
    from our competitors to deliver products and services at lower
    prices. These factors could reduce our revenues from our net
    interest margin and fee-based products and services and have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Certain
    industries, including the financial services industry, are more
    significantly affected by certain economic factors such as
    unemployment and real estate asset values. Should the
    improvement of these economic factors lag the improvement of the
    overall economy, or not occur, we could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Should the stabilization of the U.S. economy lead to a
    general economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic
    factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and
    rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall
    economy, or not occur at all. These economic factors typically
    affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial
    services, more significantly. For example, improvements in
    commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic
    recovery by twelve to eighteen months. Our clients include
    entities active in these industries. Furthermore, financial
    services companies with a substantial lending business, like
    ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make
    debt service payments on





    
    24



Table of Contents





    loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to
    recover for an extended period of time, it could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Difficult
    market conditions have adversely affected the financial services
    industry, business and results of operations.


 


    The dramatic deterioration experienced in the housing market
    since 2007 led to weakness across geographies, industries, and
    ultimately the broad economy. During this period, the housing
    market experienced falling home prices, increasing foreclosures;
    unemployment and under-employment rose significantly; and
    weakened commercial real estate fundamentals negatively impacted
    the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in
    significant write-downs of asset values by financial
    institutions, including government-sponsored entities, and
    commercial and investment banks. The resulting write-downs to
    assets of financial institutions caused many financial
    institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger
    and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government
    assistance or bankruptcy protection. It is not possible to
    predict if these economic conditions will re-emerge, which of
    our markets, products or other businesses may ultimately be
    affected, and whether our actions and government remediation
    efforts may effectively mitigate these factors. If economic
    conditions deteriorate, it could result in an increase in loan
    delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan
    collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and
    services, among other things, any of which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.


 


    If economic conditions deteriorate, we may face the following
    risks, including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal
    standards and regulatory requirements or expectations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our
    customers if the models and approaches we use to select, manage,
    and underwrite customers become less predictive of future
    behaviors due to fundamental changes in economic conditions.




 



     
        • 

    
    The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit
    exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments,
    including forecasts of economic conditions and how these
    economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers
    to repay their loans. In a highly uncertain economic
    environment, these processes may no longer be capable of
    accurate estimation and, in turn, may impact the reliability of
    our evaluation of our credit risk and exposure.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to
    engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms
    or at all could be adversely affected by future disruptions in
    the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating
    agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.




 



     
        • 

    
    We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in
    the future because market developments significantly deplete the
    insurance fund of the FDIC and reduce the ratio of reserves to
    insured deposits.




 



     
        • 

    
    Financial institutions may be required, regardless of risk, to
    pay taxes or other fees to the U.S. Treasury. Such taxes or
    other fees could be designed to reimburse the U.S. Treasury
    for the many government programs and initiatives it may
    undertake as part of its economic stimulus efforts.





 





    Financial
    services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of
    information about customers and counterparties.


 


    In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
    transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on
    behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial
    statements, credit reports and other financial information. We
    may also rely on representations of those customers,
    counterparties or other third parties, such as independent
    auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that
    information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial
    statements, credit reports or other financial information could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 





    Consumers
    may decide not to use banks to complete their financial
    transactions.


 


    Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete
    through alternative methods financial transactions that
    historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now
    maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would
    have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also
    complete transactions such as paying bills
    and/or
    transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The
    process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as
    “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee
    income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related
    income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue
    streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.


 







    
    



    
    ITEM 1B