ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    An investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent
    to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that
    management believes affect us are described below. Before making
    an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks
    and uncertainties described below together with all of the other
    information included or



    
    9



Table of Contents




    incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and
    uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.
    Although we have significant risk management policies,
    procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks
    and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on
    or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair
    our business operations. This report is qualified in its
    entirety by these risk factors.


 


    If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial
    condition and results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our
    common shares could decline, perhaps significantly, and you
    could lose all or part of your investment.


 



    Risks
    Related To Our Business


 



    We Are
    Subject To Interest Rate Risk


 


    Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net
    interest income. Net interest income is the difference between
    interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans
    and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing
    liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates
    are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our
    control, including general economic conditions, the competitive
    environment within our markets, consumer preferences for
    specific loan and deposit products and policies of various
    governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the
    Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including
    changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount
    of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of
    interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes
    could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain
    deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and
    liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other
    borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we
    receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income,
    and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings
    could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on
    loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest
    we pay on deposits and other borrowings.


 


    Although management believes it has implemented effective asset
    and liability management strategies, including the use of
    derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential
    effects of changes in interest rates on our results of
    operations, any substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations. Additional information regarding interest rate risk
    is included in the section captioned “Risk
    Management — Market risk
    management — Interest rate risk management”
    beginning on page 47 of the Financial Review section of
    KeyCorp’s 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We Are
    Subject To Other Market Risk In Addition To Interest Rate
    Risk


 


    The values of some financial instruments vary not only with
    changes in market interest rates, but also with changes in
    foreign exchange rates, factors influencing valuations in the
    equity securities markets and other market-driven rates or
    prices. For example, the value of a fixed-rate bond will decline
    if market interest rates increase. Similarly, the value of the
    U.S. dollar regularly fluctuates in relation to other
    currencies. When the value of an instrument is tied to such
    external factors, the holder faces “market risk.”


 


    Although management believes it has implemented effective
    strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in
    interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and credit
    spreads on the fair value of our trading portfolio, any
    substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in those factors could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
    Additional information regarding market risk is included in the
    section captioned “Risk Management — Market risk
    management — Trading portfolio risk management”
    beginning on page 49 of the Financial Review section of
    KeyCorp’s 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We Are
    Subject To Credit Risk


 


    There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading
    activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact
    of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic
    conditions in the markets where we operate. Increases in
    interest rates
    and/or
    weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability
    of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the
    collateral securing these loans. We also are subject to various
    laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Failure
    to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us
    to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the
    assessment against us of civil money or other penalties.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 


    As of December 31, 2006, approximately 73.4% of our loan
    portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural
    loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial
    mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. These
    types of loans (and leases) are generally viewed as potentially
    having more risk of default than residential real estate loans
    or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically
    larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans.
    Although we closely monitor and manage risk concentrations and
    utilize various portfolio management practices to limit
    excessive concentrations when it is feasible to do so, our loan
    portfolio still does contain a number of commercial loans with
    relatively large balances. The deterioration of one or a few of
    these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing
    loans, and an increase in non-performing loans could result in a
    net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the
    provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan
    charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional
    information regarding credit risk is included in the section
    captioned “Risk Management — Credit risk
    management” beginning on page 49 of the Financial
    Review section of KeyCorp’s 2006 Annual Report to
    Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    Various
    Factors May Cause Our Allowance For Possible Loan Losses To
    Increase


 


    We maintain an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a
    reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses
    charged to expense, that represents management’s estimate
    of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The
    allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to
    reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan
    portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s
    continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific
    credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio
    quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions;
    and unexpected losses inherent in the current loan portfolio.
    The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for
    possible loan losses inherently involves a degree of
    subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of
    current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo
    material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting
    borrowers, new information regarding existing loans,
    identification of additional problem loans and other factors,
    both within and outside of our control, may require an increase
    in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank
    regulatory agencies and our independent auditors periodically
    review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase
    in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of
    further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ
    somewhat from those of our own management. In addition, if
    charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible
    loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the
    allowance for possible loan losses. Additional provisions to
    increase the allowance for possible loan losses, should they
    become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and
    capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition and results of operations. Additional information
    regarding the allowance for loan losses is included in the
    section captioned “Risk Management — Credit risk
    management — Allowance for loan losses” beginning
    on page 50 of the Financial Review section of
    KeyCorp’s 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We Are
    Subject To Liquidity Risk


 


    Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the
    level or cost of liquidity, affecting our ongoing ability to
    accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet
    contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business
    transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and
    without adverse consequences.  Although management has
    implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse
    sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as
    unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both
    normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.  Additional information regarding liquidity risk
    is included in the section captioned “Risk
    Management — Liquidity risk management” beginning
    on page 54 of the Financial Review section of
    KeyCorp’s 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We Are
    Subject To Operational Risk


 


    We, like all businesses, are subject to operational risk, which
    represents the risk of loss resulting from human error,
    inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and
    external events. Operational risk also encompasses compliance
    (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or
    noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed
    practices or ethical standards. Although we seek to mitigate
    operational risk through a system of internal controls,
    resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of
    explicit charges, increased operational costs,



    
    11



Table of Contents




    harm to our reputation or foregone opportunities, any and all of
    which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition and results of operations.  Additional information
    regarding operational risk is included in the section captioned
    “Risk Management — Operational risk
    management” beginning on page 57 of the Financial
    Review section of KeyCorp’s 2006 Annual Report to
    Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    Our
    Profitability Depends Significantly On Economic Conditions In
    The Geographic Regions In Which We Operate


 


    Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions
    of the markets in which we operate. Although we are somewhat
    geographically diversified, assisted in part in this respect by
    our “out of footprint” commercial real estate and
    equipment leasing lines of business, we still do have
    concentrations of loans and other business activities in
    geographic areas where our KeyCenters are principally
    located — the Midwest, the Northeast and the Pacific
    Northwest.  The regional economic conditions in these areas have
    an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as
    the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the
    collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit
    funding sources.  A significant decline in general economic
    conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism,
    outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic
    occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or
    other factors could also impact these regional economies and, in
    turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    We
    Operate In A Highly Competitive Industry And Market
    Areas


 


    We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations
    from a variety of different competitors, many of which are
    larger and may have more financial resources.  Such competitors
    primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as
    smaller community banks within the various markets in which we
    operate. However, we also face competition from many other types
    of financial institutions, including, without limitation,
    savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies,
    finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment
    management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and
    other local, regional and national financial services firms. The
    financial services industry could become even more competitive
    as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes
    and continued consolidation.  Also, technology has lowered
    barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer
    products and services traditionally provided by banks.


 


    Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of
    factors, including, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and
    initiatives.



 


     
        • 

    
    Our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term
    customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical
    standards and safe, sound assets.



 


     
        • 

    
    Our ability to expand our market position.



 


     
        • 

    
    The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services
    offered to meet customer needs and demands.



 


     
        • 

    
    The rate at which we introduce new products and services
    relative to our competitors.



 


     
        • 

    
    Industry and general economic trends.





 


    Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly
    weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect
    our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    We Are
    Subject To Extensive Government Regulation And
    Supervision


 


    We, primarily through KBNA and certain of its non-bank
    subsidiaries, are subject to extensive federal and state
    regulation and supervision.  Banking regulations are primarily
    intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit
    insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not
    shareholders.  These regulations affect our lending practices,
    capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and
    growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory
    agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and
    policies for possible changes.  Changes to statutes, regulations
    or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or
    implementation of statutes, regulations or policies;
    and/or
    continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices,
    requirements or



    
    12



Table of Contents




    expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable
    ways.  Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit
    the types of financial services and products that we may offer
    and/or
    increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial
    services and products, among other things. Failure to
    appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies
    (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent
    such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory
    agencies, civil money penalties
    and/or
    reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.
    Additional information regarding supervision and regulation is
    included in the section captioned “Supervision and
    Regulation” in Item 1. Business, beginning on
    page 2 of this report.


 



    Our
    Controls And Procedures May Fail Or Be
    Circumvented


 


    Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls,
    disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance
    policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well
    designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions
    and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that
    the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or
    circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to
    comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 



    We
    Rely On Dividends From Our Subsidiaries For Most Of Our
    Revenue


 


    KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its
    subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its revenue from
    dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the
    principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares
    and interest and principal on our debt. Various laws and
    regulations limit the amount of dividends that KBNA and certain
    non-bank subsidiaries may pay to KeyCorp. Also, KeyCorp’s
    right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a
    subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to
    the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the
    event KBNA is unable to pay dividends to KeyCorp, we may not be
    able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our
    common shares. The inability to receive dividends from KBNA
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. Additional information
    regarding dividend restrictions is included in the section
    captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1.
    Business, beginning on page 2 of this report.


 



    Potential
    Acquisitions May Disrupt Our Business And Dilute Shareholder
    Value


 


    Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various
    risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the
    target company.



 


     
        • 

    
    Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company.



 


     
        • 

    
    Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and
    personnel of the target company.



 


     
        • 

    
    Potential disruption to our business.



 


     
        • 

    
    Potential diversion of our management’s time and attention.



 


     
        • 

    
    The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target
    company.



 


     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the
    target company.



 


     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets,
    liabilities and derivatives of the target company.



 


     
        • 

    
    Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may
    affect the target company.





 


    We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and
    conduct due diligence activities related to possible
    transactions with other financial institutions and financial
    services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition
    discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and
    future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity
    securities may occur at any time.  Acquisitions typically
    involve the payment of a premium over book and market values,
    and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net
    income per common share may



    
    13



Table of Contents




    occur in connection with any future transaction.  Furthermore,
    failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings,
    increases in geographic or product presence,
    and/or other
    projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    We May
    Not Be Able To Attract And Retain Skilled People


 


    Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract
    and retain key people.  Competition for the best people in most
    activities in which we are engaged can be intense and we may not
    be able to hire or retain the people we want
    and/or need.
    Although we maintain employment agreements with certain key
    employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part,
    at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services
    of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such
    events may have a material adverse impact on our business
    because of the loss of the employee’s skills, knowledge of
    our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of
    promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.


 



    Our
    Information Systems May Experience An Interruption Or Breach In
    Security


 


    We rely heavily on communications and information systems to
    conduct our business.  Any failure, interruption or breach in
    security of these systems could result in failures or
    disruptions in our customer relationship management, general
    ledger, deposit, loan and other systems.  While we have policies
    and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the
    possible failure, interruption or security breach of our
    information systems, there can be no assurance that any such
    failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or,
    if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The
    occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches
    of our information systems could damage our reputation, result
    in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional
    regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and
    possible financial liability, any of which could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    We
    Continually Encounter Technological Change


 


    The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid
    technological change with frequent introductions of new
    technology-driven products and services. The effective use of
    technology increases efficiency and enables financial
    institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs.  Our
    future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the
    needs of our customers by using technology to provide products
    and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to
    create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest
    competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in
    technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively
    implement new technology-driven products and services or be
    successful in marketing these products and services to our
    customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological
    change affecting the financial services industry could have a
    material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    We Are
    Subject To Claims And Litigation


 


    From time to time, customers
    and/or
    vendors may make claims and take legal action against us.
    Whether these claims and legal action are founded or unfounded,
    if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor
    they may result in significant financial liability
    and/or
    adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products
    and services as well as impact customer demand for those
    products and services. Any financial liability or reputation
    damage could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Our
    Earnings May Be Affected By Changes In Accounting Principles And
    In Tax Laws


 


    Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    could have a significant adverse effect on Key’s reported
    financial results. Although these changes may not have an
    economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability
    to attain targeted levels for certain performance measures.


 


    We, like all businesses, are subject to tax laws, rules and
    regulations. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations,
    including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax
    laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in
    substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject
    us to additional costs, among other things. Failure to
    appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could
    result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money
    penalties
    and/or
    reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Severe
    Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts Of War Or Terrorism And Other
    External Events Could 
    Significantly Impact Our Business


 


    Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and
    other adverse external events could have a significant impact on
    our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the
    stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers
    to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral
    securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in
    loss of revenue
    and/or cause
    us to incur additional expenses. Although management has
    established disaster recovery plans and procedures, the
    occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Our Common Shares


 



    Our
    Share Price Can Be Volatile


 


    Share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to
    resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find
    attractive.  Our share price can fluctuate significantly in
    response to a variety of factors including, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of
    operations.



 


     
        • 

    
    Recommendations by securities analysts.



 


     
        • 

    
    Operating and stock price performance of other companies that
    investors deem comparable to our business.



 


     
        • 

    
    News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in
    the financial services industry.



 


     
        • 

    
    Perceptions of us
    and/or our
    competitors in the marketplace.



 


     
        • 

    
    New technology used, or services offered, by competitors.



 


     
        • 

    
    Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic
    partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into
    by us or our competitors.



 


     
        • 

    
    Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated
    benefits from acquisitions.



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in government regulations.



 


     
        • 

    
    Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or
    military conflicts.





 


    General market fluctuations, industry factors and general
    economic and political conditions and events, such as economic
    slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss
    trends, could also cause our share price to decrease regardless
    of operating results.


 



    An
    Investment In Our Common Shares Is Not An Insured
    Deposit


 


    Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not
    insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance
    fund or by any other public or private entity.  Investment in
    our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described
    in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this
    report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the
    price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you
    acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your
    investment.


 



    Our
    Articles Of Incorporation, Regulations And Shareholders
    Rights Plan As Well As Certain Banking Laws May Have An
    Anti-Takeover Effect


 


    Provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations,
    federal banking laws, including regulatory approval
    requirements, and our stock purchase rights plan could make it
    more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so
    would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders.  The
    combination of these provisions may inhibit a



    
    15



Table of Contents




    non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in
    turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common
    shares.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Our Industry


 



    The
    Earnings Of Financial Services Companies Are Significantly
    Affected By General Business And 
    Economic Conditions


 


    Our operations and profitability are impacted by general
    business and economic conditions in the United States and
    abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term
    interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues,
    legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt
    and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and
    finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local
    economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our
    control. A deterioration in economic conditions could result in
    an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets,
    decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for
    our products and services, among other things, any of which
    could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Financial
    Services Companies Depend On The Accuracy And Completeness Of
    Information About 
    Customers And Counterparties


 


    In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
    transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on
    behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial
    statements, credit reports and other financial information. We
    may also rely on representations of those customers,
    counterparties or other third parties, such as independent
    auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that
    information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial
    statements, credit reports or other financial information could
    have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Consumers
    May Decide Not To Use Banks To Complete Their Financial
    Transactions


 


    Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete
    through alternative methods financial transactions that
    historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now
    maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would
    have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also
    complete transactions such as paying bills
    and/or
    transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The
    process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as
    “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee
    income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related
    income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue
    streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B