ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    An investment in our Common Shares is subject to risks inherent
    to our business, our industry and ownership of our equity
    securities. Described below are certain risks and uncertainties
    that management has identified as material. Before making an
    investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and
    uncertainties described below together with all of the other
    information included or incorporated by reference in this
    report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the
    only ones we face. Although we have significant risk management
    policies, procedures and verification processes in place,
    additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware
    of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial
    may also impair our business operations. This report is
    qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.


 


    IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS,
    FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND/OR ACCESS TO
    LIQUIDITY AND/OR CREDIT COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY
    AFFECTED (“MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON KEY”). IF THIS
    WERE TO HAPPEN, THE VALUE OF OUR SECURITIES — COMMON
    SHARES, SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES B PREFERRED
    STOCK AND OUR TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES — COULD
    DECLINE, PERHAPS SIGNIFICANTLY, AND YOU COULD LOSE ALL OR
    PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Risks
    Related To Our Business


 



    Disruptions
    in financial markets have affected and may continue to affect
    KeyCorp. Management’s actions may be unable to mitigate the
    extreme external factors presenting market risk.


 


    The capital and credit markets, including the fixed income
    markets, have been experiencing extreme volatility and
    disruption since July 2007. During the third and fourth quarters
    of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented
    levels. Uncertainties in these markets present significant
    challenges, particularly for the financial services industry. As
    a financial services company, our operations and financial
    condition are significantly affected by general economic and
    market conditions. For example, during 2008, the continued
    disruptions in the financial markets caused markdowns
    and/or
    losses by financial institutions from trading, hedging and other
    market activities. We were similarly affected. For example, we
    recorded an after-tax, noncash charge of $420 million
    during the fourth quarter of 2008 due to goodwill impairment
    resulting from a decline in the fair value of our National
    Banking unit, reflecting the extreme weakness in financial
    markets. In addition, during 2008, we increased our provision
    for loan losses in response to the deterioration in our loan
    portfolios resulting from the economic decline. In an effort to
    reduce the potential effects of any prolonged market disruption,
    management has implemented certain strategic decisions,
    including securing additional outside sources of funding for
    certain of our businesses, divesting
    and/or
    ceasing to conduct certain of our noncore businesses and closely
    managing growth and investment opportunities. It is difficult to
    predict how long these challenging economic conditions will
    exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will
    ultimately be affected, and whether management’s actions
    will effectively mitigate these extreme external factors.
    Furthermore, the models that Key uses to assess the
    creditworthiness of customers and to estimate losses inherent in
    its credit exposure may become less predictive due to
    fundamental changes in the U.S. economy. Accordingly, these
    factors could have a Material Adverse Effect on Key. Additional
    information regarding disruptions in financial markets is
    included in the sections captioned
    “Introduction — Economic Overview” and
    “Highlights of Key’s 2008 Performance —
    Financial performance” beginning on pages 18 and 23,
    respectively, of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s
    2008 Annual Report to Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).
    Additional information regarding certain strategic decisions
    management has implemented is included in the section captioned
    “Highlights of Key’s 2008 Performance —
    Strategic developments” on page 28 of the Financial Review
    section of KeyCorp’s 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 


    Additional information regarding market risk is included in the
    section captioned “Risk Management — Market risk
    management” beginning on page 54 of the Financial Review
    section of KeyCorp’s 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We are
    subject to interest rate risk.


 


    Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net
    interest income. Net interest income is the difference between
    interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans
    and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing
    liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates
    are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our
    control, including general economic conditions, the competitive
    environment within our markets, consumer preferences for
    specific loan and deposit products and policies of various
    governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the
    Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including
    changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount
    of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of
    interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes
    could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain
    deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and
    liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other
    borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we
    receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income,
    and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings
    could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on
    loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest
    we pay on deposits and other borrowings. Management uses
    simulation analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate
    exposure based on assumptions and judgments related to balance
    sheet growth, customer behavior, new products, new business
    volume, product pricing, the behavior of market interest rates
    and anticipated hedging activities. Simulation analysis involves
    a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of future
    risks and trends. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that
    actual results will not differ from those derived in simulation
    analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest
    rate changes, actual hedging strategies employed, changes in
    balance sheet composition, and the possible effects of
    unanticipated or unknown events.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    Although management believes it has implemented effective asset
    and liability management strategies, including simulation
    analysis and the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to
    reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our
    results of operations, any substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in market interest rates could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Key. Additional information regarding interest
    rate risk is included in the section captioned “Risk
    Management — Market risk management —
    Interest rate risk management” beginning on page 54 of the
    Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2008 Annual Report to
    Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We are
    subject to other market risk.


 


    Traditionally, market factors such as changes in foreign
    exchange rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the
    financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and even other
    unrelated financial companies have the potential to affect
    current market values of financial instruments. Recent market
    events have demonstrated this effect to an extreme. Since July
    2007, conditions in the fixed income markets, specifically the
    widening of credit spreads over benchmark U.S. Treasury
    securities for many fixed income securities, have caused
    significant volatility in the market values of loans,
    securities, and certain other financial instruments that are
    held in our trading or
    held-for-sale
    portfolios. Although management works to minimize the adverse
    affects when it is feasible to do so, those opportunities are
    not always available. It is possible that such volatility and
    adverse effects will continue over a prolonged period of time
    and/or
    worsen over time. As such, it is not possible for management to
    predict whether there will be further substantial changes in the
    financial markets that could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Key.


 


    Additional information regarding market risk is included in the
    section captioned “Risk Management — Market risk
    management — Trading portfolio risk management”
    on page 56 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s
    2008 Annual Report to Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    Declining
    asset prices could adversely affect Key.


 


    In recent months, the volatility and disruption that the capital
    and credit markets have experienced have reached extreme levels.
    The market dislocations have led to the failure of several
    substantial financial institutions, causing widespread
    liquidation of assets and further constraining credit markets.
    These asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged
    investors, including some hedge funds, have rapidly driven down
    prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset
    classes. Asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the
    valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our
    balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices
    we deem acceptable. This could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Key.


 



    There
    can be no assurance that the EESA, the American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Act of 2009, and other initiatives undertaken by
    the United States government to restore liquidity and stability
    to the U.S. financial system will help stabilize the U.S.
    financial system.


 


    The EESA was enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis
    affecting the banking system and financial markets and going
    concern threats to investment banks and other financial
    institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has
    authority to, among other things, purchase up to
    $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities,
    preferred equity and warrants, and certain other financial
    instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of
    stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial
    markets. Under its authority provided by EESA, the
    U.S. Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program, and
    the core provisions of the Financial Stability Plan. There can
    be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the EESA or the
    American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the
    “Recovery Bill”), or programs and other initiatives
    undertaken by the U.S. government will have on the
    financial markets; the extreme levels of volatility and limited
    credit availability currently being experienced may persist. The
    failure of the EESA or other government programs to help
    stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening
    of current financial market conditions could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Key. For additional information on programs
    and regulatory changes as a result of the EESA, including
    increase in deposit insurance limits and the TLGP and the
    Capital Purchase Program, see the sections captioned
    “Business — Supervision and Regulation” and
    “Federal Deposit Insurance Act” beginning on pages 3
    and 7, respectively, and the sections captioned
    “Introduction — Economic Overview —
    EESA and the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase
    Program” and “FDIC’s standard maximum deposit
    insurance limit increase and the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
    Program,” each of which begins on page 19 of the Financial
    Review Section of KeyCorp’s 2008 Annual Report to



    
    13



Table of Contents




    Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto). In the event that recent
    turmoil in the financial markets continues, we may experience a
    Material Adverse Effect on Key from (1) continued or
    accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets,
    (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding
    financial institutions generally and our transaction
    counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from
    further governmental action to stabilize or provide additional
    regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary
    conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently
    anticipated.


 



    The
    soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect
    Key.


 


    Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be
    adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of
    other financial institutions. Financial services to institutions
    are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty
    or other relationships. Key has exposure to many different
    industries and counterparties, and routinely executes
    transactions with counterparties in the financial industry,
    including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment
    banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients.
    During 2008, Key incurred $54 million of derivative-related
    charges as a result of market disruption caused by the failure
    of Lehman Brothers. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions
    about, one or more financial services institutions, or the
    financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide
    liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or
    by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to
    credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or
    client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the
    collateral held by Key cannot be realized upon or is liquidated
    at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
    derivative exposure due us. While we maintain processes aimed at
    minimizing such exposures, it is not possible to anticipate all
    of these risks and it is not feasible to mitigate these risks
    completely. Accordingly, there is no assurance that losses from
    such risks would not have a Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 



    We are
    subject to credit risk.


 


    There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading
    activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact
    of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic
    conditions in the markets where we operate. Increases in
    interest rates
    and/or
    further weakening of economic conditions could adversely impact
    the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value
    of the collateral securing these loans. We also are subject to
    various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities.
    Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could
    subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in
    the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, approximately 72% of our loan
    portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural
    loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial
    mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. These
    types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate
    loans and consumer loans. We closely monitor and manage risk
    concentrations and utilize various portfolio management
    practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible
    to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of
    commercial loans with relatively large balances. The
    deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a
    significant increase in nonperforming loans, and an increase in
    nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from
    these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an
    increase in loan charge-offs, any of which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Key. Additional information regarding credit
    risk is included in the section captioned “Risk
    Management — Credit risk management” beginning on
    page 60 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2008
    Annual Report to Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We are
    subject to liquidity risk.


 


    Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the
    level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to
    accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet
    contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business
    transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and
    without adverse consequences. Although management has
    implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse
    sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as
    unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both
    normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected
    and/or
    prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Key. Certain credit markets that we
    participate in and rely upon as sources of funding have been



    
    14



Table of Contents




    significantly disrupted and highly volatile since the third
    quarter of 2007. These conditions increase our liquidity risk
    exposure. Part of our strategy to reduce liquidity risk involves
    promoting customer deposit growth, exiting certain noncore
    lending businesses, utilizing the Federal Reserve’s Term
    Auction Facility, and the FDIC’s TLGP. If market disruption
    or other factors reduce the cost effectiveness
    and/or the
    availability of supply in the credit markets for a prolonged
    period of time, management may expand the utilization of secured
    wholesale funding instruments, such as the Federal
    Reserve’s Term Auction Facility and the issuance of
    FDIC-guaranteed debt under the FDIC’s TLGP; or use other
    potential means of accessing funding and managing liquidity such
    as generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans,
    extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing
    deposits from other banks, and utilizing relationships with
    fixed income investors in a variety of markets —
    domestic, European and Canadian — as well as increased
    management of loan growth and investment opportunities and other
    management tools. However, there can be no assurance that these
    alternative means of funding will remain available, and it is
    unclear what impact, given current economic conditions,
    unavailability of such funding would have on Key. For example,
    in 2007 and 2008, Key was unable to securitize its student loan
    portfolio at cost-effective rates. Accordingly, a deep and
    prolonged disruption in the markets could have the effect of
    significantly restricting the accessibility of cost effective
    capital and funding, which could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on Key. Additional information regarding liquidity risk is
    included in the section captioned “Risk
    Management — Liquidity risk management” beginning
    on page 56 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s
    2008 Annual Report to Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    Various
    factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to
    increase.


 


    We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve
    established through a provision for loan losses charged to
    expense, that represents management’s estimate of losses
    within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the
    judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated
    loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level
    of the allowance reflects management’s continuing
    evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks;
    loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present
    economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unexpected
    losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination
    of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses
    inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that
    we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future
    trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in
    economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information
    regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem
    loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control,
    may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In
    addition, bank regulatory agencies and our independent auditors
    periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may
    require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the
    recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that
    can differ somewhat from those of our own management. In
    addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance
    for loan losses (i.e., if the loan allowance is
    inadequate), we will need additional loan loss provisions to
    increase the allowance for loan losses. Additional provisions to
    increase the allowance for loan losses, should they become
    necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and capital
    and may have a Material Adverse Effect on Key. Additional
    information regarding the allowance for loan losses is included
    in the section captioned “Risk Management —
    Credit risk management — Allowance for loan
    losses” beginning on page 61 of the Financial Review
    section of KeyCorp’s 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders
    (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We are
    subject to operational risk.


 


    We, like all businesses, are subject to operational risk, which
    represents the risk of loss resulting from human error,
    inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and
    external events. Operational risk also encompasses compliance
    (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or
    noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed
    practices or ethical standards. Although we seek to mitigate
    operational risk through a system of internal controls,
    resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of
    explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our
    reputation or foregone opportunities, any and all of which could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Key. Additional information
    regarding operational risk is included in the section captioned
    “Risk Management — Operational risk
    management” beginning on page 67 of the Financial
    Review section of KeyCorp’s 2008 Annual Report to
    Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Our
    profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in
    the geographic regions in which we operate.


 


    Our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the
    markets in which we operate. Although we are somewhat
    geographically diversified, we still do have concentrations of
    loans and other business activities in geographic areas where
    our branches are principally located — the Northwest,
    the Rocky Mountains, the Great Lakes and the Northeast. We also
    have potential exposure to geographic areas outside of our
    branch footprint. For example, the residential properties
    segment of our commercial real estate construction portfolio has
    been adversely affected by the downturn in the U.S. housing
    market because of deteriorating market conditions, principally
    in Florida and southern California, and the significant and
    steady increase in the level of nonperforming loans since the
    second half of 2007. As a result, management recently increased
    the provision for loan losses. The regional economic conditions
    in areas in which we conduct our business have an impact on the
    demand for our products and services as well as the ability of
    our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral
    securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources.
    A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by
    inflation, recession, an act of terrorism, outbreak of
    hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences,
    unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors,
    such as severe declines in the value of homes and other real
    estate, could also impact these regional economies and, in turn,
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Key. Additional information on
    the risks of the economic conditions of the geographic regions
    in which we operate is included in the section captioned
    “Introduction — Economic overview” beginning
    on page 18 and “Figure 1. Community Banking Geographic
    Diversity” beginning on page 20, which are part of the
    Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s 2008 Annual Report to
    Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and market
    areas.


 


    We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations
    from a variety of different competitors, many of which are
    larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors
    primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as
    smaller community banks within the various markets in which we
    operate. However, we also face competition from many other types
    of financial institutions, including, without limitation,
    savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies,
    finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment
    management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and
    other local, regional and national financial services firms. In
    recent years, while the breadth of the institutions that we
    compete with has increased, competition has intensified as a
    result of consolidation efforts. We expect this trend to
    continue. During 2008, competition intensified as the challenges
    of the liquidity crisis and market disruption led to
    redistribution of deposits and certain banking assets to
    stronger and larger financial institutions. The competitive
    landscape was also affected by the conversion of traditional
    investment banks to bank holding companies during the current
    liquidity crisis due to the access it provides to
    government-sponsored sources of liquidity. The financial
    services industry could become even more competitive as a result
    of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological changes
    and continued consolidation. Also, technology has lowered
    barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer
    products and services traditionally provided by banks.


 


    Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of
    factors, including, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and
    initiatives;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term
    customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical
    standards and safe, sound assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to expand our market position;




 



     
        • 

    
    the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services
    offered to meet customer needs and demands;




 



     
        • 

    
    the rate at which we introduce new products and services
    relative to our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to attract and retain talented executives and
    relationship managers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    industry and general economic trends.






    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly
    weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect
    our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 



    We are
    subject to extensive government regulation and
    supervision.


 


    We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and
    supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to
    protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds
    and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These
    regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure,
    investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other
    things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually
    review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible
    changes. It is likely that there will be significant changes to
    the banking and financial institutions regulatory regime in
    light of the recent performance of and government intervention
    in the financial services industry. It is not possible to
    predict the impact of such changes on our results of operations.
    Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes
    in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations
    or policies;
    and/or
    continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices,
    requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional
    costs, limit the types of financial services and products that
    we may offer
    and/or
    increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial
    services and products, among other things. Failure to
    appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies
    (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent
    such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory
    agencies, civil money penalties
    and/or
    reputation damage, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Key. Additional information regarding supervision and regulation
    is included in the section captioned “Supervision and
    Regulation” in Item 1. Business, beginning on
    page 3 of this report.


 



    Our
    controls and procedures may fail or be
    circumvented.


 


    Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls,
    disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance
    policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well
    designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions
    and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that
    the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or
    circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to
    comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 



    We
    rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our
    funds.


 


    KeyCorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its
    subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its cash flow
    from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the
    principal source of funds to pay dividends on our Common Shares
    and interest and principal on our debt. Various laws and
    regulations limit the amount of dividends that KeyBank
    (KeyCorp’s largest subsidiary) and certain nonbank
    subsidiaries may pay to KeyCorp. During 2008, KeyBank did not
    pay any dividends to KeyCorp; nonbank subsidiaries paid KeyCorp
    $113,234 in dividends. As of the close of business on
    December 31, 2008, KeyBank would not have been permitted to
    pay dividends to KeyCorp without prior regulatory approval since
    the bank had a net loss of $1.161 billion for 2008.


 


    Also, KeyCorp’s right to participate in a distribution of
    assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is
    subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.
    In the event KeyBank is unable to pay dividends to KeyCorp, we
    may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay
    dividends on our Common Shares. The inability to receive
    dividends from KeyBank could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Key. Additional information regarding dividend restrictions is
    included in the section captioned “Supervision and
    Regulation — Dividend Restrictions” in
    Item 1. Business, beginning on page 4 of this report,
    and in Note 5 (“Restrictions on Cash, Dividends and
    Lending Activities”) and Note 14
    (“Shareholders’ Equity”) under the heading
    “Preferred Stock — Series B” on page 91 and
    beginning on page 102, respectively, of the Financial
    Review section of KeyCorp’s 2008 Annual Report to
    Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    Our
    earnings may be affected by changes in accounting principles and
    in tax laws.


 


    Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Key. Although these
    changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they
    could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain
    performance measures.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    We, like all businesses, are subject to tax laws, rules and
    regulations. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations,
    including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax
    laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or
    other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional
    costs, among other things. Failure to appropriately comply with
    tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by
    regulatory agencies, civil money penalties
    and/or
    reputation damage, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Key. Additional information concerning our income tax risks is
    included in Note 17 (“Income Taxes”) beginning on
    page 110 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp’s
    2008 Annual Report to Shareholders (Exhibit 13 hereto).


 



    Potential
    acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder
    value.


 


    Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various
    risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the
    target company;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and
    personnel of the target company;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential disruption to our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    potential diversion of our management’s time and attention;




 



     
        • 

    
    the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target
    company;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the
    target company;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets,
    liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and




 



     
        • 

    
    potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may
    affect the target company.





 


    We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and
    conduct due diligence activities related to possible
    transactions with other financial institutions and financial
    services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition
    discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and
    future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity
    securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve
    the payment of a premium over book and market values, and,
    therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net
    income per common share may occur in connection with any future
    transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected
    revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or
    product presence,
    and/or other
    projected benefits from an acquisition could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Key.


 



    We may
    not be able to attract and retain skilled people.


 


    Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract
    and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most
    activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may
    not be able to retain or hire the people we want
    and/or need.
    In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must
    compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those
    levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest
    expense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain
    qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our
    competitive position, our performance, including our competitive
    position, could suffer, and, in turn, cause a Material Adverse
    Effect on Key. Although we maintain employment agreements with
    certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans
    aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected
    loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still
    occur, and such events may have a Material Adverse Effect on Key
    because of the loss of the employee’s skills, knowledge of
    our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of
    promptly finding qualified replacement personnel for our
    talented executives
    and/or
    relationship managers.


 


    Pursuant to the standardized terms of the Capital Purchase
    Program, among other things, we agreed to institute certain
    restrictions on the compensation of certain senior executive
    management positions that could have an adverse effect on our
    ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior executives.
    Other restrictions may also be imposed under the Recovery Bill
    or other legislation or regulations. Key’s ability to
    attract
    and/or
    retain talented



    
    18



Table of Contents




    executives
    and/or
    relationship managers may be affected by these developments or
    any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions
    could result in a Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 



    Our
    information systems may experience an interruption or breach in
    security.


 


    We rely heavily on communications and information systems to
    conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in
    security of these systems could result in failures or
    disruptions in our customer relationship management, general
    ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies
    and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the
    possible failure, interruption or security breach of our
    information systems, there can be no assurance that any such
    failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if
    they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The
    occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of
    our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a
    loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory
    scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible
    financial liability, any of which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Key.


 



    We
    continually encounter technological change.


 


    The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid
    technological change with frequent introductions of new
    technology-driven products and services. The effective use of
    technology increases efficiency and enables financial
    institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our
    future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the
    needs of our customers by using technology to provide products
    and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to
    create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest
    competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in
    technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively
    implement new technology-driven products and services or be
    successful in marketing these products and services to our
    customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological
    change affecting the financial services industry could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 



    We are
    subject to claims and litigation.


 


    From time to time, customers
    and/or
    vendors may make claims and take legal action against us. We
    maintain reserves for certain claims when management deems it is
    appropriate to do so upon its assessment of the claims. Whether
    any particular claims and legal actions are founded or
    unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in
    our favor they may result in significant financial liability
    and/or
    adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products
    and services as well as impact customer demand for those
    products and services. We are also involved, from time to time,
    in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal
    and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies
    regarding our business, including, among other things,
    accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result
    in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions
    or other relief. The number of these investigations and
    proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many
    firms in the financial services industry. There have also been a
    number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct
    by employees in the financial services industry in recent years,
    and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is
    not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and
    the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may
    not be effective in all cases. Any financial liability for which
    we have not adequately maintained reserves,
    and/or any
    reputation damage from such claims and legal actions, could have
    a Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 



    Severe
    weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other
    external events could significantly impact our
    business.


 


    Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and
    other adverse external events could have a significant impact on
    our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the
    stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers
    to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral
    securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in
    loss of revenue
    and/or cause
    us to incur additional expenses. Although management has
    established disaster recovery plans and procedures, the
    occurrence of any such event could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Key.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    Risks
    Associated With Our Common Shares


 



    Our
    issuance of securities to the U.S. Treasury may limit Key’s
    ability to return capital to its shareholders and is dilutive to
    our Common Shares. If we are unable to redeem such preferred
    shares, the dividend rate increases substantially after five
    years.


 


    In connection with our sale of $2.5 billion of the
    Series B Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury in
    conjunction with its Capital Purchase Program, we also issued a
    Warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our Common Shares at an
    exercise price of $10.64. The number of shares was determined
    based upon the requirements of the Capital Purchase Program, and
    was calculated based on the average market price of our Common
    Shares for the 20 trading days preceding approval of our
    issuance (which was also the basis for the exercise price of
    $10.64). The terms of the transaction with the
    U.S. Treasury include limitations on our ability to pay
    dividends and repurchase our Common Shares. For three years
    after the issuance or until the U.S. Treasury no longer
    holds any Series B Preferred Stock, we will not be able to
    increase our dividends above the level of our quarterly dividend
    declared during the third quarter of 2008 ($0.1875 per common
    share on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our Common
    Shares or preferred stock without, among other things,
    U.S. Treasury approval or the availability of certain
    limited exceptions, e.g., purchases in connection with
    our benefit plans. Furthermore, as long as the Series B
    Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding,
    dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to
    certain equity securities, including our Common Shares, are
    prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on
    such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions.
    These restrictions combined with the dilutive impact of the
    Warrant may have an adverse effect on the market price of our
    Common Shares, and, as a result, they could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Key.


 


    Unless we are able to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock
    during the first five years, the dividend payments on this
    capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5%
    ($125 million annually) to 9% ($225 million annually).
    Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in
    dividends could significantly impact our liquidity, and as a
    result, have a Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 



    KeyCorp
    is required to conduct stress tests pursuant to the U.S.
    Treasury’s Capital Assistance Program, and could be
    required to raise additional capital that would be dilutive to
    our Common Shares and may limit our ability to return capital to
    our shareholders.


 


    On February 25, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced
    preliminary details of the Capital Assistance Program (the
    “CAP”) component of its Financial Stability Plan. The
    CAP is intended to ensure the continued ability of
    U.S. financial institutions to lend to creditworthy
    borrowers in the event of a weaker than expected economic
    environment and larger than expected potential losses. There are
    two components of CAP: (1) a supervisory exercise that
    involves a forward-looking capital assessment (the “Stress
    Test”) to determine whether any of the major
    U.S. banking organizations, including Key, need to raise
    additional capital, and (2) access to qualifying financial
    institutions to mandatory convertible preferred equity intended
    to serve as a bridge to private capital in the future.


 


    Participation in CAP is mandatory for all bank holding companies
    with assets in excess of $100 billion, like KeyCorp. Under
    the CAP, institutions are required to conduct a Stress Test
    under assumptions provided by the U.S. government.
    Following the Stress Test, should the U.S. Treasury and
    Key’s banking regulators determine that additional capital
    is necessary Key will have a six month window to raise that
    capital privately or to access the capital made available by the
    U.S. Treasury under the CAP. Should Key need to issue
    additional equity capital, it would be dilutive to our Common
    Shares and may limit our ability to return capital to our
    shareholders. These factors may have a Material Adverse Effect
    on Key.


 


    To view the CAP term sheet, including a summary of the terms of
    the mandatory convertible preferred stock and the warrant to
    purchase common shares that the U.S. Treasury receives in
    connection with any CAP issuance see www.financialstability.gov.



    
    20



Table of Contents





    Our
    share price can be volatile.


 


    Share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to
    resell your Common Shares when you want and at prices you find
    attractive. Our share price can fluctuate significantly in
    response to a variety of factors including, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    recommendations by securities analysts;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating and stock price performance of other companies that
    investors deem comparable to our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in
    the financial services industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    perceptions of us
    and/or our
    competitors in the marketplace;




 



     
        • 

    
    new technology used, or services offered, by competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic
    partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into
    by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated
    benefits from acquisitions;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in governmental regulations;




 



     
        • 

    
    geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or
    military conflicts; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the occurrence or nonoccurrence, as appropriate, of any
    circumstance described in these Risk Factors.





 


    General market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors
    and general economic and political conditions and events, such
    as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or
    credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease
    regardless of operating results.


 



    An
    investment in our Common Shares is not an insured
    deposit.


 


    Our Common Shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not
    insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance
    fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our
    Common Shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in
    this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this
    report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the
    price of Common Shares in any company. As a result, if you
    acquire our Common Shares, you may lose some or all of your
    investment.


 



    Our
    articles of incorporation and regulations as well as certain
    banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect.


 


    Provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations,
    federal banking laws, including regulatory approval
    requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to
    acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial
    to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may
    inhibit a nonnegotiated merger or other business combination,
    which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our
    common shares.


 



    Risks
    Associated With Our Industry


 



    Difficult
    market conditions have adversely affected the financial services
    industry, business and results of operations.


 


    Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past eighteen
    months, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures,
    unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the
    credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant
    write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including
    government-sponsored entities, and commercial and investment
    banks. The resulting write-downs to assets of financial
    institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek
    additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger
    institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance
    or bankruptcy protection. It is not possible to predict how long
    these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets,
    products or other businesses will ultimately be



    
    21



Table of Contents




    affected, and whether management’s actions and government
    remediation efforts will effectively mitigate these factors.
    Accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of
    confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer
    confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and
    reduced business activity could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on Key. Furthermore, the continued deterioration in economic
    conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and
    nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a
    decrease in demand for our products and services, among other
    things, any of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 


    As a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions,
    Key may face the following risks, including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal
    standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in
    connection with the EESA, the Recovery Bill or other government
    initiatives. Compliance with such regulation will likely
    increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business
    opportunities.




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our
    customers if the models and approaches we use to select, manage,
    and underwrite customers become less predictive of future
    behaviors due to fundamental changes in economic conditions.




 



     
        • 

    
    The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit
    exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments,
    including forecasts of economic conditions and how these
    economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers
    to repay their loans. Such process may no longer be capable of
    accurate estimation and, in turn, may impact the reliability of
    our evaluation of our credit risk and exposure.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to
    engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms
    or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in
    the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating
    agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased intensity of competition in the financial services
    industry due to: (i) the recent mergers of certain
    financial institutions with stronger and larger financial
    institutions and the redistribution of FDIC-insured deposits and
    certain banking assets through the FDIC least-cost resolution
    process, and (ii) the conversion of certain investment
    banks to bank holding companies. We expect competition to
    intensify as a result of these changes to the competitive
    landscape. Should competition in the financial services industry
    continue to intensify, our ability to market products and
    services may be adversely affected.




 



     
        • 

    
    We will be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in
    the future because market developments have significantly
    depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of
    reserves to insured deposits. Key is also likely to be required
    to pay other fees necessary to support the EESA, the Recovery
    Bill and other government efforts.




 



     
        • 

    
    Key’s ability to attract talented executives
    and/or
    relationship managers may be hindered as a result of executive
    compensation limits under the Capital Purchase Program
    and/or
    regulations that may be issued by the U.S. Treasury or
    other regulators pursuant to its authority under the EESA or the
    Recovery Bill. Furthermore, Key may lose talented executives and
    relationship managers as a result of such limitations.





 



    Financial
    services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of
    information about customers and counterparties.


 


    In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
    transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on
    behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial
    statements, credit reports and other financial information. We
    may also rely on representations of those customers,
    counterparties or other third parties, such as independent
    auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that
    information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial
    statements, credit reports or other financial information could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Key.



    
    22



Table of Contents





    Consumers
    may decide not to use banks to complete their financial
    transactions.


 


    Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete
    through alternative methods financial transactions that
    historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now
    maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would
    have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also
    complete transactions such as paying bills
    and/or
    transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The
    process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as
    “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee
    income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related
    income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue
    streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Key.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B