Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry.The food and beverage industry is highly competitive and we face competition across all of our product offerings. We compete based on product innovation, price, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. We may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures. Competition and customer pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. We may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, advertising, and new product innovation to maintain or increase market share. These expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. If we are unable to compete effectively, our profitability, financial condition, and operating results may suffer.Maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image are essential to our business success.We have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. We seek to maintain, extend, and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. Increasing attention on the role of food and beverage marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of marketing practices. Existing or increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. Moreover, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our 9   customers’ confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations.  In addition, our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. We increasingly rely on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. The growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared.  Negative posts or comments about Kraft, our brands or our products on social or digital media, whether or not valid, could seriously damage our brands and reputation.  If we do not maintain, extend, and expand our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.We must leverage our brand value to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands.In nearly all of our product categories, we compete with well-branded products as well as retailer and other economy brands. Our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands change in favor of competitors’ products or if consumers perceive this type of change. If consumers prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. The consolidation of retail customers could adversely affect us. Retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors in our major markets, may consolidate, resulting in fewer customers for our business. Consolidation also produces larger retail customers that may seek to leverage their position to improve their profitability by demanding improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specifically tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. Retail consolidation and increasing retailer power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers’ business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material and adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases. Changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers, or in the trade terms required by these customers or suppliers, could reduce sales and profits. During 2013, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 43% of our net revenues, with our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., accounting for approximately 26% of our net revenues. There can be no assurance that all significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers may demand lower pricing and focus on developing their own brands. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales, or a change in the mix of products we sell, to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Our financial success depends on our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation. Consumer preferences for food and beverage products change continually. Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences. If we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. We must distinguish between short-term fads, mid-term trends, and long-term changes in consumer preferences. If we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new 10   and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. In addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. If we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. We strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. Continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, achieving growth depends on our successful development, introduction, and marketing of innovative new products and line extensions. Successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to obtain, protect and maintain necessary intellectual property rights, and to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We must also be able to respond successfully to technological advances by and intellectual property rights of our competitors, and failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our financial results.We may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster growing and more profitable categories. The food and beverage industry’s overall growth is generally linked to population growth. Our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories. Because our operations are concentrated in North America, where growth in the food and beverage industry has been limited, our success also depends in part on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories. Our future results will also depend on our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. Our failure to drive revenue growth, limit market share decreases in our key product categories or develop innovative products for new and existing categories could materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition, and operating results. Commodity, energy, and other input prices are volatile and may rise significantly. We purchase large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, coffee beans, meat products, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, nuts, and sugar and other sweeteners. In addition, we use significant quantities of resins and cardboard to package our products and natural gas to operate our facilities. We are also exposed to changes in oil prices, which influence both our packaging and transportation costs. Prices for commodities, other supplies, and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, consumer, industrial or commodity investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, alternative energy, and agricultural programs. Rising commodity, energy, and other input costs could materially and adversely affect our cost of operations, including the manufacture, transportation, and distribution of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases to the extent we deem appropriate, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw materials costs. For example, hedging our costs for one of our key commodities, dairy products, is difficult because dairy futures markets are not as developed as many other commodities futures markets. Continued volatility or sustained increases in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. Moreover, increases in the prices of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes. If we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.We rely on our management team and other key personnel. We depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. In addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel. Any 11   such loss or failure could adversely affect our profitability, financial condition, and operating results. Our geographic focus makes us particularly vulnerable to economic and other events and trends in North America. We operate primarily in North America and, therefore, are particularly susceptible to adverse regulations, economic climate, consumer trends, market fluctuations, including commodity price fluctuations or supply shortages for certain of our key ingredients, and other adverse events that are specific to the United States and Canada. The concentration of our businesses in North America could present challenges and may increase the likelihood that an adverse event in North America would materially and adversely affect our profitability, financial condition, and operating results. Changes in regulations could increase our costs. Our activities are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. Various federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations govern food and beverage production and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, tax, and environmental matters. Governing bodies regularly issue new regulations and changes to existing regulations. Our need to comply with new or revised regulations or their interpretation and application, including proposed requirements designed to enhance food safety or to regulate imported ingredients, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. As a large food and beverage company, we operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. Consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. Moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. Legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. Product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. Selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. We could decide to, or be required to, recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, adulteration, misbranding, tampering, or other deficiencies. A widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. Adverse attention about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation, discourage consumers from buying our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. We may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness, or death. In addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. A significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a significant product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. Moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit, or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. We have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, and information systems that support our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. Factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, like weather, raw material shortage, natural disasters, fire or explosion, terrorism, generalized labor unrest, or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers’ or co-manufacturers’ operations. These disruptions may require additional resources to restore our supply 12   chain or distribution network. If we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production, or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or unable to deliver, products to our customers and may also be unable to track orders, inventory, receivables, and payables. If that occurs, our customers’ confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. We may not successfully identify or complete strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures. From time to time, we may evaluate acquisition candidates, alliances or joint ventures that may strategically fit our business objectives or we may consider divesting businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or growth or profitability targets. These activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks including, but not limited to, diversion of management’s attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, inability to effectively and immediately implement control environment processes across a diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing or acquired customer and supplier business relationships, and potential disputes with buyers, sellers or partners. In addition, to the extent we undertake acquisitions, alliances or joint ventures or other developments outside our core geography or in new categories, we may face additional risks related to such developments. For example, risks related to foreign operations include compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, currency rate fluctuations, compliance with foreign regulations and laws, including tax laws, and exposure to politically and economically volatile developing markets. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Volatility of capital markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business. Changes in financial and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by rating organizations. A decrease in these ratings could limit our access to capital markets and increase our borrowing costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.Adverse changes in the capital markets or interest rates, differences or changes in actuarial assumptions from actual experience, and legislative or other regulatory actions could substantially increase our postemployment obligations and materially and adversely affect our profitability and operating results. We sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the United States and Canada, including defined benefit pension plans, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance, and other postemployment benefits. As of December 28, 2013, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $7.2 billion and these plans had assets of $7.0 billion. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, minimum funding requirements, and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost, and consequently volatility in our reported net income, and increase our future funding requirements.  Legislative and other governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans’ benefits obligation.We estimate the 2014 pension contributions will be approximately $200 million.  Volatile economic conditions increase the risk that we will be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost. A significant increase in our pension funding requirements could require us to reduce spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, advertising, and other similar activities or could negatively affect our ability to invest in our business or pay dividends on our common stock.  Volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices may cause volatility in our operating results and net earnings. We use commodity futures and options to partially hedge the price of certain input costs, including dairy products, coffee beans, meat products, wheat, corn products, soybean oils, sugar, and natural gas. For derivatives not designated as hedges, changes in the values of these derivatives are currently recorded in earnings, resulting in volatility in both gross profits and net earnings. We report these gains and losses in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of earnings to the extent we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process. We 13   report these gains and losses in the unallocated corporate items line in our segment operating results until we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process, at which time we reclassify the gains and losses to segment operating profit. We may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments.  We are significantly dependent on information technology. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. We also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers. These information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to hardware failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events or other factors. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of customers and sales, causing our product sales, financial condition, and operating results to be adversely affected and the reporting of our financial results to be delayed. In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers, or suppliers. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements, and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands, or products. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products.If the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we and our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liability. Mondelēz International, our former parent, received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and an opinion of tax counsel, each substantially to the effect that, subject to the accuracy of and compliance with certain representations, assumptions and covenants, (i) the Distribution will qualify for non-recognition of gain or loss to Mondelēz International and Mondelēz International’s shareholders pursuant to Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Code”), except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares, and (ii) certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the Distribution (“Internal Spin-Off Transactions”), qualify for non-recognition of gain or loss to us and Mondelēz International pursuant to Sections 355 and 368 of the Code (except, in the case of the private letter ruling, to the extent the IRS generally will not rule on certain transfers of intellectual property, which are covered solely by the opinion). Notwithstanding the receipt of the private letter ruling and the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine that the Distribution and Internal Spin-Off Transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or covenants on which the private letter ruling is based are untrue or have been violated. Furthermore, as part of the IRS’s policy, the IRS did not determine whether the Distribution and Internal Spin-Off Transactions satisfy certain conditions that are necessary to qualify for non-recognition treatment. Rather, the private letter ruling is based on representations by us and Mondelēz International that these conditions have been satisfied. The opinion of tax counsel addressed the satisfaction of these conditions. Similarly, the IRS 14   generally will not rule on contributions of intellectual property that do not satisfy certain criteria. As a result, the private letter ruling does not address whether transfers of certain intellectual property included in the Internal Spin-Off Transactions qualify for non-recognition treatment. Rather, the opinion of tax counsel addressed the qualification.The opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the IRS nor the courts, and there is no assurance that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. In addition, the opinion of tax counsel relied on certain representations and covenants delivered by us and Mondelēz International. If the IRS ultimately determines that the Distribution and/or the Internal Spin-Off Transactions are taxable, we and Mondelēz International could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Generally, taxes resulting from the failure of the Spin-Off to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be imposed on Mondelēz International or Mondelēz International’s shareholders and, under the Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement we entered into in connection with the Spin-Off, Mondelēz International is generally obligated to indemnify us against such taxes. However, under the Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement, we could be required, under certain circumstances, to indemnify Mondelēz International and its affiliates against all tax-related liabilities caused by those failures, to the extent those liabilities result from an action we or our affiliates take or from any breach of our or our affiliates’ representations, covenants or obligations under the Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement, or any other agreement we entered into in connection with the Spin-Off. If the Canadian aspects of the Internal Spin-Off Transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-deferred treatment for Canadian federal and provincial income tax purposes, then our Canadian subsidiaries could be subject to significant tax liability. The Internal Spin-Off Transactions included steps to separate the assets and liabilities in Canada held in connection with Mondelēz International’s global snacks business from the assets and liabilities in Canada held in connection with our North American grocery business. Our Canadian subsidiary received an advance income tax ruling from the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”) to the effect that, subject to the accuracy of and compliance with certain representations, assumptions, and covenants and based on the current provisions of the Canadian Tax Act, such separation is treated for purposes of the Canadian Tax Act as resulting in a “butterfly” reorganization with no material Canadian federal income tax payable by our Canadian subsidiary, Mondelēz International’s Canadian subsidiary or their respective shareholders. Notwithstanding the receipt of the advance income tax ruling, the CRA could determine that the separation should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or covenants on which the advance income tax ruling is based are untrue or have been violated. If the CRA ultimately were to determine that the separation is taxable, our and/or Mondelēz International’s Canadian subsidiaries could incur significant Canadian federal and provincial income tax liabilities, and we are generally obligated to indemnify Mondelēz International and its affiliates against such Canadian federal and provincial income taxes under the Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement.We have agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the non-recognition treatment of the transactions, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. Even if the Distribution otherwise qualifies for non-recognition of gain or loss under Section 355 of the Code, it may be taxable to Mondelēz International, but not Mondelēz International’s shareholders, under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more (by vote or value) of our common stock or Mondelēz International’s common stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of our or Mondelēz International’s common stock within two years before or after the Distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Mondelēz International may be able to rebut that presumption based on either applicable facts and circumstances or a “safe harbor” described in the tax regulations. As a consequence, we agreed in the Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement to covenants and indemnity obligations that address compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code. These covenants and indemnity obligations may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business, and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that you may consider favorable. Similarly, even if the Canadian aspects of the Internal Spin-Off Transactions otherwise qualify for tax-deferred treatment in Canada under the butterfly reorganization provisions of the Canadian Tax Act, this tax-deferred treatment may be lost upon the occurrence of certain events after the Spin-Off. These would include an acquisition of control of our Canadian subsidiary (which may occur upon an acquisition of control of us) that occurs as part of 15   (or in some cases in contemplation of) a series of transactions or events that includes the butterfly reorganization. These post-butterfly transaction restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business, and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that you may consider favorable. Our indebtedness levels could impact our business. As of December 28, 2013, we had total debt of approximately $10 billion. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations, financings, or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not generate sufficient funds to service our debt and meet our business needs, such as funding working capital or the expansion of our operations. If we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to take disadvantageous actions, including reducing spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, advertising and product innovation, reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, selling assets, or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. The lenders who hold our debt could also accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt. Our indebtedness could also impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, especially if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward. In addition, our leverage could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors that could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions and secure additional financing for their operations. Our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the food and beverage industry could be impaired, making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions, in our industry, or in our business.Item 1B