.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document.  Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe are dependent on cash distributions received from KMP and EPB.     For 2012, distributions from KMP and EPB represented approximately 81% of the sum of total cash generated by (i) distributions payable to us by our MLPs (on a declared basis) and (ii) distributable cash generated by assets we own and our share of cash generated by our joint venture investments. A decline in KMP’s and/or EPB’s revenues or increases in its general and administrative expenses, principal and interest payments under existing and future debt instruments, expenditures for taxes, working capital requirements or other cash needs will limit the amount of cash KMP and EPB can distribute to us, which would reduce the amount of cash available for dividends to our stockholders, which could be material.New regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our income and operations.  Our pipelines and storage facilities are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability.  Regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and 36gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses.Should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.  Furthermore, new laws or regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources.  For example, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriation Act of 2007 required the issuance of regulations establishing risk-based performance standards for the security of chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities that are deemed to present “high levels of security risk.” New laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties-(c)  Narrative Description of Business-Regulation.”The FERC, the CPUC or the NEB may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us.  In addition, the FERC, the CPUC, the NEB or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us.  The profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers.  To the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the FERC, the CPUC or the NEB to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results can be negatively impacted.  Our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint.  Regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations.  Some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates.  Further, the FERC may initiate investigations to determine whether some interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers.  We may face challenges, similar to those described in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report, to the rates we charge on KMP’s, EPB’s and our other pipelines.  Any successful challenge could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. Energy commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to natural gas transmission and storage activities and refined petroleum products and carbon dioxide transportation activities-such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems-that could result in substantial financial losses.  In addition, these risks may result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses.  For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater.  Incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and earnings while the affected asset is temporarily out of service.  In addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. Primarily, through our regulated pipeline subsidiaries, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity.  There are, for example, federal guidelines for the U.S. DOT and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication.  The ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict.  The majority of the compliance costs are pipeline integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary.  Changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline’s integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in High Consequence Areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs.  We plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the U.S. DOT rules.  The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated 37capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines.Further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety.  Such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals.  Liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Clean Water Act or analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas.  Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage.  Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us.Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.  For example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines or our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures.  The resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our level of earnings and cash flows.  In addition, emission controls required under the Federal Clean Air Act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities.We own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities.  While we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors’ wastes have been taken for disposal.  In addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances was not under our control.  These properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the U.S. such as CERCLA, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct.  Under the regulatory schemes of the various Canadian provinces, such as British Columbia’s Environmental Management Act, Canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors.  Under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators.  Imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position.In addition, our oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control.  These laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation.  Specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities in restricted areas, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes.  In addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities.Further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, 38financial position, results of operations and prospects. For more information about climate change regulation, see Items 1 and 2 “Business Properties-(c) Narrative Description of Business-Environmental Matters-Climate Change.”Climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us.Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases.  The U.S. EPA began regulating the greenhouse gas emissions in 2011, requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010 from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated natural gas liquids, and the production of naturally occurring carbon dioxide, like our McElmo Dome carbon dioxide field, even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere.Because our operations, including our compressor stations and natural gas processing plants in our Natural Gas Pipelines segment, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and carbon dioxide, such regulation could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities and require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program.  We are not able at this time to estimate such increased costs; however, they could be significant.  Recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC.  Any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  For more information about climate change regulation, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties-(c) Narrative Description of Business-Environmental Matters-Climate Change.Increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact KMP’s and EPB’s revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on their natural gas pipelines. The natural gas industry is increasingly relying on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane.  The extraction of natural gas from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing.  Hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells.  Recently, there have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing.  Adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on our or our joint ventures’ natural gas pipelines, several of which gather gas from areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent.We may face competition from other pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. Any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers natural gas, crude oil, or petroleum products into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors.  To the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to re-contract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired.  We also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems.  Several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us.Cost overruns and delays on our expansion and new build projects could adversely affect our business.  KMP, EPB and our other pipelines regularly expand their assets and construct new build projects.  They also conduct what are referred to as “open seasons” to evaluate the potential customer interest for new construction projects.  A variety of factors outside of their control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as performance by third-party contractors, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction.  Significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows. 39We must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which our pipelines are constructed, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use.  We obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on other owners’ land for a period of time.  If we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be negatively affected.  In addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements.Whether KMP, EPB or our other pipelines have the power of eminent domain for their pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline-petroleum liquids, natural gas or carbon dioxide-and the laws of the particular state.  Our interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority.  In either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court.  Our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our subsidiaries’ business if they were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which pipelines are located. KMP’s and EPB’s acquisition strategies and expansion programs require access to new capital.  Limitations on their access to capital would impair our ability to grow.  Consistent with the terms of KMP’s and EPB’s partnership agreements, KMP and EPB distribute most of the cash generated by their operations.  As a result, they have relied on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund acquisition and growth capital expenditures.  However, to the extent our limited partnerships are unable to continue to finance growth externally; their cash distribution policy will significantly impair their ability to grow.  KMP and/or EPB may need new capital to finance these activities.  Limitations on access to capital, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, will impair their ability to execute this strategy.  KMP’s and EPB’s growth strategies may cause difficulties integrating and constructing new operations and they may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from any future acquisitions.  Part of KMP’s and EPB’s business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses, expanding existing assets and constructing new facilities.  If they do not successfully integrate acquisitions, expansions or newly constructed facilities, anticipated operating advantages and cost savings may not occur.  The integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in its size after an acquisition, expansion or completed construction project; (ii) the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employees; and (v) potential adverse effects on operating results.Our limited partnerships may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately.  Successful integration of each acquisition, expansion or construction project will depend upon their ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs.  Because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, cost savings and other size-related benefits they expected may not be achieved, which could harm their financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $32 billion of consolidated debt (including KMP and EPB, but excluding debt fair value adjustments).  This level of debt could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iii) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (iv) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  If our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, or any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions which may include reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital.  We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.  For more information about our debt, see Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.40Our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $11 billion (35%) of our approximately $32 billion consolidated debt (including KMP and EPB, but excluding debt fair value adjustment) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term debt of variable rate debt obligations or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps.  Should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase and our earnings could be adversely affected.  For more information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk.”  Our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs.  The instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us.  The agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions.  The instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions.  Our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted.There is the potential for a change of control of the general partners of KMP and EPB if we default on debt.We own all of the common equity of the general partners of KMP and EPB.  If we default on debt, then the lenders under such debt, in exercising their rights as lenders, could acquire control of the general partners of KMP and EPB through their control of us.  A change of control of the general partners of KMP and EPB could materially adversely affect the distributions we receive from KMP and EPB, which could have a material adverse impact on us or our cash available for dividends to our stockholders.Our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit.Adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, limiting our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities and reducing our cash flows. Our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions.  Also, continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, any reduction in our credit ratings could negatively impact the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, which could increase their cost of capital and negatively affect their business and operating results. Although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries' debt instruments, as well as the market value of KMP's and EPB's common units.Distressed financial conditions of our customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide.  Some of our customers may experience severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness.  We cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows.  Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities.  In addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Terrorist attacks or “cyber security” events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business.The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets and systems might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or “cyber security” events.  These potential targets might include our pipeline systems or 41operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen.  The occurrence of one of these events could cause a substantial decrease in revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation or litigation and or inaccurate information reported from our operations.There is no assurance that adequate sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future.  These developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our pipeline business is dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities transported by our pipelines. Our pipelines depend on production of natural gas, oil and other products in the areas served by our pipelines.  Without reserve additions, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted and production costs may rise.  Producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as the Alberta Oil sands.  Producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our gas plants and pipelines may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput.  Commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. Changes in the business environment, such as a decline in crude oil or natural gas prices, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply from oil and natural gas producing areas.  In addition, with respect to the CO2-KMP business segment, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil and natural gas.  Each of these factors impact our customers shipping through our pipelines, which in turn could impact the prospects of new transportation contracts or renewals of existing contracts. Throughput on KMP’s and/or EPB’s pipelines also may decline as a result of changes in business conditions.  Over the long term, business will depend, in part, on the level of demand for oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products in the geographic areas in which deliveries are made by pipelines and the ability and willingness of shippers having access or rights to utilize the pipelines to supply such demand.The implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products, increase our costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  We cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products.The future success of KMP’s oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon its ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted.  Without successful development activities, the reserves and revenues of the oil and gas producing assets within the CO2-KMP business segment will decline.  KMP may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future.  Additionally, if KMP does not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, its hedged volumes, it may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions.KMP’s development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. The business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome.  Acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative.  It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well.  Furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment.  A variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable.  A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well.  In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances.42The volatility of natural gas and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on the CO2 -KMP segment.The revenues, profitability and future growth of the CO2-KMP business segment and the carrying value of its oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas properties depend to a large degree on prevailing oil and gas prices.  For 2013, KMP estimates that every $1 change in the average West Texas Intermediate crude oil price per barrel would impact the CO2-KMP segment’s cash flows by approximately $6 million.  Prices for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond KMP’s control.  These factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the U.S.; (ii) the condition of the U.S. economy; (iii) the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources.A sharp decline in the prices of oil, natural gas liquids or natural gas would result in a commensurate reduction in KMP’s revenues, income and cash flows from the production of oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of KMP’s proved reserves.  In the event prices fall substantially, KMP may not be able to realize a profit from its production and would operate at a loss.  In recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts.  Such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis.  These periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas.  The excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand.  These fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process.  Our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. We engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas.  These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received.  In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas.The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes.  Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements.  In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely mitigate our exposure to commodity prices.  Our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge.  The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, referred to as the CFTC, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market.  While the CFTC’s rule promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act has been vacated by a U.S. District Court and is on appeal, the CFTC has taken the position that the act also requires the CFTC to institute broad new aggregate position limits for over-the-counter swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges.  As the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the Dodd-Frank Act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided and also comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivatives activities that are not exchange traded, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time.  The Dodd-Frank Act also requires many counterparties to our derivatives instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us.  The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could (i) significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduce the liquidity of energy related derivatives.43If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.  Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors.  Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas.  Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Kinder Morgan Canada-KMP segment is subject to U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. We are a U.S. dollar reporting company.  As a result of the operations of the Kinder Morgan Canada-KMP business segment, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars.  Fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the U.S. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders’ equity under applicable accounting rules.Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services.  Our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the U.S. and Canada.  Volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us.  In addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil and natural gas liquids will have a negative impact on the results of the CO2-KMP business segment.  If global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the U.S. or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters.  These natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our pipelines, terminals and other assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport through our pipelines.  Natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers.  In either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  KMP's and EPB's tax treatment depends on their status as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states.  If KMP and/or EPB were treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if they were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then cash available for distribution to their partners, including us, would be substantially reduced. We own the general partner interests in both KMP and EPB and approximately 11% and 41% of the limited partner interests of KMP and of EPB, respectively.  The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of our investment in KMP and EPB depends largely on their treatment as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Neither KMP nor EPB has requested nor plans to request a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter. Despite the fact that KMP and EPB are organized as limited partnerships under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for partnerships such as KMP or EPB to be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Although neither KMP nor EPB believes, based on its current operations, that it is or will be so treated, the IRS could disagree with the positions KMP or EPB takes or a change in KMP's or EPB's business (or a change in current law) could cause them to be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject them to taxation as an entity. If they were treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, they would pay U.S. federal income tax on taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income taxes at varying rates.  Distributions by KMP and EPB to their partners, including us, would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of their current and accumulated earnings and profits) and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to their partners, including us.  Because tax would be imposed on KMP and EPB as corporations, their after-tax cash 44available for distribution would be substantially reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the dividends we could pay and in the value of our common stock. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including KMP and EPB, or an investment in them may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time.  Moreover, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that could affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships.  We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted.  In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation.  Any state income taxes imposed upon KMP or EPB as entities would reduce their cash available to be distributed to us.  Any modification to the U.S. federal income or state tax laws, or interpretations thereof, may be applied retroactively and could negatively impact the value of our investment in KMP and EPB.KMP's and EPB's partnership agreements provide that if a law is enacted that subjects them to corporate taxation or otherwise subjects them to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amounts and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact.If KMP’s or EPB’s unitholders remove their respective general partner, we would lose our general partner interest in either KMP or EPB, including the right to incentive distributions, and the ability to manage them.We own the general partners of KMP and EPB and with respect to KMP, all of the voting shares of KMR, to which the general partner has delegated its rights and powers to control the business and affairs of KMP, subject to the approval of the general partner for certain actions.  KMP’s and EPB’s partnership agreements, however, give their respective unitholders the right to remove their general partner if (i) the holders of 66 2⁄3% of the respective partnership’s outstanding units (including the common units, Class B units and i-units, as applicable) voting as a single class vote for such removal; (ii) the holders of KMP’s and EPB’s outstanding units approve the election and succession of a new general partner by the same vote, respectively; and (iii) KMP and/ or EPB receives opinion of counsel that the removal and succession of the general partner would not result in the loss of the limited liability of any limited partner or its operating partnership subsidiaries or cause either KMP or EPB or its operating partnership subsidiaries to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If KMP’s or EPB’s unitholders removed their respective general partner, the general partner would lose its ability to manage KMP or EPB, and with respect to KMP, the delegation of authority to KMR by KMP’s general partner would terminate at the same time. The general partner would receive cash or common units in exchange for its general partner interest. While the cash or common units the general partner would receive are intended under the terms of KMP’s and EPB’s partnership agreements to fully compensate us, as the owner of the general partner, in the event such an exchange is required, the value of the investments we might make with the cash or the common units may not over time be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the related incentive distributions had the general partner retained its general partner interest.If in the future KMR and the general partner cease to manage and control KMP, with respect to KMP and EPB’s general partner ceases to manage and control EPB either limited partnership may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.If our subsidiaries, KMR and Kinder Morgan G.P., Inc., which is the general partner of KMP, cease to manage and control KMP, or, El Paso Pipeline GP, L.L.C. ceases to manage and control EPB, either or both KMP and EPB may be deemed to be investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  In that case, KMP and/or EPB would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify their organizational structure or contractual rights so as to fall outside the definition of an investment company.  Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and could adversely affect the price of our common stock.If we are unable to retain our executive officers, our growth may be hindered.Our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard D. Kinder, who is also one of our founders.  Along with the other members of our senior 45management, Mr. Kinder has been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy since 1997.  If we are not successful in retaining Mr. Kinder or our other executive officers or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.  We do not maintain key personnel insurance.Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common StockThe price of the common stock may be volatile, and holders of our common stock could lose a significant portion of their investments.The market price of the common stock could be volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased the common stock due to fluctuations in the market price of the common stock, including changes in price caused by factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects.Specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price for the common stock include: (i) changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding the common stock, the common units of KMP and EPB, other companies comparable to us or KMP and EPB or companies in the industries we serve; (ii) actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; (iii) reaction to our public announcements; (iv) strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; (v) the recruitment or departure of key personnel; (vi) new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations; (vii) changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (viii) adverse conditions in the financial markets or general U.S. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; (ix) sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or significant stockholders; and (x) the extent of analysts’ interest in following our company. Non-U.S. holders of our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to gain on the disposition of our common stock.If we are or have been a ‘’U.S. real property holding corporation’’ within the meaning of the Code at any time within the shorter of (i) the five-year period preceding a disposition of our common stock by a non-U.S. holder, or (ii) such holder’s holding period for such common stock, and assuming our common stock is ‘’regularly traded,’’ as defined by applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, on an established securities market, the non-U.S. holder may be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to gain on such disposition if it held more than 5% of our common stock during the shorter of periods (i) and (ii) above.  We believe we are, or may become, a U.S. real property holding corporation.Risks Related to Our Dividend PolicyHolders of our common stock may not receive the anticipated level of dividends under our dividend policy or any dividends at all.Our dividend policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by a majority vote of our board of directors, including for general and administrative expenses, interest and cash taxes.  However, our board of directors, subject to the requirements of our bylaws and other governance documents, may amend, revoke or suspend our dividend policy at any time, and even while the current policy is in place, the actual amount of dividends on our capital stock will depend on many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity requirements, market opportunities, capital requirements of our subsidiaries, legal, regulatory and contractual constraints, tax laws and other factors.  Dividends other than as provided in our dividend policy require supermajority board approval while the Sponsor Investors maintain prescribed ownership thresholds. Over time, our capital and other cash needs may change significantly from our current needs, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the amount of any dividends we may pay in the future.  The terms of any future indebtedness we incur also may restrict us from paying cash dividends on our stock under certain circumstances.  A decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result if our board of directors establishes large reserves that reduce the amount of quarterly dividends paid or if we reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends.  This may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial.The general partners of KMP and EPB, with our consent but without the consent of our stockholders, may take steps to support KMP and EPB that have the effect of reducing cash we have or are entitled to receive, thereby reducing the cash we have available to pay dividends.46We utilize KMP and EPB as our vehicles for growth.  We have historically received a significant portion of our cash flows from incentive distributions on the general partner interest.  As the owner of the general partner of KMP, and now EPB, we may take steps we judge beneficial to KMP’s and EPB’s growth that in the short-run reduce the cash we receive and have available to pay dividends.  The board of directors of the general partner of KMP or EPB may determine to support a desirable acquisition that may not be immediately accretive to cash available for distribution per the respective Partnership unit.  For example, KMP’s general partner, with our consent, waived its incentive distributions from the second quarter of 2010 through 2011 on common units issued to finance a portion of KMP’s acquisition of the initial 50% interest in the KinderHawk joint venture and has agreed to waive its paid incentive distributions of $27 million and $4 million for 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, respectively, on common units issued to finance a portion of KMP’s subsequent acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the KinderHawk joint venture.  In addition, in connection with KMP’s proposed acquisition of Copano, KMP’s general partner has agreed to waive incentive distributions in 2013 in an amount dependent on the time of closing, $120 million in both 2014 and 2015, $110 million in 2016 and annual amounts thereafter decreasing by $5 million per year from this level.Our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities above the limited partnership level or impair our financial flexibility.If we pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities above the limited partnership level, meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements or fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn.  In addition, because of the dividends required under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business above the limited partnership level, including through acquisitions, increased capital spending or other increases of our expenditures, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing.  We cannot assure our stockholders that such financing will be available to us at all, or at an acceptable cost.  If we are unable to take timely advantage of growth opportunities, our future financial condition and competitive position may be harmed, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  If we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay dividends.All of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, and our cash flow and our ability to satisfy obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries.  In addition, our joint ventures and some of our subsidiaries, such as our limited partnerships, are not wholly owned by us.  When funds are distributed to us by such joint ventures and subsidiaries, funds also will be distributed to their other owners.Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and has no obligation to transfer funds to us.  A number of our subsidiaries are a party to credit facilities and are or may in the future be a party to other borrowing agreements that restrict the payment of dividends to us, and such subsidiaries are likely to continue to be subject to such restrictions and prohibitions for the foreseeable future.  In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions will depend on their respective operating results and may be subject to further restrictions under, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization.The board of directors of KMR, which is the delegate of KMP’s general partner, and EPB’s general partner have broad authority to establish cash reserves for the prudent conduct of their businesses.  The establishment of those reserves could result in smaller distributions to us and a corresponding reduction of our cash available for dividends and our anticipated dividend level.  Further, the calculation of KMP’s and EPB’s available cash for distribution is discretionary and subject to the approval of the board of directors of KMR or EPB’s general partner, respectively taking into consideration their constituent agreements.  Similarly, while the constituent agreements of NGPL provide that it is the intention of NGPL to make distributions of available cash, we own less than a majority of NGPL and do not control it.  The same is true for joint ventures in which our limited partnerships own an interest.The distributions we receive from KMP are largely attributable to the incentive distributions on our general partner interest.  The distributions we receive are not as large if KMP distributes cash from interim capital transactions rather than cash from operations, or if KMP’s general partner waives receipt of a portion of those incentive distributions.As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to receive cash through distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries in sufficient amounts to pay dividends on our common stock.  If we are unable to authorize the payment of dividends due to insufficient cash, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result.  This may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial.Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by Delaware law.47Under the DGCL, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of surplus, as calculated in accordance with the DGCL, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.  Our bylaws require the declaration and payment of dividends to comply with the DGCL.  If, as a result of these restrictions, we are unable to authorize payment of dividends, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result.  This may in turn result in losses by our stockholders.Risks Related to Conflicts of InterestKMP, EPB and their subsidiaries may compete with us.Neither of KMP, EPB or any of their subsidiaries or entities in which they own an interest is restricted from competing with us.  KMR manages KMP (subject to certain decisions requiring the approval of KMP’s general partner) and EPB’s general partner manages EPB, in what they consider to be the best interests of their respective limited partner interests.  KMP, EPB and their subsidiaries may acquire, invest in or construct assets that may be in direct competition with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.  Among other things, we and our limited partnerships have a policy that acquisition opportunities of businesses or operating assets will be pursued above the limited partnership level only if KMP and EPB elect not to pursue the opportunity.Many of our directors and officers also serve as directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including KMR and EPB, or entities in which we own an interest, such as NGPL, as a result of which conflicts of interest exist and will arise in the future.Many of our directors and officers are also directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries.   Any officer or director of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, who is also a director or officer of ours, in making decisions in such person’s capacity as our officer or director, is required to act in accordance with his or her fiduciary duties to us.  However, in making decisions in such person’s capacity as a director or officer of one of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries or such other entities, such person may make a decision that favors the interests of such subsidiary over our interests or the interests of our stockholders and may be to our detriment.  Further, the organizational documents of these entities may have provisions reducing or eliminating the duties of their officers or directors to those entities and their owners, including us.  In addition, our directors are not required to work full time on our business and affairs and may devote significant time to the affairs of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries.  There could be material competition for the time and effort of our directors who provide services to our non-wholly owned subsidiaries.Item 1B