 “Risk Factors.” The risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  We disclaim any obligation, other than as required by applicable law,  and described below under Items 1 and 2, “Business and Properties­—(a) General Development of Business—Recent Developments—2016 Outlook”, to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.PART IItems 1 and 2.  Business and Properties.We are the largest energy infrastructure company in North America.  We own an interest in or operate approximately 84,000 miles of pipelines and approximately 180 terminals (includes 15 terminals acquired in our February 2016 BP Products North America Inc. (BP) transaction).  For more information about the acquisition, see Note 3 “Acquisitions and Divestitures” to our consolidated financial statements. Our pipelines transport natural gas, refined petroleum products, crude oil, condensate, 6CO2 and other products, and our terminals transload and store petroleum products, ethanol and chemicals, and handle such products as coal, petroleum coke and steel.  We are also the leading producer and transporter of CO2, which is utilized for enhanced oil recovery projects in North America.  Our common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol “KMI.”(a) General Development of Business Organizational Structure   On November 26, 2014, we completed our acquisition, pursuant to three separate merger agreements, of all of the outstanding common units of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. and El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P. and all of the outstanding shares of Kinder Morgan Management, LLC that we did not already own.  The transactions, valued at approximately $77 billion, are referred to collectively as the “Merger Transactions.”As we controlled each of KMP, KMR and EPB before and continued to control each of them after the Merger Transactions, the changes in our ownership interest in each of KMP, KMR and EPB were accounted for as an equity transaction and no gain or loss was recognized in our consolidated statements of income related to the Merger Transactions. After closing the KMR Merger Transaction, KMR was merged with and into KMI.  Additionally, on January 1, 2015, EPB and its subsidiary, EPPOC merged with and into KMP.  As a result of such merger, all of the subsidiaries of EPB and EPPOC became wholly owned subsidiaries of KMP.  References to EPB refer to EPB for periods prior to its merger into KMP.Prior to the Merger Transactions, we owned an approximate 10% limited partner interest (including our interest in KMR) and the 2% general partner interest including incentive distribution rights in KMP, and an approximate 39% limited partner interest and the 2% general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in EPB.  Effective with the Merger Transactions, the incentive distribution rights held by the general partner of KMP were eliminated.Historically, most of our operating assets were owned and most of our investments were conducted by KMP and EPB.  The equity interests in KMP, EPB and KMR (which are all consolidated in our financial statements) owned by the public prior to the Merger Transactions are reflected within “Noncontrolling interests” in our accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity.  The earnings recorded by KMP, EPB and KMR that were attributed to the units and shares, respectively, held by the public prior to the Merger Transactions are reported as “Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests” in our accompanying consolidated statements of income.You should read the following in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto.  We have prepared our accompanying consolidated financial statements under GAAP and the rules and regulations of the SEC.  Our accounting records are maintained in U.S. dollars and all references to dollars in this report are to U.S. dollars, except where stated otherwise.  Our consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our majority-owned and/or controlled subsidiaries, and all significant intercompany items have been eliminated in consolidation. The address of our principal executive offices is 1001 Louisiana Street, Suite 1000, Houston, Texas 77002, and our telephone number at this address is (713) 369-9000.Recent DevelopmentsThe following is a brief listing of significant developments and updates related to our major projects.  Additional information regarding most of these items may be found elsewhere in this report. “Capital Scope” is estimated for our share of the described project which may include portions not yet completed.Asset or project Description Activity Approx. Capital ScopePlaced in service or acquisitionsHiland Partners Assets consist of crude oil gathering and transportation pipelines and gas gathering and processing systems, primarily serving production from the Bakken Formation in North Dakota and Montana, including the Double H crude oil pipeline. Acquired February 2015. $3.0billion7Asset or project Description Activity Approx. Capital ScopeTGP Broad Run Flexibility and Broad Run Expansion Modification to existing pipelines under two separate projects to create 790,000 Dth/d of north-to-south gas transportation capacity from a receipt point in West Virginia to delivery points in Mississippi and Louisiana. Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. TGP Broad Run Flexibility facilities were placed in service November 2015 to allow for deliveries of 590,000 Dth/d; In-service of the remaining 200,000 Dth/d as of June 1, 2018.   $800 millionELC Acquisition Acquired Shell’s 49 percent equity interest in the ELC joint venture to develop liquefaction facilities at Elba Island, Georgia. Acquired July 2015. $510 millionTGP South System Flexibility Expansion project that provides more than 900 miles of north-to-south transportation capacity of 500,000 Dth/d on our TGP system from Tennessee to South Texas and expands our transportation service to Mexico.  Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. Initial volume placed into service January 2015. The next capacity increment was placed in service December 2015, with the remainder expected in December 2016. $216 millionNGPL Acquisition Acquired equity interest from Myria Holdings, Inc. increasing ownership in NGPL from 20 percent to 50 percent.  Acquired December 2015. $136 millionCow Canyon development An expansion project that will increase CO2 production in the Cow Canyon area of the McElmo Dome source field by 200 MMcf/d. Majority placed in service in 2015. $309 millionEdmonton Rail Terminal Expansion increases capacity to over 210,000 bpd at the joint venture crude rail terminal in Edmonton.  The facility, supported by long-term customer contracts, will be connected via pipeline to the Trans Mountain pipeline and be capable of sourcing all crude streams handled by us for delivery by rail to North American markets and refineries. Placed in service second quarter 2015. CAD$270 millionRoyal Vopak U.S. Terminal acquisition Purchase of three U.S. terminals and one undeveloped site. Acquisition closed in February 2015. $158 millionGalena Park Tank Project and Pasadena Barge Dock Construction of nine storage tanks with total shell capacity of 1.2 million barrels and a new barge dock at Pasadena, supported by long-term customer contracts. Final three tanks were placed in service first quarter 2015; barge dock placed in service December 2015. $138 millionKM Condensate Processing Facility Project includes building two separate units to split condensate into various components and construct storage tanks totaling almost 2 million barrels to support the processing operation, supported by long-term customer contracts. Placed in service March 2015 (phase 1) and July 2015 (phase 2). $445 millionOther Announcements      Natural Gas PipelinesTGP Northeast Energy Direct-Market Path Development of a 188-mile market path that will extend from Wright, New York to Dracut, Massachusetts. Expected in service November 2018. $3.1billionELC and SLNG expansion Building of new natural gas liquefaction and export facilities at our SLNG natural gas terminal on Elba Island, near Savannah, Ga., with a total capacity of 2.5 million tonnes per year of LNG, equivalent to 350 MMcf/d of natural gas. Supported by a 20-year contract with Shell. First of 10 liquefaction units expected in service first quarter 2018 with the remainder by the end of 2018. $2.0billionEPNG upstream Sierrita Gas Pipeline LLC Expansion projects to provide 550,000 Dth/d contracted, firm natural gas transport capacity with a first phase of system improvements to deliver volumes to the Sierrita pipeline and the second phase for incremental deliveries of natural gas to Arizona and California. Phase one placed in service October 2014 ($2 million), phase two expected fully in service July 2020 ($389 million). $391 millionElba Express and SNG expansion Expansion project that provides 854,000 Dth/d incremental contracted, firm natural gas transportation service supporting the needs of customers in Georgia, South Carolina and northern Florida, and also serving ELC. Expected in service late third quarter or early fourth quarter of 2016 (first phase) and 2017. $306 millionTGP Southwest Louisiana Supply (formerly Cameron LNG) Project provides 900,000 Dth/d of long-term capacity to the future Cameron LNG export complex at Hackberry, Louisiana.  Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. Expected in service February 2018. $178 million8Asset or project Description Activity Approx. Capital ScopeTexas Intrastate Crossover Expansion Expansion project creating capacity from the Katy Hub, the company’s Houston Central processing plant, and other third party receipt points to serve the Texas Intrastate’s transportation commitments of 250,000 Dth/day to the Cheniere Corpus Christi LNG export facility and 527,000 Dth/day to the CFE at delivery points in South Texas.  Expected in-service September 2016 for the CFE commitment and January 2019 for the Cheniere commitment. $164 millionTexas Intrastate SK Freeport LNG Entered into a 20-year firm transportation services agreement with SK E&S LNG, LLC in December 2014 to provide more than 320,000 Dth/d of firm natural gas transportation services. Expected in-service January 2019 $161 millionTGP Susquehanna West Expansion project that provides 145,000 Dth/d incremental natural gas transportation capacity, serving the northeast Marcellus to points of liquidity.  Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. Expected in service November 2017. $156 millionKMLP Magnolia LNG Liquefaction Transport Upgrades to existing pipeline system to provide 700,000 Dth/d capacity to serve Magnolia LNG in the Lake Charles, La., area.  Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. Expected in-service fourth quarter 2018 $156 millionKMLP Cheniere Sabine Pass LNG Reconfiguration to flow northeast to southeast to deliver 600 MDth/d to the Cheniere Sabine Pass Liquefaction Terminal in Cameron Parish, LA.  Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. Expected in-service fourth quarter 2019 $146 millionTGP Orion (formerly Marcellus to Milford) An expansion project to provide additional firm capacity from the Marcellus supply basin to TGP’s interconnection with Columbia Gas Transmission in Pike County, Pennsylvania.  The capacity of this expansion will be at least 135,000 Dth/d.  Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. Expected in service June 2018. $142 millionTGP Lone Star Two Greenfield compressor stations to provide supply to the Corpus Christi LNG liquefaction project, for a capacity of 300,000 Dth/d.  Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. Expected in-service July 2019. $134 millionTGP Triad Expansion Expansion project that provides 180,000 Dth/d of long-term capacity for Invernergy’s Lakawanna Energy Center to serve a planned new area power plant.  Subscribed under long-term firm transportation contracts. Expected in service November 2017. $87millionCO2 Cortez Pipeline expansion Project will increase capacity from 1.35 Bcf/d to 1.5 Bcf/d on this existing pipeline.  This pipeline will transport CO2 from southwestern Colorado to eastern New Mexico and west Texas for use in enhanced oil recovery projects. Expected full in service second quarter 2016. $214 millionTerminalsKM General Dynamics’ NASSCO Tankers Purchase of five medium-range Jones Act tankers constructed by General Dynamics’ NASSCO Shipyard in San Diego. All of the tankers will be 50,000-deadweight-ton, LNG conversion-ready product carriers, with a capacity of 330,000 barrels and contracted for an average of 5 years. First tanker delivery took place in December 2015. Delivery of remaining four  tankers expected between early 2016 and mid-2017. $782 millionKM Philly Tankers Further expansion of growing fleet of Jones Act product tankers with the purchase of four, new 50,000-deadweight-ton. The Tier II tankers will be constructed by Philly Shipyard. (two under contract and two remaining to be contracted).  Each LNG conversion-ready tanker will have a capacity of 337,000 barrels. Definitive agreement executed. Delivery of tankers expected between November 2016 and November 2017. $633 millionKM and BP Joint Venture Acquire 15 refined products terminals and associated infrastructure. KM and BP have formed a joint venture to own 14 of the acquired assets. One terminal will be owned solely by KM.  Closed on February 1, 2016 $350 millionKM Export Terminal Brownfield expansion along Houston Ship Channel will add 12 storage tanks with 1.5 million barrels of liquids storage capacity, one ship dock, one barge dock and cross-channel pipelines to connect with the KM Galena Park terminal. Supported by a long-term contract with a major ship channel refiner. Expected in service first quarter 2017. $220 million9Asset or project Description Activity Approx. Capital ScopeKM Base Line Terminal development Announced a 50-50 joint venture with Keyera Corp. to build a new 4.8 million barrels of crude oil storage facility in Edmonton, Alberta.  Subscribed under long-term contracts.   Planning-permitting  activities continue. CAD$372 millionProducts PipelinesPalmetto Pipeline Construction of a new 360-mile pipeline, underpinned by long-term customer contracts, to move gasoline, diesel and ethanol from Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina to points in South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. Expected in service December 2017. $1 billionUtopia East Pipeline Building of new 240 mile pipeline, supported by a long-term customer contract, to transport ethane and ethane-propane mixtures from the prolific Utica Shale, with an initial design capacity of 50,000 bpd, expandable to more than 75,000 bpd. Expected in service January 2018. $517 millionKinder Morgan CanadaTrans Mountain Expansion Project An increase of capacity on our Trans Mountain pipeline system from approximately 300,000 to 890,000 barrels per day, underpinned by long-term take-or-pay contracts. Currently engaged in final approval process with the NEB and federal government, expected in service third quarter 2019. $5.4billionFinancingsOn January 26, 2016, we closed on a three-year, unsecured $1 billion term loan and a $1 billion expansion of our unsecured revolving credit facility, increasing the capacity of that facility from $4 billion to $5 billion. Proceeds from the term loan were used to repay existing borrowings and for general corporate purposes.  Pricing and the covenant package of both facilities are consistent with our existing revolving credit facility.Current Commodity Price EnvironmentItem 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” as well as Note 4 “Impairments and Disposals” and Note 8 “Goodwill” to our consolidated financial statements, discuss the impacts of the current commodity price environment on the energy industry, including our customers and us.  Refer to the developments addressed in these sections, including the resulting non-cash impairment charges related to goodwill, certain long-lived assets and equity method investments.  For a more general discussion of these related risk factors, refer to  “Risk Factors” below for more information.  Furthermore, we plan to provide updates to our 2016 expectations when we believe previously disclosed expectations no longer have a reasonable basis.(b) Financial Information about SegmentsFor financial information on our six reportable business segments, see Note 16 “Reportable Segments” to our consolidated financial statements.(c) Narrative Description of BusinessBusiness StrategyOur business strategy is to:•focus on stable, fee-based energy transportation and storage assets that are central to the energy infrastructure of growing markets within North America; •increase utilization of our existing assets while controlling costs, operating safely, and employing environmentally sound operating practices;•leverage economies of scale from incremental acquisitions and expansions of assets that fit within our strategy and are accretive to cash flow; and•maintain a strong balance sheet and return value to our stockholders.It is our intention to carry out the above business strategy, modified as necessary to reflect changing economic conditions and other circumstances.  However, as discussed under .  Risk Factors.  You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document.   Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.Risks Related to Operating our BusinessOur businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities that we handle.Our pipelines, terminals and other assets and facilities depend in part on continued production of natural gas, oil and other products in the geographic areas that they serve.  Our business also depends in part on the levels of demand for oil, natural gas, coal, steel, chemicals and other products in the geographic areas to which our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities deliver or provide service, and the ability and willingness of our shippers and other customers to supply such demand.Without additions to oil and gas reserves, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted, and production costs may rise.  Producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the Alberta oil sands.  Producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our pipelines and related facilities may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput.  Commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire.Changes in the business environment, such as the sharp decline in crude oil prices that began in 2014, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply to our pipelines, terminals and other assets.  In addition, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil, natural gas, coal and other products.  Each of these factors impacts our customers shipping through our pipelines or using our terminals, which in turn could impact the prospects of new contracts for transportation, terminaling or other midstream services, or renewals of existing contracts.Implementation of new regulations or changes to existing regulations affecting the energy industry could reduce production of and/or demand for natural gas, crude oil, refined petroleum products, coal and other hydrocarbons, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  We cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the production of and/or demand for natural gas, crude oil refined petroleum products and other hydrocarbons.Financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us.We are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers or other counterparties, such as hedging counterparties, joint venture partners and suppliers.  Some of these counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating, market and regulatory risks, and some are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness.  In 2015, several of our counterparties defaulted on their obligations to us, and some have filed for bankruptcy protection.  We cannot provide any assurance that other financially distressed counterparties will not also default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection.  If a counterparty files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion, of amounts that they owe to us.  Additional counterparty defaults and bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  Furthermore, in the case of 27financially distressed customers, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry, the coal industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services.  Our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region.  Volatility in commodity prices or changes in markets for a given commodity might also have a negative impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us.  See “-Financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us.” In addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil, NGL and natural gas will have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow.  See “-The volatility of oil and natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our CO2 business segment and businesses within our Natural Gas Pipeline and Products Pipelines business segments.”If global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the U.S. or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to begin and complete construction on expansion and new build projects may be inhibited by difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way, public opposition, cost overruns, inclement weather and other delays.We regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets.  A variety of factors outside of our control, such as difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals that can be exacerbated by public opposition to our projects, have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in our ability to begin construction projects.  Inclement weather, natural disasters and delays in performance by third-party contractors, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction.  Significant cost overruns or delays could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows and could result in project cancellations or limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities.Additionally, we must obtain and maintain the rights to construct and operate pipelines on other owners’ land.  If we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be negatively affected.  In addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements.  Whether we have the power of eminent domain for our pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline-petroleum liquids, natural gas, CO2, or crude oil-and the laws of the particular state.  Our interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority.  In either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court.  Our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our business if we were to lose the right to use or occupy any of the properties on which our pipelines are located.The acquisition of additional businesses and assets is part of our growth strategy.  We may experience difficulties integrating new properties and businesses, and we may be unable to achieve the benefits we expect from any future acquisitions.Part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses and assets.  If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings.  Integration of acquired companies or assets involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (ii) the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; and (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employees.We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately.  Successful integration of each acquisition will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs.  Difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time.  Because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations.28We face competition from other pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems.Any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors.  To the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to re-contract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired.  We also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems.  Several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us.Commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations.There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to transportation and storage of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products, CO2, coal, chemicals and other products -such as leaks, releases, explosions, mechanical problems and damage caused by third parties.  Additional risks to vessels include adverse sea conditions, capsizing, grounding and navigation errors.  These risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses.  For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater.  Incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and cash flows while the affected asset is temporarily out of service.  In addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The volatility of oil, NGL and natural gas prices could adversely affect our CO2 business segment and businesses within our Natural Gas Pipelines and Products Pipelines business segments.The revenues, cash flows, profitability and future growth of some of our businesses depend to a large degree on prevailing oil, natural gas and NGL prices.  Our CO2 business segment (and the carrying value of its oil, NGL and natural gas producing properties) and certain midstream businesses within our Natural Gas Pipelines segment depend to a large degree, and certain businesses within our Product Pipelines segment depend to a lesser degree, on prevailing oil, NGL and natural gas prices.  For 2016, we estimate that every $1 change in the average WTI crude oil price per barrel would impact our distributable cash flow by approximately $6.5 million and each $0.10 per MMBtu change in the average price of natural gas impacts distributable cash flow by approximately $0.6 million, and every 1% change in the ratio of the weighted-average NGL price per barrel to the WTI crude oil price per barrel impacts distributable cash flow by approximately $2.0 million.Prices for oil, NGL and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, NGL and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control.  These factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the U.S.; (ii) the condition of the U.S. economy; (iii) the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political instability in the Middle East and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources.  We use hedging arrangements to partially mitigate our exposure to commodity prices, but these arrangements also are subject to inherent risks.  Please read “- Our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income.”A sharp decline in the prices of oil, NGL or natural gas, or a prolonged unfavorable price environment, would result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from our businesses that produce, process, or purchase and sell oil, NGL, or natural gas, and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our CO2 business segment’s proved reserves.  If prices fall substantially or remain low for a sustained period and we are not sufficiently protected through hedging arrangements, we may be unable to realize a profit from these businesses and would operate at a loss.  In recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts.  Such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis.  These periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas.  The excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively 29short periods of seasonal market demand.  These fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process.  For more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Energy Commodity Market Risk.”The future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable.The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted.  Without successful development activities, the reserves, revenues and cash flows of the oil and gas producing assets within our CO2 business segment will decline.  We may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future.  Additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions.The development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment.The business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome.  Acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative.  It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well.  Furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment.  A variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable.  A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well.  In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances.Our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income.We engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, NGL and natural gas.  These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received.  In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas.The markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price exposure generally reflect then-prevailing conditions in the underlying commodity markets.  As our existing hedges expire, we will seek to replace them with new hedging arrangements.  To the extent underlying market conditions are unfavorable, new hedging arrangements available to us will reflect such unfavorable conditions.The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes.  Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements.  In addition, it is not possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that eliminate our exposure to commodity prices.  Our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge.  For more information about our hedging activities, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates-Hedging Activities” and Note 13 “Risk Management” to our consolidated financial statements.Terrorist attacks or “cyber security” events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business.The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other infrastructure assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or “cyber security” events.  These potential targets might include our pipeline systems, terminals, processing plants or operating systems.  A cyber security event could affect our ability to operate or control our facilities or disrupt our operations; also, customer information could be stolen.  The occurrence of one of these events could 30cause a substantial decrease in revenues and cash flows, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to our reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations.  There is no assurance that adequate cyber sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future.  These developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in, and our shipping vessels operate in, areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters.  These natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport.  Natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers.  In either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and the loss of such workforce could result in the failure to implement our business plans.Our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals.  We and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce.  In addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees.  If we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted.  In addition, we could experience increased allocated costs to retain and recruit these professionals.If we are unable to retain our executive chairman or executive officers, our ability to execute our business strategy, including our growth strategy, may be hindered.Our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive chairman and our executive officers, particularly Richard D.  Kinder, our Executive Chairman and one of our founders, and Steve Kean, our President and Chief Executive Officer.  Along with the other members of our senior management, Mr.  Kinder and Mr.  Kean have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy.  If we are not successful in retaining Mr.  Kinder, Mr.  Kean or our other executive officers, or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.  We do not maintain key personnel insurance.Our Kinder Morgan Canada and Terminals segments are subject to U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations.We are a U.S. dollar reporting company.  As a result of the operations of our Kinder Morgan Canada business segments, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues, cash flows and expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars.  Fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the U.S. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders’ equity under applicable accounting rules.Risks Related to Financing Our BusinessOur substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $41 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments).  Additionally, we and substantially all of our wholly owned subsidiaries are parties to a cross guarantee agreement under which each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party, which means that we are liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries.  This level of consolidated debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.31Our ability to service our consolidated debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  If our consolidated cash flow is not sufficient to service our consolidated debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital.  We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.  For more information about our debt, see Note 8 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements.Our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit.Adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings (which would have a corresponding impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries that are party to the cross guarantee) could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, limiting our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities and reducing our cash flows.  Our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions.  Although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries’ debt securities.Also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms.  A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our acquisition strategy and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital.  Limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow.We have limited amounts of internally generated cash flows to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures.  We may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures.  Limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy.Our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates.As of December 31, 2015, approximately $11 billion of our approximately $41 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term variable-rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps.  Should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase, and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected.  For more information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk.”Our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs.The instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us.  Some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions.  The instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions.  Our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Capital StockThe guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates.  Circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business.We disclose in this report and elsewhere the expected cash dividends on our common stock and on our preferred stock (or depositary shares).  This reflects our current judgment, but as with any estimate, it may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control.  See “Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” If the payment of dividends at the anticipated levels would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely 32advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business would be harmed.  Conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated levels.  As events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, might have to choose between addressing those matters and reducing our anticipated dividends.  Alternatively, because nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, our board of directors may choose to cause us to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends.  This would add to our substantial debt discussed below under “-Risks Related to Financing Our Business-Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic consequences.”Our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership of our common stock by non-U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act.  These restrictions may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-U.S. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss.The Jones Act requires, among other things, that at least 75% of our common stock be owned at all times by U.S. citizens, as defined under the Jones Act, in order for us to own and operate vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade.  As a safeguard to help us maintain our status as a U.S. citizen, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the number of shares of our common stock owned by non-U.S. citizens exceeds 22%, we have the ability to redeem shares owned by non-U.S. citizens to reduce the percentage of shares owned by non-U.S. citizens to 22%.  These redemption provisions may adversely impact the marketability of our common stock, particularly in markets outside of the United States.  Further, stockholders would not have control over the timing of such redemption, and may be subject to redemption at a time when the market price or timing of the redemption is disadvantageous.  In addition, the redemption provisions might have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest by a non-U.S. citizen, even if it were favorable to the interests of some or all of our stockholders.Risks Related to RegulationNew regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations.Our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state, provincial and local regulatory authorities.  Regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability.  Regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses.Should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and potential loss of government contracts.  Furthermore, new laws or regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources.  New laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties-(c) Narrative Description of Business-Regulation.”The FERC, the CPUC, or the NEB may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us.  In addition, the FERC, the CPUC, the NEB, or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us.The profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers.  To the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the FERC, the CPUC, or the NEB to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results.Our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint.  Regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations.  Some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in 33question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates.  Further, the FERC may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers.  We may face challenges, similar to those described in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines.  Any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition.Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities.Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety.  Such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals.  Liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Clean Water Act or analogous state or provincial laws for the remediation of contaminated areas.  Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage.  Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us.Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.  For example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, shipping vessels or storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures.  The resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our earnings and cash flows.  In addition, emission controls required under the Federal Clean Air Act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities.We own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities.  While we believe we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors’ wastes have been taken for disposal.  In addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control.  These properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the U.S. such as CERCLA, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct.  Under the regulatory schemes of the various Canadian provinces, such as British Columbia’s Environmental Management Act, Canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors.  Under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators.  Imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position.Further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.  For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties-(c) Narrative Description of Business-Environmental Matters.”Increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply.We are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity.  There are, for example, federal guidelines issued by the DOT for pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication.  The ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict.  The majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs.  Technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline’s integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in “High Consequence Areas” can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs.  We plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the DOT rules.  The results of these tests could cause 34us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines.Further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.Climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us and could reduce demand for our products and services.Various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases such as methane and CO2, including the EPA programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs.  Existing EPA regulations require us to report greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. from sources such as our larger natural gas compressor stations, fractionated NGL, and production of naturally occurring CO2 (for example, from our McElmo Dome CO2 field), even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere.  Proposed approaches to further regulate greenhouse gas emissions include establishing greenhouse gas “cap and trade” programs, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of alternative fuels with lower carbon content.  For more information about climate change regulation, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties-(c) Narrative Description of Business-Environmental Matters-Climate Change.”Adoption of any such laws or regulations could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant.  Recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC.  Such laws or regulations could also lead to reduced demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to greenhouse gases, or restrictions on their use, which in turn could adversely affect demand for our products and services.Finally, some climatic models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather.  To the extent these phenomena occur, they could damage our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone regions.Any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities.We gather, process or transport crude oil, natural gas or NGL from several areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent.  Oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control.  The oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane.  The extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing.  Hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells.  There have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing.  Adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of crude oil, natural gas or NGL and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of these commodities that we handle.In addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector.  These laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation.  Specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations 35regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes.  In addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities.  These laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities.Derivatives regulation could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the OTC derivatives market and entities that participate in that market.  The CFTC has proposed new rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for OTC swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges.  As the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the Dodd-Frank Act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided.  The Dodd-Frank Act, related regulations and the reduction in competition due to derivatives industry consolidation have (i) significantly increased the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduced the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduced the liquidity of energy related derivatives.If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.  Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors.  Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas.  Our revenues and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Jones Act includes restrictions on ownership by non-U.S. citizens of our U.S. point to point maritime shipping vessels, and failure to comply with the Jones Act, or changes to or a repeal of the Jones Act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade, result in the forfeiture of our vessels or otherwise adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations.We are subject to the Jones Act, which generally restricts U.S. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the U.S., owned and operated by U.S.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by U.S. citizens and manned by predominately U.S. crews.  Our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade.  If we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-U.S. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels.  Our business could be adversely affected if the Jones Act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same U.S. government imposed burdens.Item 1B