 “Risk Factors.” The risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.  We disclaim any obligation, other than as required by applicable law,  and described below under Items 1 and 2, “Business and Properties­—Recent Developments—2014 Outlook”, to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.7Table of ContentsPART IItems 1 and 2.  Business and Properties.Kinder Morgan, Inc. is the largest midstream and the third largest energy company in North America with a combined enterprise value (including its two publicly traded MLP subsidiaries) of approximately $110 billion and unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” or “our,” are intended to mean Kinder Morgan, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We own an interest in or operate approximately 80,000 miles of pipelines and 180 terminals. Our pipelines transport natural gas, refined petroleum products, crude oil, condensate, CO2 and other products, and our terminals store petroleum products, ethanol and chemicals, and handle such products as coal, petroleum coke and steel.  Our common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol “KMI.”We own the general partner interests of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (NYSE: KMP) and El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P. (NYSE: EPB), along with limited partner interests in KMP and EPB and shares in Kinder Morgan Management, LLC (NYSE: KMR). (a) General Development of Business Organizational Structure   On February 10, 2011, we converted from a Delaware LLC named Kinder Morgan Holdco LLC to a Delaware corporation named Kinder Morgan, Inc. and our outstanding units were converted into classes of our capital stock.  These transactions are referred to herein as the “Conversion Transaction.”  On February 16, 2011, we completed the initial public offering of our Class P common stock, which is sometimes referred to herein as our “common stock.” All of the common stock that was sold in the offering was sold by our existing investors consisting of funds advised by or affiliated with Goldman Sachs & Co., Highstar Capital LP, The Carlyle Group and Riverstone Holdings LLC, referred to herein as the “Sponsor Investors.”  No members of management sold shares in the offering, and we did not receive any proceeds from the offering.  Upon the completion of our initial public offering of Class P common stock we were owned by the public, and by individuals and entities that were the owners of Kinder Morgan Holdco LLC, which are referred to collectively in this report as the “Investors.”  The Investors were Richard D. Kinder, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; the Sponsor Investors; Fayez Sarofim, one of our directors, and investment entities affiliated with him, and an investment entity affiliated with Michael C. Morgan, another of our directors, and William V. Morgan, one of our founders, whom we refer to collectively as the “Original Stockholders”; and a number of other members of our management, who are referred to collectively as “Other Management.” The Investors owned all of our outstanding Class A shares, Class B shares and Class C shares, which are sometimes referred to in this report as the “investor retained stock.”  Our Class A shares represented the total capital contributed by the Investors (and a notional amount of capital allocated to the contribution of the holders of the Class C shares) at the time of the Going Private Transaction. The Class B shares and Class C shares represented incentive compensation that were held by members of our management, including Mr. Kinder only in the case of the Class B shares.During the year ended December 31, 2012, certain of the Sponsor Investors (the Selling Stockholders) completed underwritten public offerings (the Offerings) of an aggregate of 198,996,921 shares of our Class P common stock (including 8,700,000 shares that were the subject of an underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares). Neither we nor our management sold any shares of common stock in the Offerings, and we did not receive any of the proceeds from the offerings of shares by the Selling Stockholders. As a result of these offerings, the Sponsor Investors advised by or affiliated with Goldman Sachs & Co., The Carlyle Group, and Riverstone Holdings LLC no longer own any of our shares, and representatives of these Sponsor Investors are no longer on our board.On December 26, 2012, the remaining series of the Class A, Class B and Class C shares held by the Investors automatically converted into shares of Class P common stock upon the election of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of each such series of Class A common stock and the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of each such series of Class B common stock. Subsequent to these conversions, all our Class A, Class B and Class C shares were fully converted and as a result, only our Class P common stock was outstanding as of December 31, 2012.   Additionally, as Class A, Class B and Class C shares converted, certain holders of the Class P shares were paid out in cash and their Class P shares were immediately canceled. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 2 million and less than 1 million, respectively, Class P shares were canceled resulting in payments totaling approximately $71 million and $2 million, respectively, to the holders of those shares.8We conduct most of our business through our MLPs (KMP and EPB).  KMP is a Delaware limited partnership formed in August 1992. KMR is a Delaware LLC formed in February 2001. KMP’s general partner, KMGP, owns all of KMR’s voting securities.  Pursuant to a delegation of control agreement, KMGP, has delegated to KMR, to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law and KMP’s partnership agreement, all of its power and authority to manage and control KMP’s business and affairs, except that KMR cannot take certain specified actions without the approval of KMP’s general partner.  EPB is a Delaware limited partnership formed in 2007. EPB’s general partner is El Paso Pipeline GP Company, L.L.C., all of whose stock we indirectly own.The equity interests in KMP, EPB and KMR (which are all consolidated in our financial statements) owned by the public are reflected within “Noncontrolling interests” in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  The earnings recorded by KMP, EPB and KMR that are attributed to their units and shares, respectively, held by the public are reported as “Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests” in our accompanying consolidated statements of income.Additional information concerning the business of, and our investment in and obligations to, KMP, EPB and KMR is contained in Notes 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and 10 “Stockholders Equity” to our consolidated financial statements and KMP’s, EPB’s and KMR’s individual Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.You should read the following in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto.  We have prepared our accompanying consolidated financial statements under GAAP and the rules and regulations of the SEC.  Our accounting records are maintained in U.S. dollars and all references to dollars in this report are to U.S. dollars, except where stated otherwise.  Canadian dollars are designated as C$.  Our consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our majority-owned and/or controlled subsidiaries, and all significant intercompany items have been eliminated in consolidation. The address of our principal executive offices is 1001 Louisiana Street, Suite 1000, Houston, Texas 77002, and our telephone number at this address is (713) 369-9000.Recent DevelopmentsThe following is a brief listing of significant developments since December 31, 2012.  We begin with developments pertaining to our reportable business segments.  Additional information regarding most of these items may be found elsewhere in this report.Natural Gas Pipelines KMP •On March 1, 2013, KMP acquired from us both the remaining 50% ownership interest KMP did not already own in EPNG and the remaining 50% ownership interest it did not already own in the EP midstream assets for an aggregate consideration of approximately $1.7 billion, consisting of cash paid, common units issued and debt assumed.  In this report, we refer to this acquisition of assets from us as the March 2013 drop-down transaction; the combined group of assets acquired from us effective March 1, 2013 as the March 2013 drop-down asset group; and the EP midstream assets or Kinder Morgan Altamont LLC (formerly, El Paso Midstream Investment Company, L.L.C.) as the midstream assets.  KMP acquired its initial 50% ownership interest in the midstream assets effective June 1, 2012 from an investment vehicle affiliated with KKR for consideration of $289 million in common units.On August 1, 2012, KMP acquired both the full ownership interest in TGP and an initial 50% ownership interest in EPNG from us for an aggregate consideration of approximately $6.2 billion, consisting of cash paid, common units issued and debt assumed.  In this report, we refer to the August 1, 2012 acquisition of assets from us as the August 2012 drop-down transaction; the combined group of assets acquired from us effective August 1, 2012 as the August 2012 drop-down asset group; the combined August 2012 drop-down transaction and the March 2013 drop-down transaction (described above) as the drop-down transactions; and the combined August 2012 drop-down asset group and the March 2013 drop-down asset group (described above) as the drop-down asset groups.9•On May 1, 2013, KMP closed its previously announced acquisition of Copano.  KMP acquired all of Copano’s outstanding units for a total purchase price of approximately $5.2 billion (including assumed debt and all other assumed liabilities).  The transaction was a 100% unit for unit transaction with an exchange ratio of 0.4563 of KMP’s common units for each Copano common unit.  KMP issued 43,371,210 of its common units valued at approximately $3.7 billion as consideration for the Copano acquisition (based on the $86.08 closing market price of a common unit on the NYSE on the May 1, 2013 issuance date).  In association with KMP’s Copano acquisition, we, as general partner of KMP, waived $75 million of incremental incentive distributions for 2013, and intend to forgo incentive distributions of $120 million for 2014, $120 million for 2015, $110 million for 2016 and annual amounts thereafter decreasing by $5 million per year from this level.KMP’s acquisition of Copano added midstream natural gas assets located primarily in Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming to its existing business portfolio, and enlarged its existing service offerings to natural gas producers, including gathering, processing, treating and fractionation.  Additionally, as a result of this acquisition, KMP is currently pursing incremental development projects in the Eagle Ford shale formation in South Texas, and has gained entry into the Barnett shale formation in North Texas and the Mississippi Lime and Woodford shale formations in Oklahoma.  For more information about this acquisition, see Note 3 “Acquisitions and Divestitures” to our consolidated financial statements;•In April 2013, KMP completed construction and began transportation service on a newly expanded segment of its DeWitt/Karnes (DK) natural gas pipeline system.  The DK pipeline system runs through DeWitt County and Karnes County, Texas, and in 2012, Copano initiated an approximately $120 million expansion project to extend the 24-inch diameter pipeline approximately 65 miles southwest into McMullen County, Texas.  The expansion was based on a fee-based agreement with a single customer whereby KMP provides midstream gathering and handling services in exchange for committed production volumes;•In April 2013, KMP commissioned the first of two 400 MMcf/d cryogenic unit expansions at its Houston Central processing plant located in Colorado County, Texas.  KMP expects to complete the second expansion in mid-2014, and when completed, total processing capacity at the Houston Central plant will be approximately 1.5 Bcf/d.  The current estimate of total project construction costs including expansion of the pipeline capacity upstream of the plant is approximately $250 million;•TGP continues to move forward on its approximately $83 million Rose Lake expansion project in northeastern Pennsylvania. The project will provide long-term firm transportation service for two shippers that have fully subscribed 230 MDth/d of firm capacity. Subject to regulatory approvals, a November 1, 2014, in-service date is anticipated;•On July 2, 2013, KMP’s wholly-owned subsidiary Sierrita Gas Pipeline LLC entered into a Subscription Agreement with KMP, MGI Enterprises U.S. LLC (an affiliate of PEMEX) and MIT Pipeline Investment Americas, Inc. (an affiliate of Mitsui), whereby MGI and MIT acquired equity interests of 35% and 30%, respectively, in Sierrita in exchange for capital contributions.  Each member of Sierrita, including KMP, contributed approximately $5 million, determined based on the anticipated cash requirement of Sierrita through the end of September 2013.  Following the execution of a First Amended and Restated LLC Agreement, KMP now operates and owns a 35% equity interest in Sierrita Gas Pipeline LLC, and the investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  The company will invest approximately $72 million in the proposed Sierrita Pipeline Project, which includes construction of a 60-mile pipeline that will extend from the EPNG pipeline system, near Tucson, Arizona, to the Mexican border at Sasabe, Arizona. The 36-inch Sierrita Pipeline will have approximately 200 MMcf/d of capacity and an affiliate of PEMEX previously executed a 25-year agreement for all of the capacity. Subject to regulatory approvals, the pipeline is expected to be in service in September 2014;•On September 1, 2013, TGP sold certain natural gas facilities located offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and onshore in the state of Louisiana to Kinetica Partners LLC for an aggregate consideration of $32 million in cash.  TGP’s investment in the net assets sold in this transaction totaled $89 million, and as a result of the sale, TGP recognized both a $93 million increase in regulated assets and a $36 million gain from the sale of assets in 2013;  10•Field survey work continues for TGP’s fully subscribed approximately $77 million Connecticut expansion project.  The project will provide 72 MDth/d of additional long-term natural gas capacity to two local distribution customers.  The project includes constructing approximately 13-miles of new pipeline loops along the TGP system in Connecticut, New York and Massachusetts, and acquiring an existing pipeline lateral from another operator.  Pending regulatory approvals, the expansion project is expected to be operational on November 1, 2016;•The proposed Cameron LNG liquefaction facility at Hackberry, Louisiana, in which we do not own an interest, received Department of Energy conditional approval for non-Free Trade Agreement export on February 11, 2014, and TGP continues to advance plans to transport 900 MDth/d of natural gas to the future facility under long-term agreements. Following a binding open season in the summer of 2013, TGP awarded 300 MDth/d of capacity to a subsidiary of MMGS Inc. (Mitsui) for a 20-year agreement to transport natural gas earmarked for the liquefaction facility, which is slated to begin LNG exports in the second half of 2017. Earlier in 2013, TGP announced a binding, 20-year agreement with anchor shipper Mitsubishi Corporation to ship 600 MDth/d of natural gas for the proposed project.  Future shipments by TGP are part of its approximately $138 million Southwest Louisiana Supply Project;•On November 1, 2013, TGP completed and placed into service its previously announced $504 million Northeast Upgrade project.  The project expanded TGP’s pipeline facilities in Pennsylvania and New Jersey and provides for additional takeaway capacity from the Marcellus shale gas formation.  The fully-subscribed project increased system capacity on TGP’s 300 Line system by approximately 636 MDth/d through five segment loops and system upgrades at four existing compressor stations and one meter upgrade in New Jersey;•On November 1, 2013, TGP completed and placed into service its previously announced $54 million Marcellus Pooling project.  The fully subscribed project provides approximately 240 MDth/d of additional firm transportation capacity from the Marcellus shale gas formation.  The expansion included approximately eight miles of 30-inch diameter pipeline looping, system modifications and upgrades to allow bi-directional flow at four existing compressor stations in Pennsylvania;•TGP completed a successful binding open season in December for incremental, north-to-south natural gas transportation capacity on the TGP system totaling 500 MDth/d, which was awarded to five different shippers.  The awarded capacity will provide firm transportation service for Marcellus and Utica production from receipt points as far north as Mercer, Pennsylvania, for delivery to multiple delivery points on the Gulf Coast.  TGP will invest approximately $156 million in this Utica Backhaul project.  Capacity bids exceeded the capacity offered, and TGP is exploring further capacity expansions for its customers;•TGP signed a binding, 15-year firm transportation agreement with Seneca Resources Corporation to ship 158 MDth/d of natural gas to eastern Canadian markets on the Niagara Expansion Project.  Subject to regulatory approvals, the approximately $26 million project is expected to begin service November 1, 2015.  Seneca will be the foundation shipper for TGP’s Niagara Expansion Project, designed to provide transportation from the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania to TGP’s interconnect with TransCanada Pipeline in Niagara County, New York, to serve growing markets for U.S. gas in eastern Canada; and•KMP is investing approximately $126 million for additional compression and pipeline system modifications to expand the Kinder Morgan Texas and Mier-Monterrey pipelines.  The project is supported by three customers in Mexico that entered into long-term firm transportation contracts for more than 200 MMcf/d of capacity, which will be phased in from 2014 through 2016.  A fourth customer has also contracted for 150 MMcf/d of the project’s capacity on an interim basis for use prior to the effective date of the contracts with the other customers, accelerating the timing of the expansion for a projected initial in-service date of September 1, 2014.EPB•EPB announced in December that Shell US Gas & Power gave notice to EPB’s Elba Liquefaction Company joint venture to move forward on Phase II of the jointly owned natural gas liquefaction project at Elba Island LNG terminal near Savannah, Ga.  EPB’s SLC unit owns 51% of the Elba Liquefaction Company joint venture.  The additional capacity will range from 70 MMcf/d (0.5 million tonnes per year) up to 140 MMcf/d (1.0 million tonnes per year), with EPB’s share of estimated capital expenditure for Phase II at the maximum volume of 140 MMcf/d of approximately $224 million.  At full development, the Elba liquefaction project is expected to have total capacity of approximately 350 MMcf/d of natural gas (2.5 million tonnes per year of LNG) at a cost of approximately $1.5 billion.  Subject to regulatory approvals, Phase I is anticipated to be in service in late 2016 or early 2017 and Phase II is expected to be in service in 2017-2018. 11•SNG and Elba Express will invest approximately $279 million to expand its systems following successful open seasons held in August 2013 for incremental, long-term natural gas transportation service.  The open seasons generated customer interest in incremental capacity of greater than 700,000 Dth/d that will support southeastern U.S. infrastructure growth and the needs of customers in Georgia, South Carolina and northern Florida.  EEC customers have expressed interest that could add incremental capacity of approximately 300,000 Dth/d to the project, which, if constructed, would bring the total capacity of the expansions to approximately 1 Bcf/d.  EEC expects an in-service date as early as June 2016 pending regulatory approvals.•SNG placed its Rose Hill Project into service on schedule in November, which involved facility modifications to benefit both SNG and TGP, a subsidiary of KMP.  The approximately $25 million SNG portion of the project allows SNG customers to shift about 450,000 Dth/d to different receipt locations including an interconnection between SNG and TGP.  The approximately $9 million TGP portion of the project improved the delivery capabilities from TGP to SNG.•Construction continues on the WYCO High Plains Expansion Project, a joint venture between CIG and Xcel Energy.  The project began partial service in November of 2013, and the approximately $22 million project (EPB’s share is $11 million) is expected to be completed in the spring of this year.  CIG is constructing approximately 8 miles of pipeline and making other modifications to provide additional takeaway capacity from the Denver-Julesburg Basin and link this prolific basin with CIG’s High Plains pipeline system.  The project is supported by two shippers who signed long-term contracts for an initial 250,000 Dth/d.  CO2 -KMP •On June 1, 2013, KMP acquired certain oil and gas properties, rights, and related assets in the Permian Basin of West Texas from Legado Resources LLC for approximately $285 million (before working capital adjustments and excluding assumed liabilities).  The acquisition of the Goldsmith Landreth San Andres oil field unit includes more than 6,000 acres located in Ector County, Texas.  The acquired oil field is in the early stages of CO2 flood development and includes a residual oil zone along with a classic San Andres waterflood.  The field currently produces approximately 1,230 Bbl/d of oil, and as part of the transaction, KMP obtained a long-term supply contract (now held by one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries) for up to 150 MMcf/d of CO2; •Construction continues on KMP’s approximately $214 million Yellow Jacket Central Facility expansion at the McElmo Dome CO2 source field in southwest Colorado.  The first of four planned expansion projects is expected to be operational by November 2014.  These expansions will increase CO2 production from 1.1 Bcf/d to 1.23 Bcf/d;•In September 2013, KMP completed the parallel (primary) compression portion of its previously announced $255 million investment to expand the CO2 capacity of its approximately 87%-owned Doe Canyon Deep unit in southwestern Colorado.  Doe Canyon is now producing about 200 MMcf/d of CO2, substantially higher than the initial projection of 170 MMcf/d.  Construction was completed and the booster compression was available for service in mid-December 2013.  Additional well drilling and completions in the field have allowed continued production without operation of the booster compression.  Booster compression operation is expected to begin in late 2015.  Final work continues on pipeline insulation, painting, and final cleanup and is expected to be complete in early April of 2014.  KMP plans to drill approximately 18 more wells during the next ten years, with four expected to be drilled in 2014; and•Work continues on the expansion of KMP’s Wink Pipeline System, which transports crude oil from the company’s West Texas oil fields to Western Refining Company’s facility in El Paso, Texas.  KMP is in the process of increasing Wink’s capacity from 132 MBbl/d to 145 MBbl/d to meet expected higher future throughput requirements at Western’s refinery.  KMP anticipates that the new facilities will be online in the first quarter of 2014.Products Pipelines-KMP•On September 3, 2013, KMP and Valero Energy Corporation completed construction and placed into service the previously announced Parkway Pipeline, a new 141-mile, 16-inch diameter pipeline that transports refined petroleum products from refineries located in Norco, Louisiana, to Plantation Pipe Line Company’s (KMP’s approximately 51%-owned equity investee) petroleum transportation hub located in Collins, Mississippi.  KMP will operate and own a 50% equity interest in the Parkway Pipeline LLC, which has an initial capacity of 110 MBbl/d, with the ability to 12expand to over 200 MBbl/d.  The approximately $260 million pipeline system is supported by a long-term throughput agreement with a credit-worthy shipper;•Construction continues on the approximately $360 million petroleum condensate processing facility located near KMP’s Galena Park terminal on the Houston Ship Channel.  Supported by a long-term, fee-based agreement with BP North America for substantially all 100 MBbl/d of throughput capacity at the facility, the project includes building two separate units to split condensate into its various components and the construction of storage tanks for the almost 2 MMBbl of product that will be split at the facility.  The first phase of the splitter is scheduled to be commissioned in June 2014 and the second phase is expected to come online in the second quarter of 2015;•KMP continues to make progress on pipeline modifications for its approximately $310 million Cochin Reversal project to move light condensate from Kankakee County, Illinois, to existing terminal facilities near Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta.  Construction also is underway on the 1 MMBbl storage capacity Kankakee tank farm and associated pipeline facilities where Cochin will interconnect with the Explorer Pipeline and the Enterprise TEPPCO Pipeline.  The project remains on schedule for a late June 2014 in-service date;•Tank and pipeline construction continues on KMP’s approximately $109 million expansion of its KMCC pipeline to ConocoPhillips’ central delivery facility in Karnes County, Texas.  The project, supported by a long-term contract with ConocoPhillips, will extend the 178-mile pipeline 31 miles west from the company’s DeWitt Station (west of Cuero, Texas) to ConocoPhillips’ central delivery facility in Helena, Texas.  KMP expects to complete the project in the third quarter of 2014;•In January 2014, KMP completed and placed into service its approximately $101 million, 27-mile Sweeny Lateral pipeline, which transports Eagle Ford crude and condensate from its KMCC pipeline to Phillips 66’s Sweeny Refinery in Brazoria County, Texas.  The two 120,000-barrel storage tanks and seven truck offloading racks at KMP’s DeWitt County station are also complete and in service, and the new pumps and two 120,000-barrel storage tanks at KMP’s Wharton County pump station will be completed February, 2014;•KMP has entered into an agreement with a large Eagle Ford Shale producer to extend the KMCC pipeline farther into the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas.  KMP will invest approximately $74 million to build an 18-mile lateral pipeline northwest from its DeWitt Station to a new facility in Gonzales County, where it will construct 300 MBbl of storage, a pipeline pump station and truck offloading facilities.  The lateral will have a capacity of 300 MBbl/d and will enable KMP to batch Eagle Ford Gathering LLC crude oil and condensate from the new Gonzales Station via KMCC to its delivery points on the Houston Ship Channel and the soon to be in service Sweeny Lateral pipeline serving the Phillips 66 Sweeny Refinery in Brazoria County, Texas.  Construction on the pipeline will start later this month and the project is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2015;•In December 2013, KMP and NOVA Chemicals Corporation announced a letter of intent to develop a new products pipeline from the Utica Shale.  Under the agreement, KMP’s Cochin pipeline will construct, own and operate a 210-mile pipeline from multiple fractionation facilities in Harrison County, Ohio, to KMP’s Cochin pipeline near Riga, Michigan, where the company will then move product via Cochin east to Windsor, Ontario, Canada.  The proposed approximately $300 million KMP Utica To Ontario Pipeline Access (UTOPIA) would transport previously refined or fractionated NGL, including ethane and propane.  UTOPIA is expected to have an initial 50 MBbl/d of capacity, which is expandable to more than 75 MBbl/d, and anticipates a mid-year 2017 in-service date, pending NOVA’s execution of a definitive agreement during the binding open season (which is expected in 2014) and timely receipt of necessary permitting and regulatory approvals; and•KMP and Targa Resources Partners signed a letter of intent in December 2013 to form a joint venture to construct new NGL fractionation facilities at Mont Belvieu, Texas, to provide services for producers in the Utica and Marcellus Shale resource plays in Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania.  The obligations under the letter of intent are conditioned upon a successful open season and the construction of the Utica Marcellus Texas Pipeline (UMTP).  UMTP is a proposed joint venture between MarkWest Utica EMG and KMP (also announced in the third quarter of 2013), of up to 150 MBbl/d expandable to 400 MBbl/d of maximum pipeline capacity over time.  The new NGL fractionation facilities would be located adjacent to Targa’s existing fractionation facilities at Mont Belvieu and would provide fractionation services for customers of UMTP.  To allow shippers time to assess their Gulf Coast fractionation and pipeline needs, the binding open season currently under way for the proposed Y-grade UMTP has been extended until February 28, 2014.  UMTP would involve the abandonment and conversion of over 1,000 miles of our existing TGP system, currently in natural gas service, and building approximately 200 miles of new pipeline.13•KMP entered into a long term agreement in January 2014 with BP North America (BP) for pipeline transportation of Eagle Ford condensate to the Houston Ship Channel.  The $28 million project includes construction of tankage and truck rack receipt facilities at the KMCC Helena Station in Karnes County, Texas and is scheduled to be operational in the first quarter of 2015.  This new origin facility will provide additional supply for the 100 MBbl/d condensate processing facility subscribed to by BP and currently under construction by KMCC in Galena Park, Texas.•In December 2013, KMP and its Double Eagle joint venture signed a long term agreement with Anadarko for firm transportation service of Eagle Ford condensate to the Houston Ship Channel.  Improvements include construction of tanks and a pump station near Gardendale in LaSalle County, Texas and a new ten mile pipeline joining the Double Eagle and KMCC pipeline systems at Helena Station in Karnes County, Texas.  KMP’s share of the total project cost is approximately $45 million and the facilities are expected to be operational in early 2015.  Terminals-KMP•In August 2013, KMP completed and commissioned for service its previously announced petroleum coke terminal located at BP’s Whiting refinery in Hammond, Indiana.  KMP expects that the terminal will handle approximately 2.2 million tons of petroleum coke per year for the next three years, and this volume is supported by a 20-year service contract with BP.  KMP invested approximately $62 million for the construction of this facility, which includes nine conveyors, a 30,000-ton storage barn and a fleet of 190 railcars to move approximately 6,000 tons of petroleum coke per day;•As of the date of this report, construction continues on the previously announced three phase export coal expansion project at KMP’s International Marine Terminals facility (IMT), a multi-product, import-export facility located in Myrtle Grove, Louisiana and owned 66 2/3% by KMP.  In August 2013, KMP completed the project’s $83 million phase one, which added approximately 800,000 tons of ground storage to the facility.  The remaining two phases entail adding a new continuous barge unloader, a new coal reclaim conveyor system and an additional five million tons of coal throughput capacity.  KMP expects the entire project to be operational in the second quarter of 2014 and currently, its estimated share of the total expansion project at International Marine Terminals (including all phases) is approximately $150 million;•Construction continues on KMP’s investment of $106 million to meet customer demand in the Houston Ship Channel with a new barge dock adjacent to KMP’s Pasadena terminal and nine new storage tanks (with total capacity of 1.2 MMBbl at its Galena Park terminal.  The new barge dock is expected to help relieve current dock congestion on the Houston Ship Channel and will enable KMP to handle up to 50 barges per month.  The tanks are expected to be placed in-service as they are completed beginning in the third quarter of 2014 and ending in the first quarter of 2015.  The barge dock is slated for a fourth quarter 2015 completion;•KMP’s 185-acre Battleground Oil Specialty Terminal Company LLC project located on the Houston Ship Channel is continuing to progress toward completion.  Thirty-one of the 51 storage tanks built during phase one construction have been placed in service and the remaining tanks will come online during the first half of 2014.  A two-berth ship dock and 12 barge berths were also placed in service in October, 2013.  Phase two construction also continues and involves building an additional 0.9 MMBbl of storage capacity.  BOSTCO expects phase two to begin service in the third quarter of 2014.  The approximately $500 million BOSTCO terminal is fully subscribed for a total capacity of 7.1 MMBbl and is able to handle ultra-low sulfur diesel, residual fuels and other black oil terminal services.  KMP owns 55% of and operates BOSTCO;•KMP is preparing a 42-acre site along the Houston Ship Channel for construction of a new ship dock to handle ocean going vessels and 1.5 MMBbl of liquids storage tanks.  The approximately $172 million project is supported by a long-term contract with a major ship channel refiner to construct the tanks and connect KMP’s Galena Park terminal to the refiner’s location.  Construction is scheduled to begin in the second quarter of 2014 and the project is expected to be in service in the first quarter of 2016;•Construction continues at KMP’s Edmonton Terminal expansion in Alberta, Canada.  By the end of February 2014, nine tanks with a capacity of 3.4 MMBbl will be in service and phase one will be complete.  Construction also continues on phase two, which will add an incremental 1.2 MMBbl storage capacity and is expected to be completed in late 2014.  The approximately $419 million project is supported by long-term contracts with major producers and refiners;14•In December 2013, KMP announced a joint venture with Imperial Oil to build the Edmonton Rail Terminal, a crude oil loading facility, near its Edmonton storage terminal on land adjacent to Imperial’s Strathcona Refinery.  Construction is underway on the Edmonton Rail Terminal, which will be capable of loading one to three unit trains per day totaling 100 MBbl/d at startup, with the potential to expand up to 250 MBbl/d.  The new rail terminal will be connected via pipeline to the Trans Mountain terminal and will be capable of sourcing crude oil handled by KMP for delivery by rail to North American markets and refineries.  The rail will be constructed and operated by KMP and will connect to both Canadian National and Canadian Pacific mainlines.  The joint venture is investing approximately $175 million in the project, and KMP will invest an additional approximately $100 million in pipeline connections and new staging tanks.  The facility is expected to be in service at the end of 2014; and•On January 17, 2014, KMP acquired American Petroleum Tankers (APT) and State Class Tankers (SCT) from affiliates of The Blackstone Group and Cerberus Capital Management for an aggregate consideration of approximately $962 million in cash.  APT and SCT are engaged in the marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined products in the U.S. domestic trade, commonly referred to as the Jones Act trade.  KMP expects that the transaction will be immediately accretive to cash available to its unitholders.Kinder Morgan Canada -KMP•On March 14, 2013, KMP closed the previously announced sale of both its one-third equity ownership interest in the Express pipeline system and its subordinated debenture investment in Express to Spectra Energy Corp.  For the divestiture of its investments, KMP received net cash proceeds of $402 million (after settlements of both final working capital balances and transaction related selling costs), and it recorded both a pre-tax gain amount of $224 million and an associated increase in income tax expense of $84 million; and•Trans Mountain Pipeline filed a Facilities Application with Canada’s NEB in December 2013 requesting authorization to build and operate the necessary facilities for the proposed $5.4 billion pipeline system expansion.  With this filing, the proposed project will undergo a comprehensive public regulatory review.  For the past 18 months, Kinder Morgan Canada has engaged and will continue to engage extensively with landowners, Aboriginal groups, communities and stakeholders along the proposed expansion route, and marine communities.  The next step is for the NEB to establish a hearing schedule that corresponds to the federal government’s legislated 15-month review and decision time frame.  Thirteen companies in the Canadian producing, refining and oil export business have signed firm contracts representing a total volume commitment of approximately 708 MBbl/d.  Kinder Morgan Canada received approval of the commercial terms related to the expansion from the NEB in May of 2013.  The proposed expansion will increase capacity on Trans Mountain from approximately 300 MBbl/d to 890 MBbl/d.  If approvals are received as planned, the expansion is expected to be operational at the end of 2017. Other Segment•On January 18, 2013, we completed the sale of our equity interests in the Bolivia to Brazil Pipeline that we had acquired as part of the EP acquisition for $88 million. See Note 3 “Acquisitions and Divestitures” to our consolidated financial statements.Financings•For information about our 2013 debt offerings and retirements, see Note 8 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements.  For information about our 2013 equity offerings, see Note 10 “Stockholders’ Equity-Non-Controlling Interests-Contributions” to our consolidated financial statements.2014 OutlookKMP•As previously announced, KMP anticipates that for the year 2014, (i) it will declare total annual cash distributions of $5.58 per unit, a 5% increase over its cash distributions of $5.33 per unit for 2013; (ii) its business segments will generate approximately $6.4 billion in EBDA , including amortization of excess cost of equity investments and its proportionate share of all DD&A of its unconsolidated joint ventures accounted for under the equity-method of accounting; (iii) it will distribute over $2.5 billion to its limited partners; (iv) it will produce excess cash flow of approximately $15 million above its cash distribution target of $5.58 per unit; and (v) it will invest approximately $3.6 15billion for its capital expansion program (including small acquisitions and contributions to joint ventures, but excluding acquisitions from us). KMP expects that a full-year of contributions from its 2013 acquisitions and expansions, along with partial-year contributions from its anticipated 2014 expansion investments, as described above under -Recent Developments, will help drive earnings and cash flow growth in 2014 and beyond.  Generally, KMP’s base cash flows (that is, cash flows not attributable to acquisitions or expansions) are relatively stable from year to year and are largely supported by multi-year, fee-based customer arrangements.  In addition, KMP’s expectations for 2014 discussed above involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and are not guarantees of performance.  Many of the factors that will determine these expectations are beyond our ability to control or predict, and because of these uncertainties, it is advisable to not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statement.  Please read  “Risk Factors” below for more information.(b) Financial Information about SegmentsFor financial information on our six reportable business segments, see Note 15 “Reportable Segments” to our consolidated financial statements.  16(c) Narrative Description of BusinessBusiness StrategyOur business strategy is to:•focus on stable, fee-based energy transportation and storage assets that are central to the energy infrastructure of growing markets within North America; •increase utilization of our existing assets while controlling costs, operating safely, and employing environmentally sound operating practices;•leverage economies of scale from incremental acquisitions and expansions of assets that fit within our strategy and are accretive to cash flow; and•maximize the benefits of our financial structure to create and return value to our stockholders.It is our intention to carry out the above business strategy, modified as necessary to reflect changing economic conditions and other circumstances.  However, as discussed under .  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document.  Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe are dependent on cash distributions received from KMP and EPB.For 2013, distributions from KMP and EPB represented approximately 87% of the sum of total cash generated by (i) distributions payable to us by our MLPs (on a declared basis) and (ii) distributable cash generated by assets we own and our share of cash generated by our joint venture investments. A decline in KMP’s and/or EPB’s revenues or increases in its general and administrative expenses, principal and interest payments under existing and future debt instruments, expenditures for taxes, working capital requirements or other cash needs will limit the amount of cash KMP and EPB can distribute to us, which would reduce the amount of cash available for dividends to our stockholders, which could be material.41Table of ContentsNew regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes in regulations, by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations could adversely impact our income and operations.  Our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our profitability.  Regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) rates (which include reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (ii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iii) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (iv) the certification and construction of new facilities; (v) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (vi) the acquisition of other businesses; (vii) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (viii) reporting and information posting requirements; (ix) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (x) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses.Should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of such regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.  Furthermore, new laws or regulations sometimes arise from unexpected sources.  For example, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriation Act of 2007 required the issuance of regulations establishing risk-based performance standards for the security of chemical and industrial facilities, including oil and gas facilities that are deemed to present “high levels of security risk.” New laws or regulations, or different interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including unexpected policy changes, applicable to us or our assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties-(c)  Narrative Description of Business-Regulation.”The FERC, the CPUC or the NEB may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us.  In addition, the FERC, the CPUC, the NEB or our customers could file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, and a successful complaint could have an adverse impact on us.  The profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers.  To the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the FERC, the CPUC or the NEB allows us to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact upon our operating results can be negatively impacted.  Our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint.  Regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations.  Some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates.  Further, the FERC may initiate investigations to determine whether some interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers.  We may face challenges, similar to those described in Note 16 “Litigation, Environmental and Other” to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on KMP’s, EPB’s and our other pipelines.  Any successful challenge could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. Energy commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to natural gas transmission and storage activities and refined petroleum products and CO2 transportation activities-such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems-that could result in substantial financial losses.  In addition, these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution and impairment of operations, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses.  For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater.  Incidents that cause an interruption of service, such as when unrelated third party construction damages a pipeline or a newly completed expansion experiences a weld failure, may negatively impact our revenues and earnings while the affected asset is temporarily out of service.  In addition, losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42Table of ContentsIncreased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. Primarily, through our regulated pipeline subsidiaries, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity.  There are, for example, federal guidelines for the U.S. DOT and pipeline companies in the areas of testing, education, training and communication.  The ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict.  The majority of the compliance costs are pipeline integrity testing and the repairs found to be necessary.  Changes such as advances of in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline’s integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in High Consequence Areas can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs.  We plan to continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the U.S. DOT rules.  The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines.Further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. The Jones Act includes restrictions on ownership by non-U.S. citizens of our vessels, and failure to comply with the Jones Act, or changes to or repeal of the Jones Act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade or result in the forfeiture of our vessels otherwise adversely impact our income and operations.Following our January 2014 acquisition of American Petroleum Tankers and State Class Tankers, we are subject to the Jones Act, which generally restricts U.S. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the U.S., owned and operated by U.S.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by U.S. citizens and manned by predominately U.S. crews. Our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade. If we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-U.S. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels.  Our business could by adversely affected if the Jones Act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same U.S. government imposed burdens.Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety.  Such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals.  Liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Clean Water Act or analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas.  Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage.  Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us.Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.  For example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines or our storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay for government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures.  The resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our level of earnings and cash flows.  In addition, emission controls required under the Federal Clean Air Act and other similar federal, state and provincial laws could require significant capital expenditures at our facilities.43Table of ContentsWe own and/or operate numerous properties that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities.  While we have utilized operating, handling, and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors’ wastes have been taken for disposal.  In addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control.  These properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the U.S. such as CERCLA, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct.  Under the regulatory schemes of the various Canadian provinces, such as British Columbia’s Environmental Management Act, Canada has similar laws with respect to properties owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors.  Under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators.  Imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position.In addition, our oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws andregulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control. Due to the rise of oil and gas production in new areas of thecountry and increased public scrutiny of fracturing and other practices in oil and gas drilling, many states are promulgatingstricter requirements not only for wells but also compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector. Theselaws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of agiven operation. Specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits beforedrilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation ofhazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes. In addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well andfacility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities.Further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties-(c) Narrative Description of Business-Environmental Matters-Climate Change.”Climate change regulation at the federal, state, provincial or regional levels could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us.Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and CO2, which is naturally occurring and also a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases.  The EPA regulates the greenhouse gas emissions and requires the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. for emissions  from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources, fractionated NGL, and the production of naturally occurring CO2, like our McElmo Dome CO2 field, even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere.Because our operations, including our compressor stations and natural gas processing plants in our Natural Gas Pipelines segment, emit various types of greenhouse gases, primarily methane and CO2, such regulation could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program and such increased costs could be significant.  Recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC.  Any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  For more information about climate change regulation, see Items 1 and 2 “Business and Properties-(c) Narrative Description of Business-Environmental Matters-Climate Change.Increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact KMP’s and EPB’s revenues by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on their natural gas pipelines. The natural gas industry is increasingly relying on natural gas supplies from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane.  The extraction of natural gas from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing.  Hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells.  There have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise 44Table of Contentsrestrict the use of hydraulic fracturing.  Adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of natural gas and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas transported on our or our joint ventures’ natural gas pipelines, several of which gather gas from areas in which the use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent.We may face competition from other pipelines and other forms of transportation into the areas we serve as well as with respect to the supply for our pipeline systems. Any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation that delivers crude oil, petroleum products or natural gas into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors.  To the extent that an excess of supply into these areas is created and persists, our ability to re-contract for expiring transportation capacity at favorable rates or otherwise to retain existing customers could be impaired.  We also could experience competition for the supply of petroleum products or natural gas from both existing and proposed pipeline systems.  Several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us.Cost overruns and delays on our expansion and new build projects could adversely affect our business.  KMP, EPB and our other pipelines regularly undertake major construction projects to expand their existing assets and to construct new assets.  A variety of factors outside of their control, such as weather, natural disasters and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as performance by third-party contractors, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction.  Significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows.We must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which our pipelines are constructed, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use.  We obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines on other owners’ land for a period of time.  If we were to lose these rights or be required to relocate our pipelines, our business could be negatively affected.  In addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements.Whether KMP, EPB or our other pipelines have the power of eminent domain for their pipelines, other than interstate natural gas pipelines, varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline-petroleum liquids, natural gas, CO2  or crude oil—and the laws of the particular state.  Our interstate natural gas pipelines have federal eminent domain authority.  In either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court.  Our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our subsidiaries’ business if they were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which pipelines are located. KMP’s and EPB’s acquisition strategies and expansion programs require access to new capital.  Limitations on their access to capital would impair our ability to grow.  Consistent with the terms of KMP’s and EPB’s partnership agreements, KMP and EPB distribute most of the cash generated by their operations.  As a result, they have relied on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund acquisition and growth capital expenditures.  However, to the extent our limited partnerships are unable to continue to finance growth externally; their cash distribution policy will significantly impair their ability to grow.  KMP and/or EPB may need new capital to finance these activities.  Limitations on access to capital, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, will impair their ability to execute this strategy.  KMP’s and EPB’s growth strategies may cause difficulties integrating and constructing new operations and they may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from any future acquisitions.  Part of KMP’s and EPB’s business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses, expanding existing assets and constructing new facilities.  If they do not successfully integrate acquisitions, expansions or newly constructed facilities, anticipated operating advantages and cost savings may not occur.  The integration of companies that have previously operated separately involves a number of risks, including (i) demands on management related to the increase in its size after an acquisition, expansion or completed construction project; (ii) the diversion of management’s attention from the management of 45Table of Contentsdaily operations; (iii) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, estimating, reporting and other systems; (iv) difficulties in the assimilation and retention of necessary employees; and (v) potential adverse effects on operating results.Our limited partnerships may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately.  Successful integration of each acquisition, expansion or construction project will depend upon their ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs.  Because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, cost savings and other size-related benefits they expected may not be achieved, which could harm their financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $34 billion of consolidated debt (including KMP and EPB, but excluding debt fair value adjustments).  This level of debt could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth or for other purposes; (ii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iii) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (iv) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  If our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, or any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions which may include reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital.  We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.  For more information about our debt, see Note 8 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements.Our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $8 billion (25%) of our approximately $34 billion consolidated debt (including KMP and EPB, but excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term debt of variable rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps.  Should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service this debt would increase and our earnings could be adversely affected.  For more information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk.”  Our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs.  The instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial and that may be beneficial to us.  The agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions.  The instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more restrictive restrictions.  Our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted.There is the potential for a change of control of the general partners of KMP and EPB if we default on debt.We own all of the common equity of the general partners of KMP and EPB.  If we default on debt, then the lenders under such debt, in exercising their rights as lenders, could acquire control of the general partners of KMP and EPB through their control of us.  A change of control of the general partners of KMP and EPB could materially adversely affect the distributions we receive from KMP and EPB, which could have a material adverse impact on us or our cash available for dividends to our stockholders.Our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit.Adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, limiting our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities and reducing 46Table of Contentsour cash flows. Our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions.  Also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, any reduction in our credit ratings could negatively impact the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, which could increase their cost of capital and negatively affect their business and operating results. Although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries’ debt instruments, as well as the market value of KMP’s and EPB’s common units.Current or future distressed financial conditions of our customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide.  Some of our customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness.  We cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations or future cash flows.  Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities.  In addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Terrorist attacks or “cyber security” events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business.The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or “cyber security” events.  These potential targets might include our pipeline systems or operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen.  The occurrence of one of these events could cause a substantial decrease in revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation or litigation and or inaccurate information reported from our operations.There is no assurance that adequate sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future.  These developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our pipelines business is dependent on the supply of and demand for the commodities transported by our pipelines. Our pipelines depend on production of natural gas, oil and other products in the areas served by our pipelines.  Without reserve additions, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted and production costs may rise.  Producers may shut down production at lower product prices or higher production costs, especially where the existing cost of production exceeds other extraction methodologies, such as in the Alberta Oil sands.  Producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our gas plants and pipelines may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput.  Commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourages producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire. Changes in the business environment, such as a decline in crude oil or natural gas prices, an increase in production costs from higher feedstock prices, supply disruptions, or higher development costs, could result in a slowing of supply from oil and natural gas producing areas.  In addition, changes in the regulatory environment or governmental policies may have an impact on the supply of crude oil and natural gas.  Each of these factors impact our customers shipping through our pipelines, which in turn could impact the prospects of new transportation contracts or renewals of existing contracts. Throughput on KMP’s and/or EPB’s pipelines also may decline as a result of changes in business conditions.  Over the long term, business will depend, in part, on the level of demand for oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products in the geographic areas in which deliveries are made by pipelines and the ability and willingness of shippers having access or rights to utilize the pipelines to supply such demand.The implementation of new regulations or the modification of existing regulations affecting the oil and gas industry could reduce demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products, increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  We cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel 47Table of Contentsconservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the demand for natural gas, crude oil and refined petroleum products.The future success of KMP’s oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon its ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted.  Without successful development activities, the reserves and revenues of the oil and gas producing assets within the CO2-KMP business segment will decline.  KMP may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future.  Additionally, if KMP does not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, its hedged volumes, it may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions.KMP’s development of oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. The business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome.  Acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative.  It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well.  Furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment.  A variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable.  A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well.  In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances.The volatility of natural gas and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on the CO2 -KMP business segment.The revenues, profitability and future growth of the CO2-KMP business segment and the carrying value of its oil, NGL and natural gas properties depend to a large degree on prevailing oil and gas prices.  For 2014, KMP estimates that every $1 change in the average WTI crude oil price per barrel would impact the CO2-KMP segment’s cash flows by approximately $7 million.  Prices for oil, NGL and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil, NGL and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond KMP’s control.  These factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the U.S.; (ii) the condition of the U.S. economy; (iii) the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political stability in the Middle East and elsewhere; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; and (viii) the availability of alternative fuel sources.A sharp decline in the prices of oil, NGL or natural gas would result in a commensurate reduction in KMP’s revenues, income and cash flows from the production of oil, NGL, and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of KMP’s proved reserves.  In the event prices fall substantially, KMP may not be able to realize a profit from its production and would operate at a loss.  In recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts.  Such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis.  These periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas.  The excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand.  These fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process.  For more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Energy Commodity Market Risk.”Our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. We engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas.  These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received.  In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas.48Table of ContentsThe accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes.  Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those statements.  In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely mitigate our exposure to commodity prices.  Our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge.  The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, referred to as the CFTC, and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the OTC derivatives market and entities that participate in that market.  The CFTC has proposed new rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that would institute broad new aggregate position limits for OTC swaps and futures and options traded on regulated exchanges.  As the law favors exchange trading and clearing, the Dodd-Frank Act also may require us to move certain derivatives transactions to exchanges where no trade credit is provided and also comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivatives activities that are not exchange traded, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time.  The Dodd-Frank Act also requires many counterparties to our derivatives instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty, or cause the entity to comply with the capital requirements, which could result in increased costs to counterparties such as us.  The Dodd-Frank Act and any related regulations could (i) significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including those requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity); (ii) reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter; and (iii) reduce the liquidity of energy related derivatives.If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.  Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors.  Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas.  Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Kinder Morgan Canada-KMP segment is subject to U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations. We are a U.S. dollar reporting company.  As a result of the operations of the Kinder Morgan Canada-KMP business segment, a portion of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars.  Fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars could expose us to reductions in the U.S. dollar value of our earnings and cash flows and a reduction in our stockholders’ equity under applicable accounting rules.Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in several industries, including the oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services.  Our operating results in one or more geographic regions also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region, such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the U.S. and Canada.  Volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us.  In addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil and NGL will have a negative impact on the results of the CO2-KMP business segment.  If global economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets), or economic conditions in the U.S. or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations.49Table of ContentsHurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters.  These natural disasters could potentially damage or destroy our pipelines, terminals and other assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport through our pipelines.  Natural disasters can similarly affect the facilities of our customers.  In either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  KMP’s and EPB’s tax treatment depends on their status as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states.  If KMP and/or EPB were treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if they were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then cash available for distribution to their partners, including us, would be substantially reduced. We own the general partner interests in both KMP and EPB and approximately 11% and 41% of the limited partner interests of KMP and of EPB, respectively.  The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of our investment in KMP and EPB depends largely on their treatment as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Neither KMP nor EPB has requested nor plans to request a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter. Despite the fact that KMP and EPB are organized as limited partnerships under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for partnerships such as KMP or EPB to be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Although neither KMP nor EPB believes, based on its current operations, that it is or will be so treated, the IRS could disagree with the positions KMP or EPB takes or a change in KMP’s or EPB’s business (or a change in current law) could cause them to be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject them to taxation as an entity. If they were treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, they would pay U.S. federal income tax on taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income taxes at varying rates.  Distributions by KMP and EPB to their partners, including us, would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of their current and accumulated earnings and profits) and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to their partners, including us.  Because tax would be imposed on KMP and EPB as corporations, their after-tax cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the dividends we could pay and in the value of our common stock. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including KMP and EPB, or an investment in them may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time.  Moreover, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that could affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships.  We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted.  In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation.  Any state income taxes imposed upon KMP or EPB as entities would reduce their cash available to be distributed to us.  Any modification to the U.S. federal income or state tax laws, or interpretations thereof, may be applied retroactively and could negatively impact the value of our investment in KMP and EPB.KMP’s and EPB’s partnership agreements provide that if a law is enacted that subjects them to corporate taxation or otherwise subjects them to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amounts and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact.If KMP’s or EPB’s unitholders remove their respective general partner, we would lose our general partner interest in either KMP or EPB, including the right to incentive distributions, and the ability to manage them.We own the general partners of KMP and EPB and with respect to KMP, all of the voting shares of KMR, to which the general partner has delegated its rights and powers to control the business and affairs of KMP, subject to the approval of the general partner for certain actions.  KMP’s and EPB’s partnership agreements, however, give their respective unitholders the right to remove their general partner if (i) the holders of 66 2⁄3% of the respective partnership’s outstanding units (including the common units, Class B units and i-units, as applicable) voting as a single class vote for such removal; (ii) the holders of KMP’s and EPB’s outstanding units approve the election and succession of a new general partner by the same vote, respectively; and 50Table of Contents(iii) KMP and/ or EPB receives opinion of counsel that the removal and succession of the general partner would not result in the loss of the limited liability of any limited partner or its operating partnership subsidiaries or cause either KMP or EPB or its operating partnership subsidiaries to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If KMP’s or EPB’s unitholders removed their respective general partner, the general partner would lose its ability to manage KMP or EPB, and with respect to KMP, the delegation of authority to KMR by KMP’s general partner would terminate at the same time. The general partner would receive cash or common units in exchange for its general partner interest. While the cash or common units the general partner would receive are intended under the terms of KMP’s and EPB’s partnership agreements to fully compensate us, as the owner of the general partner, in the event such an exchange is required, the value of the investments we might make with the cash or the common units may not over time be equivalent to the value of the general partner interest and the related incentive distributions had the general partner retained its general partner interest.If in the future KMR and the general partner cease to manage and control KMP, with respect to KMP and EPB’s general partner ceases to manage and control EPB either limited partnership may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.If our subsidiaries, KMR and KMGP, which is the general partner of KMP, cease to manage and control KMP, or, El Paso Pipeline GP, L.L.C. ceases to manage and control EPB, either or both KMP and EPB may be deemed to be investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  In that case, KMP and/or EPB would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify their organizational structure or contractual rights so as to fall outside the definition of an investment company.  Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us and our affiliates, and could adversely affect the price of our common stock.If we are unable to retain our executive officers, our growth may be hindered.Our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard D. Kinder, who is also one of our founders.  Along with the other members of our senior management, Mr. Kinder has been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy since 1997.  If we are not successful in retaining Mr. Kinder or our other executive officers or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.  We do not maintain key personnel insurance.Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common StockThe price of the common stock may be volatile, and holders of our common stock could lose a significant portion of their investments.The market price of the common stock could be volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased the common stock due to fluctuations in the market price of the common stock, including changes in price caused by factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects.Specific factors that may have a significant effect on the market price for the common stock include: (i) changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding the common stock, the common units of KMP and EPB, other companies comparable to us or KMP and EPB or companies in the industries we serve; (ii) actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; (iii) reaction to our public announcements; (iv) strategic actions taken by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; (v) the recruitment or departure of key personnel; (vi) new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business and operations; (vii) changes in tax or accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (viii) adverse conditions in the financial markets or general U.S. or international economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; (ix) sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or significant stockholders; and (x) the extent of analysts’ interest in following our company. 51Table of ContentsNon-U.S. holders of our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to gain on the disposition of our common stock.If we are or have been a ‘’U.S. real property holding corporation’’ within the meaning of the Code at any time within the shorter of (i) the five-year period preceding a disposition of our common stock by a non-U.S. holder, or (ii) such holder’s holding period for such common stock, and assuming our common stock is ‘’regularly traded,’’ as defined by applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, on an established securities market, the non-U.S. holder may be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to gain on such disposition if it held more than 5% of our common stock during the shorter of periods (i) and (ii) above.  We believe we are, or may become, a U.S. real property holding corporation.Risks Related to Our Dividend PolicyHolders of our common stock may not receive the anticipated level of dividends under our dividend policy or any dividends at all.Our dividend policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by a majority vote of our board of directors, including for general and administrative expenses, interest and cash taxes.  However, our board of directors, subject to the requirements of our bylaws and other governance documents, may amend, revoke or suspend our dividend policy at any time, and even while the current policy is in place, the actual amount of dividends on our capital stock will depend on many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity requirements, market opportunities, capital requirements of our subsidiaries, legal, regulatory and contractual constraints, tax laws and other factors.  Dividends other than as provided in our dividend policy require supermajority board approval while the Sponsor Investors maintain prescribed ownership thresholds. Over time, our capital and other cash needs may change significantly from our current needs, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the amount of any dividends we may pay in the future.  The terms of any future indebtedness we incur also may restrict us from paying cash dividends on our stock under certain circumstances.  A decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result if our board of directors establishes large reserves that reduce the amount of quarterly dividends paid or if we reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends.  This may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial.The general partners of KMP and EPB, with our consent but without the consent of our stockholders, may take steps to support KMP and EPB that have the effect of reducing cash we have or are entitled to receive, thereby reducing the cash we have available to pay dividends.We utilize KMP and EPB as our vehicles for growth.  We have historically received a significant portion of our cash flows from incentive distributions on the general partner interest.  As the owner of the general partner of KMP, and now EPB, we may take steps we judge beneficial to KMP’s and EPB’s growth that in the short-run reduce the cash we receive and have available to pay dividends.  The board of directors of the general partner of KMP or EPB may determine to support a desirable acquisition that may not be immediately accretive to cash available for distribution per KMP or EPB unit.  For example, KMP’s general partner, with our consent, waived its incentive distributions from the second quarter of 2010 through 2011 on common units issued to finance a portion of KMP’s acquisition of the initial 50% interest in the KinderHawk joint venture and has agreed to waive its paid incentive distributions of $27 million and $4 million for 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, respectively, on common units issued to finance a portion of KMP’s subsequent acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the KinderHawk joint venture.  In addition, in connection with KMP’s acquisition of Copano, KMP’s general partner has agreed to waive incentive distributions of $75 million for 2013, $120 million for both 2014 and 2015, $110 million for 2016 and annual amounts thereafter decreasing by $5 million per year from this level.Our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities above the limited partnership level or impair our financial flexibility.If we pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth opportunities above the limited partnership level, meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements or fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn.  In addition, because of the dividends required under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business above the limited partnership level, including through acquisitions, increased capital spending or other increases of our expenditures, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing.  We cannot assure our stockholders that such financing will be available to 52Table of Contentsus at all, or at an acceptable cost.  If we are unable to take timely advantage of growth opportunities, our future financial condition and competitive position may be harmed, which in turn may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  If we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay dividends.All of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, and our cash flow and our ability to satisfy obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries.  In addition, our joint ventures and some of our subsidiaries, such as our limited partnerships, are not wholly owned by us.  When funds are distributed to us by such joint ventures and subsidiaries, funds also will be distributed to their other owners.Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and has no obligation to transfer funds to us.  A number of our subsidiaries are a party to credit facilities and are or may in the future be a party to other borrowing agreements that restrict the payment of dividends to us, and such subsidiaries are likely to continue to be subject to such restrictions and prohibitions for the foreseeable future.  In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions will depend on their respective operating results and may be subject to further restrictions under, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization.The board of directors of KMR, which is the delegate of KMP’s general partner, and EPB’s general partner have broad authority to establish cash reserves for the prudent conduct of their businesses.  The establishment of those reserves could result in smaller distributions to us and a corresponding reduction of our cash available for dividends and our anticipated dividend level.  Further, the calculation of KMP’s and EPB’s available cash for distribution is discretionary and subject to the approval of the board of directors of KMR or EPB’s general partner, respectively taking into consideration their constituent agreements.  Similarly, while the constituent agreements of NGPL provide that it is the intention of NGPL to make distributions of available cash, we own less than a majority of NGPL and do not control it.  The same is true for joint ventures in which our limited partnerships own an interest.The distributions we receive from KMP are largely attributable to the incentive distributions on our general partner interest.  The distributions we receive are not as large if KMP distributes cash from interim capital transactions rather than cash from operations, or if KMP’s general partner waives receipt of a portion of those incentive distributions.As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to receive cash through distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries in sufficient amounts to pay dividends on our common stock.  If we are unable to authorize the payment of dividends due to insufficient cash, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result.  This may in turn result in losses by our stockholders, which could be substantial.Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by Delaware law.Under the DGCL, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of surplus, as calculated in accordance with the DGCL, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.  Our bylaws require the declaration and payment of dividends to comply with the DGCL.  If, as a result of these restrictions, we are unable to authorize payment of dividends, a decline in the market price or liquidity, or both, of our common stock could result.  This may in turn result in losses by our stockholders.Risks Related to Conflicts of InterestKMP, EPB and their subsidiaries may compete with us.Neither of KMP, EPB or any of their subsidiaries or entities in which they own an interest is restricted from competing with us.  KMR manages KMP (subject to certain decisions requiring the approval of KMP’s general partner) and EPB’s general partner manages EPB, in what they consider to be the best interests of their respective limited partner interests.  KMP, EPB and their subsidiaries may acquire, invest in or construct assets that may be in direct competition with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.  Among other things, we and our limited partnerships have a policy that acquisition opportunities of businesses or operating assets will be pursued above the limited partnership level only if KMP and EPB elect not to pursue the opportunity.53Table of ContentsMany of our directors and officers also serve as directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, including KMR and EPB, or entities in which we own an interest, such as NGPL, as a result of which conflicts of interest exist and will arise in the future.Many of our directors and officers are also directors or officers of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries.   Any officer or director of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries, who is also a director or officer of ours, in making decisions in such person’s capacity as our officer or director, is required to act in accordance with his or her fiduciary duties to us.  However, in making decisions in such person’s capacity as a director or officer of one of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries or such other entities, such person may make a decision that favors the interests of such subsidiary over our interests or the interests of our stockholders and may be to our detriment.  Further, the organizational documents of these entities may have provisions reducing or eliminating the duties of their officers or directors to those entities and their owners, including us.  In addition, our directors are not required to work full time on our business and affairs and may devote significant time to the affairs of our non-wholly owned subsidiaries.  There could be material competition for the time and effort of our directors who provide services to our non-wholly owned subsidiaries.Item 1B