Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors.”  We caution investors not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements as these statements speak only as of the date when made.  We disclaim any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements made in this report.
		
		
			Item 1.  Business.
		
		
			BUSINESS OVERVIEW
		
		
			CarMax Background
		
		
			CarMax, Inc. seeks to deliver an unrivaled customer experience by offering a broad selection of high quality used vehicles and related products and services at low, no-haggle prices using a customer-friendly sales process in an attractive, modern sales facility.  Our strategy is to revolutionize the used auto retailing market by addressing the major sources of customer dissatisfaction with traditional auto retailers.  By focusing on customer service, associate development and efficient execution, we have become the nation’s largest retailer of used cars, selling 582,282 used vehicles at retail during the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015.  In addition, we are one of the nation’s largest operators of wholesale vehicle auctions and one of the nation’s largest providers of used vehicle financing.
		
		

		
		 

		

			4

		

 

		

			 

		


		CarMax was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1996.  CarMax, Inc. is a holding company and our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries.  Under the ownership of Circuit City Stores, Inc. (“Circuit City”), we began operations in 1993 with the opening of our first CarMax store in Richmond, Virginia.  On October 1, 2002, the CarMax business was separated from Circuit City through a tax-free transaction, becoming an independent, publicly traded company.  As of February 28, 2015, we operated 144 used car stores in 73 metropolitan markets.  Our home office is located at 12800 Tuckahoe Creek Parkway, Richmond, Virginia.
		
		
			CarMax Business
		
		
			We operate in two reportable segments:  CarMax Sales Operations and CarMax Auto Finance (“CAF”).  Our CarMax Sales Operations segment consists of all aspects of our auto merchandising and service operations, excluding financing provided by CAF.  Our CAF segment consists solely of our own finance operation that provides vehicle financing through CarMax stores.
		
		
			CarMax Sales Operations.    Our CarMax Sales Operations segment sells used vehicles, purchases used vehicles from customers and other sources, sells related products and services, and arranges financing options for customers, all for fixed, no-haggle prices. We enable our customers to separately evaluate each component of the sales process based on comprehensive information about the terms and associated prices of each component. Customers can accept or decline any individual element of the offer without affecting the price or terms of any other component of the offer.
		
		
			Purchasing a Vehicle: 
		
		
			The vehicle purchase process in a CarMax store differs fundamentally from the traditional auto retail experience.  Our no-haggle pricing removes a frequent customer frustration with the purchase process and allows customers to shop for vehicles the same way they shop for items at other “big-box” retailers.  In addition, our sales consultants are generally paid commissions on a fixed dollars-per-unit standard, thereby earning the same commission regardless of the vehicle being sold, the amount a customer finances or the related interest rate. This pay structure aligns our sales associates’ interests with those of our customers, in contrast to other dealerships where sales and finance personnel may receive higher commissions for negotiating higher prices and interest rates, or steering customers to vehicles with higher gross profits.
		
		
			We recondition every used vehicle we retail to meet our CarMax Quality Certified standards, and each vehicle must pass a comprehensive inspection before being offered for sale.  We stand behind every used vehicle we sell with a 5-day, money-back guarantee and at least a 30-day limited warranty.
		
		
			We maximize customer choice by offering a large selection of inventory on our lots and by making our nationwide inventory of more than 60,000 vehicles as of February 28, 2015, available for viewing on our website, carmax.com, as well as our mobile apps.  Upon request by a customer, we will transfer virtually any used vehicle in this inventory to a local store.  This allows a single CarMax store to offer access to a much larger selection of vehicles than any traditional auto retailer.  In fiscal 2015, 31% of our vehicles sold were transferred at customer request. 
		
		
			In addition to retailing used vehicles, we sell new vehicles at four locations under franchise agreements with three new car manufacturers.  In fiscal 2015, new vehicles comprised 1% of our total retail vehicle unit sales.  
		
		
			Selling us a Vehicle:
		
		
			We have separated the practice of trading in a used vehicle in conjunction with the purchase of another vehicle into two distinct and independent transactions.  We will appraise a customer’s vehicle free of charge and make a written, guaranteed offer to buy that vehicle regardless of whether the owner is purchasing a vehicle from us.  This no-haggle offer is good for seven days.  
		
		
			Based on their age, mileage or condition, fewer than half of the vehicles acquired through our in-store appraisal process meet our retail standards.  Those vehicles that do not meet our retail standards are sold to licensed dealers through our on-site wholesale auctions.  Unlike many other auto auctions, we own all the vehicles that we sell in our auctions, which allows us to maintain a high auction sales rate. This high sales rate, combined with dealer-friendly practices, makes our auctions an attractive source of vehicles for licensed dealers.    As of February 28, 2015, we conducted wholesale auctions at 62 of our 144 stores.  During fiscal 2015, we sold 376,186 wholesale vehicles through these on-site auctions in fiscal 2015 with an average auction sales rate of 97%.
		
		
			Financing a Vehicle: 
		
		
			The availability of on-the-spot financing is a critical component of the vehicle purchase process, and having an array of finance sources increases approvals, expands finance opportunities for our customers and mitigates risk to 
		
		 

		

			5

		

 

		

			 

		


		CarMax.  Our finance program provides access to credit for customers across a wide range of the credit spectrum through both CAF and third-party providers.  We believe that our processes and systems, transparency of pricing, and vehicle quality, as well as the integrity of the information collected at the time the customer applies for credit, allow CAF and our third-party providers to make underwriting decisions in a unique and advantageous environment distinct from the traditional auto retail environment.  All finance offers, whether from CAF or our third-party providers, are backed by a 3‑day payoff option, which allows customers to refinance their loan with another finance provider within three business days at no charge.  
		
		
			Related Products and Services:    
		
		
			We provide customers with a range of other related products and services, including extended protection plan (“EPP”) products and vehicle repair service. EPP products include extended service plans (“ESPs”) and guaranteed asset protection (“GAP”), which is designed to cover the unpaid balance on an auto loan in the event of a total loss of the vehicle or unrecovered theft.  Our ESP customers have access to vehicle repair service at each CarMax store and at thousands of independent and franchised service providers.  We believe that the broad scope of our ESPs, helps promote customer satisfaction and loyalty, and thus increases the likelihood of repeat and referral business.  In fiscal 2015, more than 60% of the customers who purchased a retail vehicle also purchased an ESP and more than 25% purchased GAP.
		
		
			CarMax Auto Finance.    CAF provides financing solely to customers of CarMax.  CAF allows us to manage our reliance on third-party finance providers and to leverage knowledge of our business to provide customers with a competitive financing option.  CAF utilizes proprietary scoring models based upon the credit history of the customer along with CAF’s historical experience to predict the likelihood of customer repayment.  Because CAF offers financing solely through CarMax stores, our scoring models are optimized for the CarMax channel.  We believe CAF enables us to capture additional profits, cash flows and sales.  After the effect of 3-day payoffs and vehicle returns, CAF financed 41.2% of our retail vehicle unit sales in fiscal 2015.
		
		
			CAF also services all auto loans it originates and is responsible for providing billing statements, collecting payments, maintaining contact with delinquent customers, and arranging for the repossession of vehicles securing defaulted loans.  As of February 28, 2015, CAF serviced approximately 619,000 customer accounts in its $8.46 billion portfolio of managed receivables. 
		
		
			Competition  
		
		
			CarMax Sales Operations. The U.S. used car marketplace is highly fragmented and competitive.  According to industry sources, as of December 31, 2014, there were approximately 18,000 franchised automotive dealerships, which sell both new and used vehicles.  In addition, used vehicles were sold by more than 35,000 independent used vehicle dealers, as well as millions of private individuals.  Our primary retail competitors are franchised auto dealers, who sell the majority of late-model used vehicles.  Competition in our industry is increasingly affected by the use of Internet-based marketing and other Internet-based tools for both consumers and the dealers with whom we compete. 
		
		
			Based on industry data, there were approximately 39 million used cars sold in the U.S. in calendar 2014, of which approximately 21 million were estimated to be 0- to 10-year old vehicles.  While we are the largest retailer of used vehicles in the U.S., in calendar 2014 we sold approximately 5% of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold in the markets for which we operate, and less than 3% of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold nationwide.
		
		
			We believe that our principal competitive advantages in used vehicle retailing include our ability to provide a high degree of customer satisfaction with the car-buying experience by virtue of our low, no-haggle prices and our customer-friendly sales process; our breadth of selection of the most popular makes and models available on site and via carmax.com and our mobile apps; the quality of our vehicles; our proprietary information systems; the transparency and availability of CAF and third-party financing; and the locations of our retail stores.  In addition, we believe our willingness to appraise and purchase a customer’s vehicle, whether or not the customer is buying a car from us, provides a competitive sourcing advantage for retail vehicles.  Our high volume of appraisal purchases supplies not only a large portion of our retail inventory, but also provides the scale that enables us to conduct our own wholesale auctions to dispose of vehicles that do not meet our retail standards.
		
		
			Our wholesale auctions compete with other automotive auction houses.  In contrast to the highly fragmented used vehicle retail market, the automotive auction market has two primary competitors, Manheim, a subsidiary of Cox Enterprises, and KAR Auction Services, Inc., who together represent an estimated 70% of the North American wholesale car auction market.  These competitors auction vehicles of all ages, while CarMax’s auctions predominantly sell older, higher mileage vehicles.    
		
		

		
		 

		

			6

		

 

		

			 

		


		CarMax Auto Finance. CAF operates in the auto finance sector of the consumer finance market.  This sector is primarily comprised of banks, captive finance divisions of new car manufacturers, credit unions and independent finance companies.  According to industry sources, this sector represented nearly $900 billion in outstanding receivables as of December 31, 2014.  CAF’s primary competitors are banks and credit unions that offer direct financing to customers purchasing used cars.  For loans originated during the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2014, industry sources ranked CAF 7th in market share for used vehicle loans and 14th in market share for all vehicle loans.    
		
		
			We believe that CAF’s principal competitive advantage is its strategic position as the primary finance source in CarMax stores and that CAF’s primary driver for growth is the growth in CarMax’s retail unit sales.  We periodically test different credit offers, and closely monitor acceptance rates and the effect on sales to assess market competitiveness.  We also monitor 3-day payoffs, as the percentage of customers exercising this option can be an indication of the competitiveness of our rates.
		
		
			Products and Services
		
		
			Retail Merchandising.  We offer customers a broad selection of makes and models of used vehicles, including both domestic and imported vehicles, at competitive prices.  Our focus is vehicles that are 0 to 10 years old and generally range in price from $12,000 to $34,000.  The mix of our used vehicle inventory by make, model and age will vary from time to time, depending on consumer preferences.
		
		
			Wholesale Auctions.  The typical vehicle sold at our wholesale auctions is approximately 10 years old and has more than 100,000 miles.  We provide condition disclosures on each vehicle, including those for vehicles with major mechanical issues, possible frame or flood damage, branded titles, salvage history and unknown true mileage.  Professional, licensed auctioneers conduct our auctions.  Dealers pay a fee to us based on the sales price of the vehicles they purchase.  Our auctions are generally held on a weekly or bi-weekly basis.  
		
		
			 
		
		
			Extended Protection Plans.  At the time of sale, we offer customers EPP products.  We sell these plans on behalf of unrelated third parties, who are the primary obligors, and in return receive commission income.  We have no contractual liability to customers for claims under these agreements.  The ESPs we currently offer on all used vehicles provide coverage up to 60 months (subject to mileage limitations).  GAP covers the customer for the term of their finance contract.  All EPPs that we sell (other than manufacturer programs on new car sales) have been designed to our specifications and are administered by the third parties through private-label arrangements.  Periodically, we may receive additional commissions based upon the level of underwriting profits of the third parties who administer the products. 
		
		
			Reconditioning and Service.  An integral part of our used car consumer offer is the reconditioning process designed to make sure every car meets our standards before it can become a CarMax Quality Certified vehicle.  This process includes a comprehensive CarMax Quality Inspection of the engine and all major systems.  Based on this inspection, we determine the reconditioning necessary to bring the vehicle up to our quality standards.  Many of our stores depend upon nearby, typically larger, CarMax stores for reconditioning, which increases efficiency and reduces overhead.  We perform most routine mechanical and minor body repairs in-house; however, for some reconditioning services, we engage third parties specializing in those services
		
		
			In addition, all CarMax used car stores provide vehicle repair service, including repairs of vehicles covered by the ESPs we sell.  
		
		
			Customer Credit.  We offer financing alternatives for retail customers across a wide range of the credit spectrum through CAF and arrangements with several financial institutions.  Vehicles are financed using retail installment contracts secured by the vehicle.  As of February 28, 2015, our third-party finance providers included Santander Consumer USA, Wells Fargo Dealer Services, Exeter Finance Corp, Capital One Auto Finance, Ally Financial Inc., American Credit Acceptance and Westlake Financial Services.  We have no recourse liability for credit losses on retail installment contracts arranged with third-party providers and periodically test additional third-party providers.  
		
		
			All credit applications submitted by customers at CarMax stores are initially reviewed by CAF.   Applications that are declined or conditionally approved by CAF are generally evaluated by other third-party finance providers.  These providers generally either pay us or are paid a fixed, pre-negotiated fee per contract.  We refer to the providers who pay us a fee as Tier 2 providers and we refer to providers to whom we pay a fee as Tier 3 providers.  We are willing to pay a fee to Tier 3 providers because we believe their participation provides us with incremental sales by enabling customers to secure financing that they may not otherwise be able to obtain.  All fees paid by Tier 2 providers and paid to Tier 3 providers are pre-negotiated at a fixed amount and do not vary based on the amount 
		
		 

		

			7

		

 

		

			 

		


		financed, the interest rate, the term of the loan or the loan-to-value ratio.  As part of our previously disclosed loan origination test, CAF currently provides financing for a small percentage of customers who would typically be financed by a Tier 3 provider.
		
		
			We do not offer financing to dealers purchasing vehicles at our wholesale auctions.  However, we have made arrangements to have third-party financing available to our auction customers.
		
		
			Suppliers for Used Vehicles  
		
		
			We acquire a significant percentage of our retail used vehicle inventory directly from consumers through our appraisal process, as well as through other sources, including local, regional and online auctions. We also, to a lesser extent, acquire used vehicle inventory from wholesalers, franchised and independent dealers and fleet owners, such as leasing companies and rental companies.  The used vehicle inventory we acquire directly from consumers through our appraisal process helps provide an inventory of makes and models that reflects consumer preferences in each market.  
		
		
			The supply of late-model used vehicles is influenced by a variety of factors, including the total number of vehicles in operation; the rate of new vehicle sales, which in turn generate used car trade-ins, and the number of used vehicles sold or remarketed through retail channels, wholesale transactions and at automotive auctions.  According to industry sources, there were approximately 250 million light vehicles in operation in the U.S. as of December 31, 2014.  During calendar year 2014, more than 16 million new cars and 39 million used cars were sold at retail, many of which were accompanied by trade-ins, and more than 9 million vehicles were sold at wholesale auctions.
		
		
			Based on the large number of vehicles remarketed each year, consumer acceptance of our in-store appraisal process, our experience and success in acquiring vehicles from auctions and other sources, and the large size of the U.S. auction market relative to our needs, we believe that sources of used vehicles will continue to be sufficient to meet our current and future needs.
		
		
			Seasonality 
		
		
			Historically, our business has been seasonal.  Our stores typically experience their strongest traffic and sales in the spring and summer quarters.  Sales are typically slowest in the fall quarter.  We typically experience an increase in traffic and sales in February and March, coinciding with tax refund season.
		
		
			Systems
		
		
			Our stores are supported by proprietary information systems that improve the customer experience while providing tightly integrated automation of all operating functions, including our credit processing information system.  Our proprietary store technology provides our management with real-time information about many aspects of store operations, such as inventory management, pricing, vehicle transfers, wholesale auctions and sales consultant productivity.
		
		
			Our proprietary centralized inventory management and pricing system tracks each vehicle throughout the sales process and allows us to buy the mix of makes, models, age, mileage and price points tailored to customer buying preferences at each CarMax location.  Leveraging our more than twenty years of experience buying and selling millions of used vehicles, our system generates recommended initial retail price points, as well as retail price markdowns for specific vehicles based on algorithms that take into account factors that include sales history, consumer interest and seasonal patterns.  We believe this systematic approach to vehicle pricing allows us to optimize inventory turns, which reduces the depreciation risk inherent in used cars and helps us to achieve our targeted gross profit dollars per unit.  Because of the pricing discipline afforded by our inventory management and pricing system, generally more than 99% of our entire used car inventory offered at retail is sold at retail.
		
		
			Marketing and Advertising 
		
		
			Our marketing strategies are focused on developing awareness of the advantages of shopping at our stores and on carmax.com and on attracting customers who are already considering buying or selling a vehicle.  We implement these strategies through both traditional and digital methods, including social media.  Our carmax.com website and related mobile apps are marketing tools for communicating the CarMax consumer offer in detail, sophisticated search engines for finding the right vehicle and sales channels for customers who prefer to initiate part of the shopping and sales process online.  The website and mobile apps also include a variety of other customer service features including initiation of vehicle transfers and scheduling appointments.  Information on the thousands of cars available in our nationwide inventory is updated several times per day.  Our survey data indicates that during fiscal 2015, approximately 89% of customers who purchased a vehicle from us had first visited us online.
		
		

		
		 

		

			8

		

 

		

			 

		


		Associates
		
		
			On February 28, 2015, we had a total of 22,064 full- and part-time associates, including 16,049 hourly and salaried associates and 6,015 sales associates, who worked on a commission basis.  We employ additional associates during peak selling seasons.  We believe we have created a unique corporate culture and maintain good employee relations.  No associate is subject to a collective bargaining agreement.  We focus on developing our associates and providing them with the information and resources they need to offer exceptional customer service and have been recognized for the success of our efforts by a number of external organizations.
		
		
			Intellectual Property
		
		
			Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy.  Our principal trademarks, including CarMax and the related family of marks, have been registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Laws and Regulations
		
		
			Vehicle Dealer and Other Laws and Regulations.    We operate in a highly regulated industry.  In every state in which we operate, we must obtain licenses and permits to conduct business, including dealer, service, sales and finance licenses issued by state and local regulatory authorities.  A wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the manner in which we conduct business, including advertising, sales, financing and employment practices.  These laws include consumer protection laws, privacy laws and state franchise laws, as well as other laws and regulations applicable to new and used motor vehicle dealers.  These laws also include federal and state wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws.  Our financing activities with customers are subject to federal truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, equal credit opportunity and fair credit reporting laws and regulations, all of which are subject to enforcement by the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or Federal Trade Commission, as well as state and local motor vehicle finance, collection, repossession and installment finance laws. 
		
		
			Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals or governmental authorities and could expose us to significant damages or other penalties, including revocation or suspension of the licenses necessary to conduct business and fines.
		
		
			Environmental Laws and Regulations.  We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations that pertain to the environment.  Our business involves the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, including motor oil, gasoline, solvents, lubricants, paints and other substances.  We are subject to compliance with regulations concerning, among other things, the operation of underground and above-ground gasoline storage tanks, gasoline dispensing equipment, above-ground oil tanks and automotive paint booths.
		
		
			Financial Information
		
		
			For financial information on our segments, see Item 6. Selected Financial Data, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplemental Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
		
		
			Availability of Reports and Other Information
		
		
			The following items are available free of charge through the “Corporate Governance” link on our investor information home page at investors.carmax.com, shortly after we file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”): annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A, and any amendments to those reports.  The following documents are also available free of charge on our website: Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of the Audit, Nominating and Governance, and Compensation and Personnel Committees.  We publish any changes to these documents on our website.  We also promptly disclose reportable waivers of the Code of Business Conduct on our website.  The contents of our website are not, however, part of this report.
		
		
			Printed copies of these documents are also available to any shareholder, without charge, upon written request to our corporate secretary at the address set forth on the cover page of this report.
		
		
			
		
		 

		

			9

		

 

		

			 

		


		
		
		
			Item 1A.  Risk Factors.
		
		
			We are subject to a variety of risks, the most significant of which are described below.  Our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.
		
		
			We operate in a highly competitive industry.  Failure to develop and execute strategies to remain the nation’s preferred retailer of used vehicles and to adapt to the increasing use of the Internet to market, buy and sell used vehicles could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Automotive retailing is a highly competitive and highly fragmented business.  Our competition includes publicly and privately owned new and used car dealers, as well as millions of private individuals.   Competitors buy and sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that we offer in the same or similar markets at competitive prices.  New car dealers in particular, including publicly-traded auto retailers, have increased their sales of used vehicles in recent years.  These new car dealers also leverage their franchise relationships with automotive manufacturers to brand certain used cars as “certified pre-owned,” which could provide those competitors with an advantage over CarMax.    
		
		
			Some of our competitors have announced plans for rapid expansion, including into markets with CarMax locations and some of them have begun to execute those plans.  Some of our competitors have also replicated or attempted to replicate portions of the consumer offer that we pioneered when we opened our first used car store in 1993, including our use of low, no-haggle prices and our commitment to buy a customer’s vehicle even if they do not purchase one from us.  
		
		
			The increasing use of the Internet to market, buy and sell used vehicles and to provide vehicle financing could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.  The increasing online availability of used vehicle information, including pricing information, could make it more difficult for us to differentiate our customer offering from competitors’ offerings, could result in lower-than-expected retail margins, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. In addition, our competitive standing is affected by companies, including search engines and online classified sites, that are not direct competitors but that may direct on-line traffic to the websites of competing automotive retailers.  The increasing activities of these companies could make it more difficult for carmax.com to attract traffic.  These companies could also make it more difficult for CarMax otherwise to market its vehicles online.
		
		
			The increasing use of the Internet to facilitate consumers’ sales or trade-ins of their current vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our ability to source vehicles through our appraisal process, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our vehicle acquisition costs and results of operations.  For example, certain websites provide on-line appraisal tools to consumers that generate offers and facilitate purchases by dealers other than CarMax.  The popularity of these tools appears to be increasing.   
		
		
			In addition to the direct competition and increasing use of the Internet described above, there are companies that sell software solutions to new and used car dealers to enable those dealers to, among other things, more efficiently source and price inventory.  Although these companies do not compete with CarMax, the increasing use of such products by dealers who compete with CarMax could reduce the relative competitive advantage of CarMax’s internally developed proprietary systems.
		
		
			If any of these trends continue, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			Our CAF segment is subject to competition from various financial institutions, including banks and credit unions, which provide vehicle financing to consumers.  If we were unable to continue providing competitive finance offers to our customers through CAF, it could result in a greater percentage of sales financed through our third-party financing providers, which financings are generally less profitable to CarMax.  In addition, we believe that CAF allows us to capture additional sales.  Accordingly, if CAF was unable to continue making competitive finance offers to our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			CarMax was founded on the fundamental principle of integrity.  Failure to maintain a reputation of integrity and to otherwise maintain and enhance our brand could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			Our reputation as a company that is founded on the fundamental principle of integrity is critical to our success. Our reputation as a retailer offering low, no-haggle prices, a broad selection of CarMax Quality Certified used vehicles and superior customer service is also critical to our success.  If we fail to maintain the high standards on which our 
		
		 

		

			10

		

 

		

			 

		


		reputation is built, or if an event occurs that damages this reputation, it could adversely affect consumer demand and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Such an event could include an isolated incident at a single store, particularly if such incident results in adverse publicity, governmental investigations, or litigation and could involve, among other things, our sales process, our provision of financing, our reconditioning process, or our treatment of customers.  Even the perception of a decrease in the quality of our brand could impact results.  
		
		
			The growing use of social media increases the speed with which information and opinions can be shared and thus the speed with which reputation can be affected.  We monitor social media and attempt to address customer concerns, provide accurate information and protect our reputation, but there can be no guarantee that our efforts will succeed.  If we fail to correct or mitigate misinformation or negative information, including information spread through social media or traditional media channels, about the vehicles we offer, our customer experience, or any aspect of our brand, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			The automotive retail industry in general and our business in particular are sensitive to economic conditions.  These conditions could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.
		
		
			We are subject to national and regional U.S. economic conditions.  These conditions include, but are not limited to, recession, inflation, interest rates, unemployment levels, the state of the housing market, gasoline prices, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, personal discretionary spending levels, and consumer sentiment about the economy in general. These conditions and the economy in general could be affected by significant national or international events such as acts of terrorism.  When these economic conditions worsen or stagnate, it can have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for vehicles generally, including the used vehicles that we sell, and the availability of consumer credit to finance vehicle purchases.  This could result in lower sales, decreased margins on units sold, and decreased profits for our CAF segment. Worsening or stagnating economic conditions can also have a material adverse effect on the supply of late-model used vehicles, as automotive manufacturers produce fewer new vehicles and consumers retain their current vehicles for longer periods of time. This could result in increased costs to acquire used vehicle inventory and decreased margins on units sold. 
		
		
			 
		
		
			These dynamics were apparent in the difficult U.S. economic environment during the most recent recession, which adversely affected the automotive retail industry in general, including CarMax. While many of these indicators have improved more recently, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so or that improvements will result in benefits to our sales and results of operations. Any significant change or deterioration in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our business is dependent upon capital to fund growth and to support the activities of our CAF segment.  Changes in capital and credit markets could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.
		
		
			Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing, including the long-term financing to support our geographic expansion, could adversely affect sales, operating strategies and store growth.  Although we have financed recent geographic expansion primarily with internally generated cash flows, there can be no assurance that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flows to fund growth.  Failure to do so—or our decision to put our cash to other uses—would make us more dependent on external sources of financing to fund our geographic expansion.
		
		
			Changes in the availability or cost of the long-term financing to support the origination of auto loan receivables through CAF could adversely affect sales and results of operations.  We use a securitization program to fund substantially all of the auto loan receivables originated by CAF.  Changes in the condition of the asset-backed securitization market could lead us to incur higher costs to access funds in this market or require us to seek alternative means to finance CAF’s loan originations.  In the event that this market ceased to exist and there were no immediate alternative funding sources available, we might be forced to curtail our lending practices for some period of time.  The impact of reducing or curtailing CAF’s loan originations could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			Our revolving credit facility, term loan and certain securitization and sale-leaseback agreements contain covenants and performance triggers.  Any failure to comply with these covenants or performance triggers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
		
		

		
		 

		

			11

		

 

		

			 

		


		Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility.  If our ability to secure funds from the facility were significantly impaired, our access to working capital would be impacted, our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels could be affected and these conditions—especially if coupled with a failure to generate significant cash flows—could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.
		
		
			We rely on third-party financing providers to finance a significant portion of our customers’ vehicle purchases.  Accordingly, our sales and results of operations are partially dependent on the actions of these third parties.
		
		
			We provide financing to qualified customers through CAF and a number of third-party financing providers.  If one or more of these third-party providers cease to provide financing to our customers, provide financing to fewer customers or no longer provide financing on competitive terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Additionally, if we were unable to replace the current third-party providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			We rely on third-party providers to supply EPP products to our customers. Accordingly, our sales and results of operations are partially dependent on the actions of these third-parties.
		
		
			We sell EPP products on behalf of unrelated third-parties, who are the primary obligors, and in return we receive commission income. The third-parties that provide ESPs are CNA National Warranty Corporation and The Warranty Group. The third-party that provides GAP products is Safe-Guard Products International LLC. If one or more of these third-party providers cease to provide EPP products, make changes to their products or no longer provide their products on competitive terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Additionally, if we were unable to replace the current third-party providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our more than 22,000 associates.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our associates are the driving force behind our success.  We believe that one of the things that sets CarMax apart is a culture centered on valuing all associates.  Our failure to maintain this culture or to continue recruiting, developing and retaining the associates that drive our success could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Our ability to recruit associates while controlling related costs is subject to numerous external and internal factors, including unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, our growth plans, changes in employment legislation, and competition for qualified employees in the industry and regions in which we operate and for qualified service technicians in particular.  Our ability to recruit associates while controlling related costs is also subject to our ability to maintain positive associate relations.  If we are unable to do so, or if despite our efforts we become subject to successful unionization efforts, it could increase costs, limit our ability to respond to competitive threats and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Our success also depends upon the continued contributions of our store, region and corporate management teams.  Consequently, the loss of the services of any of these associates could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  In addition, an inability to build our management bench strength to support store growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			We collect sensitive confidential information from our customers.  A breach of this confidentiality, whether due to a cyber-security or other incident, could result in harm to our customers and damage to our brand.
		
		
			We collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information in the normal course of business and may share that information with our third-party service providers.  This information includes the information customers provide when purchasing a vehicle and applying for vehicle financing.  We also collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential associate information in the normal course of business and may share that information with our third-party service providers.  Although we have taken measures designed to safeguard such information and have received assurances from our third-party providers, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party providers, could be vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events.  Numerous national retailers have disclosed security breaches involving sophisticated cyber-attacks which were not recognized or detected until after such retailers had been affected, notwithstanding the preventive measures such retailers had in place.  Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer or 
		
		 

		

			12

		

 

		

			 

		


		associate information, whether experienced by us or by our third-party service providers, and whether due to an external cyber-security incident, a programming error, or other cause, could damage our reputation, expose us to mitigation costs and the risks of private litigation and government enforcement, disrupt our business, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  In addition, our failure to respond quickly and appropriately to such a security breach could exacerbate the consequences of the breach.
		
		
			Our business is sensitive to changes in the prices of new and used vehicles.
		
		
			Any significant changes in retail prices for new and used vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.  For example, if retail prices for used vehicles rise relative to retail prices for new vehicles, it could make buying a new vehicle more attractive to our customers than buying a used vehicle, which could have a material adverse effect on sales and results of operations and could result in decreased used margins.  Manufacturer incentives could contribute to narrowing this price gap.  In addition, any significant changes in wholesale prices for used vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by reducing wholesale margins.
		
		
			Our business is dependent upon access to vehicle inventory.  Obstacles to acquiring inventory—whether because of supply, competition, or other factors—or a failure to expeditiously liquidate that inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. 
		
		
			A reduction in the availability of or access to sources of inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Although the supply of late-model used vehicles appears to be increasing recently, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue or that it will benefit CarMax. 
		
		
			We source a significant percentage of our vehicles though our appraisal process and these vehicles are generally more profitable for CarMax.  Accordingly, if we fail to adjust appraisal offers to stay in line with broader market trade-in offer trends, or fail to recognize those trends, it could adversely affect our ability to acquire inventory.  It could also force us to purchase a greater percentage of our inventory from third-party auctions, which is generally less profitable for CarMax.  Our ability to source vehicles through our appraisal process could also be affected by competition, both from new and used car dealers directly and through third-party websites driving appraisal traffic to those dealers.  See the risk factor above titled “We operate in a highly competitive industry” for discussion of this risk.  Our ability to source vehicles from third-party auctions could be affected by an increase in the number of closed auctions that are open only to new car dealers who have franchise relationships with automotive manufacturers.
		
		
			Used vehicle inventory is subject to depreciation risk.  Accordingly, if we develop excess inventory, the inability to liquidate such inventory at prices that allow us to meet margin targets or to recover our costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.      
		
		
			We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations.  Changes in these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition.
		
		
			 
		
		
			We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations.  Our sale of used vehicles is subject to state and local licensing requirements, federal and state laws regulating vehicle advertising, and state laws regulating vehicle sales and service.  Our provision of vehicle financing is subject to federal and state laws regulating the provision of consumer finance.  Our facilities and business operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and health and safety.  In addition to these laws and regulations that apply specifically to our business, we are also subject to laws and regulations affecting public companies and large employers generally, including federal employment practices, securities and tax laws.  For additional discussion of these laws and regulations, see the section of this Form 10-K titled “Laws and Regulations.”
		
		
			The violation of any of these laws or regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties or in a cease-and-desist order against our business operations, any of which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  We have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenses and other costs to comply with these laws and regulations.  
		
		
			Recent federal legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms may result in an increase in expenses or a decrease in revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  For example, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) regulates, among other things, the provision of consumer financing.  The Dodd-Frank Act established a new federal agency, the Consumer 
		
		 

		

			13

		

 

		

			 

		


		Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), with broad regulatory powers over consumer financial products and activities.  In September 2014, the CFPB proposed to extend its supervisory authority to large nonbank auto finance companies, including CarMax.  We expect that the CFPB will seek to conduct supervisory examinations of nonbank auto finance companies like CarMax to ensure compliance with various federal consumer protection laws.  The evolving regulatory environment in the wake of the continued implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and the expansion of the CFPB’s authority may increase the cost of regulatory compliance or result in changes to business practices that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 
		
		
			The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as it is phased in over time, significantly affects the provision of health care services and will increase the costs we incur to provide our associates with health coverage.  Current federal labor policy could lead to increased unionization efforts, which could increase labor costs, disrupt store operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			Private plaintiffs and federal, state and local regulatory and law enforcement authorities continue to scrutinize advertising, sales, financing and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles.  If, as a result, other automotive retailers adopt more transparent, consumer-oriented business practices, our differentiation versus those retailers could be reduced.  See the risk factor titled “We operate in a highly competitive industry” for discussion of this risk.
		
		
			We are a growth retailer.  Our failure to manage our growth and the related challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			The expansion of our store base places significant demands on our management team, our associates and our information systems.  If we fail to effectively or efficiently manage our growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  The expansion of our store base also requires us to recruit and retain the associates necessary to support that expansion.  See the risk factor above titled “Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our more than 22,000 associates” for discussion of this risk.  The expansion of our store base also requires real estate.  Our inability to acquire or lease suitable real estate at favorable terms could limit our expansion and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
		
		
			If we are forced to curtail or stop growth it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.
		
		
			We rely on sophisticated information systems to run our business.  The failure of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			Our business is dependent upon the integrity and efficient operation of our information systems.  In particular, we rely on our information systems to manage sales, inventory, our customer-facing websites (carmax.com and carmaxauctions.com), consumer financing and customer information.  The failure of these systems to perform as designed, or the failure to maintain or update these systems as necessary, could disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.  
		
		
			In addition, despite our ongoing efforts to maintain and enhance the integrity and security of these systems, we could be subjected to attacks by hackers, including denial-of-service attacks directed at our websites or other system breaches or malfunctions due to associate error or misconduct or other disruptions.  Such incidents could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on sales and results of operations.  See the risk factor above titled “We collect sensitive confidential information from our customers” for the risks associated with a breach of confidential customer or associate information.
		
		
			We are subject to numerous legal proceedings.  If the outcomes of these proceedings are adverse to CarMax, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
		
		
			We are subject to various litigation matters from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings.  These claims could be asserted under a variety of laws, including but not limited to consumer finance laws, consumer protection laws, intellectual property laws, privacy laws, labor and employment laws, securities laws and employee benefit laws.  These actions could expose us to adverse publicity and to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including but not limited to suspension or revocation of licenses to conduct business.
		
		

		
		 

		

			14

		

 

		

			 

		


		Our business is sensitive to conditions affecting automotive manufacturers, including manufacturer recalls.
		
		
			Adverse conditions affecting one or more automotive manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations and could impact the supply of vehicles, including the supply of late-model used vehicles.  In addition, manufacturer recalls are a common occurrence that have recently accelerated in frequency and scope.  Recalls could adversely affect used vehicle sales or valuations, could cause us to temporarily remove vehicles from inventory, could force us to incur increased costs and could expose us to litigation and adverse publicity related to the sale of recalled vehicles, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to management’s accounting judgments and estimates, as well as changes in accounting policies.
		
		
			The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of CarMax’s assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and earnings. If these estimates or assumptions are incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the fair presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they involve major aspects of our business and require us to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain.  These policies are described in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8.
		
		
			The implementation of new accounting requirements or other changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition.
		
		
			Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.
		
		
			Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations.  We generally realize a higher proportion of revenue and operating profit during the first and second fiscal quarters.  If conditions arise that impair vehicle sales during the first or second fiscal quarters, these conditions could have a disproportionately large adverse effect on our annual results of operations.
		
		
			Our business is sensitive to weather events.
		
		
			The occurrence of severe weather events, such as rain, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, extended periods of unusually cold weather or natural disasters, could cause store closures or affect the timing of consumer demand, either of which could adversely affect consumer traffic and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations in a given period.
		
		
			We are subject to local conditions in the geographic areas in which we are concentrated.
		
		
			Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate.  Since a large portion of our sales is generated in the Southeastern U.S., including Florida, and in Texas, Southern California and Washington, D.C./Baltimore, our results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these markets.  In the event that any of these geographic areas experienced a downturn in economic conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.
		
		
			 
		
		
			Item 1B