Item 1A under
the heading “Risk Factors.”  We caution investors not to place undue
reliance on any forward-looking statements as these statements speak only as of
the date when made.  We undertake no obligation to update any
forward-looking statements made in this report.
       
      Item
1. Business.
       
      BUSINESS
OVERVIEW
      CarMax
Background.  CarMax, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of
the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1996.  CarMax, Inc. is a holding
company and our operations are conducted through our
subsidiaries.  Our home office is located at 12800 Tuckahoe Creek
Parkway, Richmond, Virginia.
       
      Under the
ownership of Circuit City Stores, Inc. (“Circuit City”), we began
operations in 1993 with the opening of our first CarMax superstore in Richmond,
Virginia.  In 1997, Circuit City completed the initial public
offering of a tracking stock, Circuit City Stores, Inc.–CarMax Group common
stock, which was intended to track separately the performance of the CarMax
operations.  On October 1, 2002, the CarMax business was separated
from Circuit City through a tax-free transaction, becoming an independent,
separately traded public company.
       
      CarMax
Business.  We are the nation’s largest retailer of used cars,
based on the 377,244 used vehicles we retailed during the fiscal year ended
February 29, 2008.  As of the end of fiscal 2008, we operated 89
used car superstores in 41 metropolitan markets.  In addition, we sold
222,406 wholesale vehicles in fiscal 2008 through on-site auctions.
       
      We were
the first used vehicle retailer to offer a large selection of high quality used
vehicles at competitively low, “no-haggle” prices using a customer-friendly
sales process in an attractive, modern sales facility.  The CarMax
consumer offer provides customers the opportunity to shop for vehicles the same
way they shop for items at other “big-box” retailers, and it is structured
around four customer benefits: low, no-haggle prices; a broad selection; high
quality vehicles and a customer-friendly sales process.  Our strategy
is to better serve the auto retailing market by addressing the major sources of
customer dissatisfaction with traditional auto retailers and to maximize
operating efficiencies through the use of standardized operating procedures and
store formats enhanced by sophisticated, proprietary management information
systems.
       
       
      
       
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          4
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      We
purchase, recondition and sell used vehicles.  All of the used
vehicles we retail are thoroughly reconditioned to meet high mechanical,
electrical, safety and cosmetic standards, and each vehicle must pass a
comprehensive inspection before being offered for sale.  Approximately
85% of the used vehicles we retail are 1 to 6 years old with fewer than 60,000
miles.  We also offer a selection of used vehicles at each superstore
that are more than 6 years old or have more than 60,000 miles, if they meet
similar quality standards.
       
      We also
sell new vehicles at five locations under franchise agreements with four new car
manufacturers (Chrysler, General Motors, Nissan and Toyota).  In
fiscal 2008, new vehicles comprised 4% of our total retail vehicle unit
sales.  As planned, new car sales have become an increasingly smaller
part of our business mix over the past several years as we have divested 15
new car franchises while we focused on growing our used car
business.
       
      We
provide customers with a full range of related products and services, including
the financing of vehicle purchases through CarMax Auto Finance (“CAF”), our own
finance operation, and third-party financing providers; the sale of extended
service plans and accessories; the appraisal and purchase of vehicles directly
from consumers; and vehicle repair service.
       
      The
CarMax consumer offer enables customers to evaluate separately each component of
the sales process and to make informed decisions based on comprehensive
information about the options, terms and associated prices of each
component.  The customer can accept or decline any individual element
of the offer without affecting the price or terms of any other component of the
offer.  Our no-haggle pricing and our commission structure, which is
generally based on a fixed dollars-per-unit standard, allow sales consultants to
focus solely on meeting customer needs.
       
      We have
separated the practice of trading in a used vehicle in conjunction with the
purchase of another vehicle into two distinct and independent
transactions.  We will appraise a consumer’s vehicle and make an offer
to buy that vehicle regardless of whether the owner is purchasing a vehicle from
us.  We acquire the majority of our retail used vehicle inventory
through this unique in-store appraisal process.  We also acquire a
significant portion of our used vehicle inventory through wholesale auctions
and, to a lesser extent, directly from other sources, including wholesalers,
dealers and fleet owners.  Vehicles purchased through our in-store
appraisal process that do not meet our retail standards are sold to licensed
dealers through on-site wholesale auctions.
       
      Our
inventory management and pricing system tracks each vehicle throughout the sales
process.  Using the information provided by this system and applying
sophisticated statistical modeling techniques, we are able to optimize our
inventory mix, anticipate future inventory needs at each store, evaluate sales
consultant and buyer performance and refine our vehicle pricing
strategy.  Because of the pricing discipline afforded by the inventory
management and pricing system, more than 99% of the entire used car inventory
offered at retail is sold at retail.
       
      Industry and
Competition.  With calendar year 2007 sales of approximately
$340 billion, used vehicles comprise nearly half of the U.S. auto retail market,
the largest retail segment of the economy.  In calendar 2007, there
were an estimated 41.4 million used vehicles sold in the U.S. compared with
approximately 16.2 million new vehicles.  Late-model vehicles that are
1 to 6 years old, our primary focus, are estimated at approximately $275 billion
in annual sales and 19 million units per year.
       
      The U.S.
used car marketplace is highly fragmented and competitive, and includes
approximately 21,500 franchised new car dealers and 43,000 independent used
car dealers, as well as millions of private individuals.  Our primary
competitors are the franchised new car dealers, who sell the majority of
late-model used vehicles.  Independent used car dealers predominantly
sell older, higher mileage cars than we do.  Competition has been
affected by the increasing use of Internet-based marketing for both used
vehicles and vehicle financing.  In both the used and new vehicle
markets, we seek to distinguish ourselves from traditional dealerships through
our consumer offer, sales approach and other innovative operating
strategies.
       
      We
believe that our principal competitive factors in used vehicle retailing are our
ability to provide a high degree of customer satisfaction with the car-buying
experience; our competitively low prices; our breadth of selection of the most
popular makes and models available both on site and via our website, carmax.com;
the quality of our vehicles; our proprietary information systems; and the
locations of our retail stores.  Upon request by a customer, we will
transfer virtually any used vehicle in our nationwide inventory to a local
superstore.  Transfers are free within a market; longer distance
transfers include a charge to cover transportation costs.  In fiscal
2008, more than 20% of our vehicles sold were transferred at customer
request.  Our Certified Quality Inspection assures that every vehicle
we offer for sale meets stringent mechanical, electrical and safety
standards.  We back every vehicle with a 5-day,
money-back
       
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          5
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      guarantee
and at least a 30-day limited warranty.  Other competitive factors
include our ability to offer or arrange customer financing with competitive
terms and the comprehensiveness and cost of the extended service plans we
offer.  We believe that we are competitive in all of these areas and
that we enjoy advantages over competitors that employ traditional high-pressure,
negotiation-oriented sales techniques.
       
      Our sales
consultants play a significant role in ensuring a customer-friendly sales
process.  A sales consultant is paid a commission based on a fixed
dollars-per-unit standard, thereby earning the same dollar sales commission
regardless of the gross margin on the vehicle being sold.  The sales
consultant normally receives no commission on the finance
process.  This ensures that the sales consultant’s primary objective
is helping customers find the right vehicles for their needs at prices they can
afford.  In contrast, sales and finance personnel at traditional
dealerships typically receive higher commissions for negotiating higher prices
and interest rates, and for steering customers toward vehicles with higher gross
margins.
       
      In the
new vehicle market, we compete with other franchised
dealers.  Historically, the new vehicle market has been served
primarily by dealerships employing traditional automotive selling
methods.  We believe our customer-friendly, low-pressure sales methods
are points of competitive differentiation.
       
      Marketing and
Advertising.  Our marketing strategies are focused on
developing awareness of the advantages of shopping at our stores and on
attracting customers who are already considering buying or selling a
vehicle.  We use market awareness and customer satisfaction surveys to
help tailor our marketing efforts to the purchasing habits and preferences of
customers in each market area.  Our marketing strategies are
implemented primarily through television and radio broadcasts, carmax.com, the
Internet and newspaper advertising.  Television and radio broadcast
advertisements are designed to build consumer awareness of the CarMax name,
carmax.com and key components of the CarMax offer.  Newspaper
advertisements promote our broad selection of vehicles and price
competitiveness, targeting consumers with immediate purchase
intentions.  Broadcast, Internet and newspaper advertisements are
designed to drive customers to our stores and to carmax.com.
       
      We have
changed our marketing programs in response to the rapidly changing media
landscape.  We have customized our marketing program based on
awareness levels in each market.  In many markets, we have expanded
the use of Internet-based advertising while curtailing the use of newspaper
advertising.  We are building awareness and driving traffic to our
stores and carmax.com by listing every retail vehicle on both AutoTrader.com and
cars.com.  Through their syndicated networks, AutoTrader.com and
cars.com vehicle listings appear on sites that we believe are visited by a
majority of buyers of late-model used vehicles who use the Internet in their
shopping process.  Our advertising on the Internet also includes
banner and keyword advertisements on search engines, such as Google and
Yahoo!
       
      Our
website, carmax.com, is a marketing tool for communicating the CarMax consumer
offer in detail, a sophisticated search engine for finding the right vehicle and
a sales channel for customers who prefer to complete a part of the shopping and
sales process online.  The website offers complete inventory and
pricing search capabilities.  Information on the more than 25,000 cars
available in our nationwide inventory is updated daily.  Carmax.com
includes detailed information, such as vehicle photos, prices, features,
specifications and store locations, as well as advanced feature-based search
capabilities, and sorting and comparison tools that allow consumers to easily
compare vehicles.  The site also includes features such as detailed
vehicle reviews, payment calculators and an option to estimate trade-in values
via a link to Kelley Blue Book.  Customers can contact sales
consultants online via carmax.com, by telephone or by fax.  Customers
can work with these sales consultants from the comfort of home, including
applying for financing, and need to visit the store only to sign the paperwork
and pay for and pick up their vehicle.  Our survey data indicates that
during fiscal 2008, more than 60% of customers who purchased a vehicle from us
had visited our website first.
       
      Suppliers for
Used Vehicles.  We acquire used vehicle inventory directly from
consumers through our in-store appraisal process and through other sources,
including local and regional auctions, wholesalers, franchised and independent
dealers and fleet owners, such as leasing companies and rental
companies.  In calendar 2007, approximately 21 million used vehicles
were remarketed in the U.S., of which nearly 10 million were sold at wholesale
auction.
       
      The
majority of our used vehicle inventory is acquired directly from consumers
through our appraisal process.  The most popular makes and models are
more readily available directly from consumers than from other
sources.  This buying strategy also helps provide an inventory of
makes and models that reflects the tastes of each market.  In fiscal
2007, we began testing a stand-alone car-buying center in Atlanta,
Georgia.  Our goal for the car-buying center was to increase appraisal
traffic and generate incremental vehicle purchases from 
       
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          6
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      individual
consumers.  We expanded this test in fiscal 2008, opening two
additional car-buying centers, in Raleigh, North Carolina, and Tampa, Florida,
and we plan to open two more centers during fiscal 2009.
       
      We have
replaced the traditional “trade-in” transaction with a process in which a
CarMax-trained buyer appraises a customer’s vehicle and provides the owner with
a written, guaranteed offer that is good for seven days.  An appraisal is
available to every customer free of charge, whether or not the customer
purchases a vehicle from us.  Based on their age, mileage or
condition, fewer than half of the vehicles acquired through this in-store
appraisal process meet our high quality retail standards.  Those
vehicles that do not meet our retail standards are sold to licensed dealers
through on-site wholesale auctions.
       
      The
inventory purchasing function is primarily performed at the store level and is
the responsibility of the buyers, who handle both on-site appraisals and
off-site auction purchases.  Our buyers evaluate all used vehicles on
the basis of their estimated wholesale market value, as well as estimated
reconditioning costs and, for off-site purchases, transportation
costs.  Our buyers, in collaboration with our home office staff,
utilize the extensive inventory and sales trend data available through the
CarMax information system to decide which inventory to purchase at off-site
auctions.  Our inventory and pricing models help the buyers tailor
inventories to the buying preferences at each superstore, recommend pricing
adjustments and optimize inventory turnover to help maintain gross profit per
unit.
       
      Based on
consumer acceptance of the in-store appraisal process, our experience and
success to date in acquiring vehicles from auctions and other sources, and the
large size of the U.S. auction market relative to our needs, we believe that
sources of used vehicles will continue to be sufficient to meet our current
needs and to support planned expansion.
       
      Suppliers for New
Vehicles.  Our new car operations are governed by the terms of
the sales, service and dealer agreements.  Among other things, these
agreements generally impose operating requirements and restrictions, including
inventory levels, working capital, monthly financial reporting, signage and
cooperation with marketing strategies.  A manufacturer may terminate a
dealer agreement under certain circumstances, including a change in ownership
without prior manufacturer approval, failure to maintain adequate customer
satisfaction ratings or a material breach of other provisions of the
agreement.  In addition to selling new vehicles using our low,
no-haggle price strategy, the franchise and dealer agreements generally allow us
to perform warranty work on these vehicles and sell related parts and services
within a specified market area.  Designation of specified market areas
generally does not guarantee exclusivity within a specified
territory.
       
      Seasonality.  Our
business is seasonal.  Most of our superstores experience their
strongest traffic and sales in the spring and summer quarters.  Sales
are typically lowest in the fall quarter, which coincides with the new vehicle
model-year-changeover period.  In the fall, the new model year
introductions and discounts on model year closeouts generally can cause rapid
depreciation in used car pricing, particularly for late-model used
cars.  Customer traffic also tends to slow in the fall as the weather
changes and as customers shift their spending priorities toward holiday-related
expenditures.  Seasonal patterns for car buying and selling may vary
in different parts of the country and, as we expand geographically, these
differences could have an effect on the overall seasonal pattern of our
results.
       
      Products
and Services
      Merchandising.  We
offer customers a broad selection of makes and models of used vehicles,
including both domestic and imported vehicles, at competitive
prices.  Our used car selection covers popular brands from
manufacturers such as Chrysler, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Mazda,
Mitsubishi, Nissan, Subaru, Toyota and Volkswagen and luxury brands such as
Acura, BMW, Infiniti, Lexus and Mercedes.  Our primary focus is
vehicles that are 1 to 6 years old, have fewer than 60,000 miles and generally
range in price from $11,000 to $30,000.  For the more cost-conscious
consumer, we also offer used cars that are more than 6 years old or have 60,000
miles or more and that generally range in price from $7,500 to
$21,000.
       
      We have
implemented an everyday low-price strategy under which we set no-haggle prices
on both our used and new vehicles.  We believe that our pricing is
competitive with the best-negotiated prices in the market.  Prices on
all vehicles are clearly displayed on each vehicle’s information sticker; on
carmax.com, AutoTrader.com and cars.com; and, where applicable, in our newspaper
advertising.  We extend our no-haggle philosophy to every component of
the vehicle transaction, including vehicle appraisal offers, financing rates,
accessories, extended service plan pricing and vehicle documentation
fees.
       
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          7
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      Reconditioning
and Service.  An
integral part of our used car consumer offer is the reconditioning
process.  This process includes a comprehensive Certified Quality
Inspection of the engine and all major systems, including cooling, fuel,
drivetrain, transmission, electronics, suspension, brakes, steering, air
conditioning and other
equipment, as well as the interior and exterior of the vehicle.  Based
on this quality inspection, we determine the reconditioning necessary to bring
the vehicle up to our high quality standards.  Our service technicians
complete vehicle inspections.  We perform most routine mechanical and
minor body repairs in-house; however, for some reconditioning services, we
engage third parties specializing in those services.  Over the past
several years, we have performed an increasing percentage of reconditioning
services in-house and,
based on the cost savings realized, we expect this trend to
continue.  Non-production (formerly referred to as satellite)
superstores depend upon nearby production (formerly referred to as mega and
standard) superstores for reconditioning, which increases efficiency and reduces
overhead.
       
      All
CarMax used car superstores provide vehicle repair service including repairs of
vehicles covered by our extended service plans.  We also provide
factory-authorized service at all new car franchises.  We have
developed systems and procedures that are intended to ensure that our retail
repair service is conducted in the same customer-friendly and efficient manner
as our other operations.
       
      We
believe that the efficiency of our reconditioning and service operations is
enhanced by our modern facilities, a technician mentoring process and our
information systems.  The mentoring process and our compensation
programs are designed to increase the productivity of technicians, identify
opportunities for cost reduction and achieve high-quality
repairs.  Our information systems provide the ability to track repair
history and enable trend analysis, which serves as guidance for our continuous
improvement efforts.
       
      Wholesale
Auctions. Vehicles purchased through our in-store appraisal process
that do not meet our retail standards are sold through on-site wholesale
auctions.  As of February 29, 2008, wholesale auctions were
conducted at 49 of our 89 superstores.  Auctions are generally held at
production superstores on a weekly, bi-weekly or monthly
basis.  Auction frequency at a given superstore is determined by the
number of vehicles to be auctioned, which depends on the number of stores and
the market awareness of the company and our in-store appraisal offer in that
market.  The typical wholesale vehicle is approximately 10 years old
and has more than 100,000 miles.  Participation in our wholesale
auctions is restricted to licensed automobile dealers, the majority of whom are
independent dealers.  To participate in a CarMax auction, dealers must
register with our centralized auction support group, at which time we determine
the purchase limit available to each dealer.  We make conditional
announcements on each vehicle, including those for vehicles with major
mechanical issues, possible frame or flood damage, branded titles, salvage
history and unknown true mileage.  Professional, licensed auctioneers
conduct our auctions.  The average auction sales rate was 97% in
fiscal 2008.  Dealers pay a fee to the company based on the sales
price of the vehicles they purchase.
       
      Customer Credit.
 We
offer customers a wide range of financing alternatives, which we believe
enhances the CarMax consumer offer.  Before the effect of 3-day
payoffs and vehicle returns, CAF financed more than 40% of our retail vehicle
unit sales in fiscal 2008.  Customer credit applications are initially
reviewed by CAF and may also be reviewed by a third-party
provider.  Customers who are not approved by either CAF or the initial
third-party provider are evaluated by other lenders.  Having a wide array
of financing sources not only expands the choices for our customers, but also
increases discrete approvals.  To this end, we have tested, and will
continue to test, other third-party lenders.
      
      Customers
applying for financing provide credit information that is electronically
submitted by sales consultants through our proprietary information
system.  A majority of applicants receive a response within five
minutes.  The vehicle financings are retail installment contracts
secured by the vehicles financed.  For the majority of loans arranged
by the third-party providers, we are paid a fee per vehicle
financed.  We have no recourse liability on retail installment
contracts arranged with third-party providers.  Customers are
permitted to refinance or pay off their loans within three business days of a
purchase without incurring any finance or related
charges.  
       
      Extended Service
Plans.  At the time of the sale, we offer the customer an
extended service plan.  We sell these plans on behalf of unrelated
third parties that are the primary obligors.  Under the third-party
service plan programs, we have no contractual liability to the
customer.  The extended service plans have terms of coverage from 12
to 72 months, depending on the vehicle mileage, make and age.  We
offer extended service plans at low, fixed prices, which are based primarily on
the repair record of the vehicle make and model and the length of coverage
selected.  All extended service plans that we sell (other than
manufacturers’ warranties) have been designed to our specifications and are
administered by the third parties through private-label arrangements under which
we receive a commission from the administrator at the time the extended service
plan is sold.  In fiscal 2008, more than 
       
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          8
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      half of
the customers purchasing a used vehicle from CarMax also purchased an extended
service plan.
       
      Our
extended service plan customers have access to vehicle repair service at each
CarMax store and to the third-party administrators’ nationwide network of
approximately 14,000 independent service providers.  We believe that
the quality of the services provided by this network, as well as the broad scope
of our extended service plans, helps promote customer satisfaction and loyalty,
and thus increases the likelihood of repeat and referral business.
       
      Systems
      Our
stores are supported by an advanced information system that improves the
customer experience while providing tightly integrated automation of all
operating functions.  Using in-store information kiosks, customers can
search each store’s vehicle inventory and print a detailed listing for any
vehicle, which includes the vehicle’s features and specifications and a map
showing its specific location on the display lot.  Our inventory
management system tracks every vehicle through its life from purchase through
reconditioning and test-drives to ultimate sale.  Bar codes are placed
on each vehicle and on each parking space on the display lot, and all vehicle
bar codes are scanned daily as a loss prevention measure.  Test-drive
information is captured on every vehicle using radio frequency identification
devices, linking the specific vehicle and the sales consultant.  We
also capture data on vehicles we wholesale, which helps us track market
pricing.  An online finance application process and computer-assisted
document preparation ensure rapid completion of the sales
transaction.  Behind the scenes, our proprietary store technology
provides our management with real-time information about every aspect of store
operations, such as inventory management, pricing, vehicle transfers, wholesale
auctions and sales consultant productivity. In addition, our store system
provides a direct link to our proprietary credit processing information system
to facilitate the credit review and approval process.
       
      Our
inventory management and pricing system allows us to buy the mix of makes,
models, age, mileage and price points tailored to customer buying preferences at
each superstore.  This system also generates recommended retail price
markdowns for specific vehicles based on complex algorithms that take into
account factors including sales history, consumer interest and seasonal
patterns.  We believe this systematic approach to vehicle pricing
allows us to optimize inventory turns, which minimizes the depreciation risk
inherent in used cars and helps us to achieve our targeted gross profit dollars
per unit.
       
      In
addition to inventory management, our Electronic Repair Order system (“ERO”) is
used by the service department to sequence reconditioning
procedures.  ERO provides information that helps increase quality and
reduce costs, which further enhances our customer service and
profitability.
       
      Through
our centralized systems, we are able to immediately integrate new stores into
our store network, allowing the new stores to rapidly achieve operating
efficiency.  We continue to enhance and refine our information
systems, which we believe to be a core competitive advantage.  The
design of our information systems incorporates off-site backups, redundant
processing and other measures to reduce the risk of significant data loss in the
event of an emergency or disaster.
       
      Associates
      On
February 29, 2008, we had a total of 15,637 associates, including 11,780
hourly and salaried associates and 3,857 sales associates, who worked on a
commission basis.  Sales consultants include both full-time and
part-time employees.  We employ additional associates during peak
selling seasons.  As of February 29, 2008, our location general
managers averaged more than eight years of CarMax experience, in addition to
prior retail management experience.  We open new stores with
experienced management teams drawn from existing stores.
       
      We
believe we have created a unique corporate culture and maintain good employee
relations. No associate is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We
focus on providing our associates with the information and resources they need
to offer exceptional customer service.  We reward associates whose
behavior exemplifies our culture, and we believe that our favorable working
conditions and compensation programs allow us to attract and retain highly
qualified individuals in each market that we enter.  We have been
recognized for the success of our efforts by a number of external
organizations.
       
      Training.  To
further support our emphasis on attracting, developing and retaining qualified
associates, we have made a commitment to providing exceptional training
programs.  On average, each store associate completed at least 15
online or classroom courses, totaling more than 75 hours of training per
associate in fiscal 2008.  Store associates receive structured,
self-paced training that introduces them to company policies and their specific
job responsibilities through KMX University – our proprietary
intranet-based testing and tracking 
       
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      system.  KMX University
is comprised of customized applications hosted within a learning management
system that allow us to author, deliver and track training events and to measure
associate competency before and after training.  In fiscal 2008, more
than one million hours of training were delivered through
KMX University.  Most new store associates are also assigned
mentors who provide on-the-job guidance and support.
       
      We also
provide comprehensive, facilitator-led classroom training courses to sales
consultants, buyers, automotive technicians and managers.  All sales
consultants receive extensive customer service training both initially and on an
ongoing basis.  Buyers-in-training undergo a 6- to 18-month
apprenticeship under the supervision of experienced buyers, and they generally
will assist with the appraisal of more than 1,000 cars before making their first
independent purchase.  We utilize a mix of internal and external
technical training programs in an effort to provide a stable future supply of
qualified technicians.  Reconditioning and mechanical technicians
attend in-house and vendor-sponsored training programs designed to develop their
skills in performing repairs on the diverse makes and models of vehicles we
sell.  Technicians at our new car franchises also attend
manufacturer-sponsored training programs to stay abreast of current diagnostic,
repair and maintenance techniques for those manufacturers’
vehicles.  Additionally, our management training program includes
rotations through each functional area.
       
      Laws
and Regulations
      Vehicle Dealer
and Other Laws and Regulations.  We operate in a highly
regulated industry.  In every state in which we operate, we must
obtain various licenses and permits in order to conduct business, including
dealer, service, sales and finance licenses issued by state and certain local
regulatory authorities.  A wide range of federal, state and local laws
and regulations govern the manner in which we conduct business,
including advertising, sales, financing and employment
practices.  These laws include consumer protection laws, privacy laws,
anti-money laundering laws and state franchise laws, as well as other laws and
regulations applicable to new and used motor vehicle dealers.  These
laws also include federal and state wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other
employment practices laws.  Our financing activities with customers
are subject to federal truth-in-lending, consumer leasing and equal credit
opportunity laws and regulations, as well as state and local motor vehicle
finance and collection laws, installment finance laws and usury
laws.
      
      Claims
arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us by
individuals or governmental authorities and may expose us to significant damages
or other penalties, including revocation or suspension of the licenses necessary to conduct business and
fines.
       
      Environmental Laws and
Regulations. We are subject to a
variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations that pertain to the
environment.  Our business involves the use, handling and disposal of
hazardous materials and wastes, including motor oil, gasoline, solvents,
lubricants, paints and other substances.  We are subject to compliance
with regulations concerning the operation of underground and aboveground
gasoline storage tanks, aboveground oil tanks and automotive spray
booths.
       
      AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS AND OTHER
INFORMATION 
      Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and proxy statements on Schedule 14A, as well as any amendments to
those reports, are available without charge through our website, carmax.com, as
soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing the material to the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The contents of our website are
not, however, part of this report.
       
      In
addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct, as
well as the charters of the Audit Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee
and Compensation and Personnel Committee, are available to shareholders and the
public through the “Corporate Governance” link on our investor information home
page at investor.carmax.com.  Printed copies of these documents are
available to any shareholder, without charge, upon written request to our
corporate secretary at the address set forth on the cover page of this
report.  Any changes to these documents or reportable waivers of the
Code of Business Conduct are promptly disclosed on our website.
      
       
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
       
      Item 1A.  Risk Factors.
       
      We are
subject to various risks, including the risks described below.  Our
business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and
adversely affected by any of these risks or additional risks not presently known
or that we currently deem immaterial.
      
      Economic
Conditions.  In the normal course
of business, we are subject to changes in general or regional U.S. economic
conditions, including, but not limited to, consumer credit availability,
consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, interest rates, gasoline prices,
inflation, personal discretionary spending levels and consumer sentiment about
the economy in general.  Any significant changes in economic
conditions could adversely affect consumer demand and/or increase
costs.
      
      Capital.  Changes
in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing, including
the availability and cost of long-term financing to support our geographic
expansion and the availability and cost of financing auto loan receivables,
could adversely affect growth and operating strategies.  Further, our
current credit facility and certain securitization and sale-leaseback agreements
contain covenants and/or performance triggers.  Any failure to comply
with these covenants and/or performance triggers could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.
      
      We use
and have historically relied upon a securitization program to fund substantially
all of the auto loan receivables originated by CAF.  Initially, we
sell these receivables into our warehouse facility.  We periodically
refinance the receivables through public securitizations.  If
there were a change in the condition of the asset-backed market, we could
incur higher costs to access funds in this market or we could be required to
seek alternative means to finance our loan originations.  In the event
that this market ceased to exist and there were no immediate alternative funding
sources available, we might be forced to curtail our lending practices for some
period of time.  The impact of reducing or curtailing CAF’s loan
originations could have a material adverse impact on our business, sales and
results of operations.
      
      Competition. Automotive retailing is
a highly competitive business.  Our competition includes publicly and
privately owned new and used car dealers, as well as millions of private
individuals.  Competitors could sell the same or similar makes of
vehicles that we offer in the same or similar markets at competitive
prices.  Further, new entrants to the market could result in increased
acquisition costs for used vehicles and lower-than-expected vehicle sales and
margins.  Competition could be affected by the increasing use of
Internet-based marketing for both used vehicles and vehicle
financing.  Customers are increasingly using the Internet to compare
pricing for cars and related financing, which could further reduce sales and
adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, CAF is
subject to competition from various financial institutions.
      
      Retail
Prices.  Any significant changes in retail prices for used and
new vehicles could reduce sales and profits.  If any of our
competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices for used or
new vehicles, we would likely reduce our prices in order to remain competitive,
which could result in a decrease in our sales revenue and results of operations
and require a change in our operating strategies.
      
      Inventory.  A
reduction in the availability or access to sources of inventory would adversely
affect our business.  A failure to adjust appraisal offers to stay in
line with broader market trade-in offer trends, or a failure to recognize those
trends, could negatively impact the ability to acquire
inventory.  Should we develop excess inventory, the inability to
liquidate the excess inventory at prices that allow us to meet margin targets or
to recover our costs would adversely affect our results of
operations.
      
      Regulatory
Environment.  We are subject to a wide range of federal, state
and local laws and regulations, such as licensing requirements and laws
regarding advertising, vehicle sales, financing and employment
practices.  Our facilities and business operations are also subject to
laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and
safety.  The violation of these laws or regulations could result in
administrative, civil or criminal penalties or in a cease and desist order
against business operations.  As a result, we have incurred and will
continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs to comply
with these laws and regulations.  Further, over the past several
years, private plaintiffs and federal, state and local regulatory and law
enforcement authorities have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales,
financing and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor
vehicles.  If, as a result, other automotive retailers adopt more
transparent, consumer-oriented business practices, our differentiation versus
those retailers could be reduced.
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      Management and
Workforce.  Our success depends upon the continued
contributions of our store, region and corporate management
teams.  Consequently, the loss of the services of key employees could
have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, we will
need to hire additional personnel as we open new stores.  The market
for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate
is highly competitive and could result in increased labor costs during periods
of low unemployment.
      
      Information
Systems.  Our business is dependent upon the efficient
operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information
systems to effectively manage sales, inventory, consumer financing and customer
information.  The failure of these systems to perform as designed or
the failure to maintain and continually enhance or protect the integrity of
these systems could disrupt our business operations, impact sales and results of
operations, expose us to customer or third-party claims or result in adverse
publicity.
      
      Accounting
Policies and Matters. We have identified several accounting policies
as being “critical” to the fair presentation of our financial condition and
results of operations because they involve major aspects of our business and
require management to make judgments about matters that are inherently
uncertain.  Materially different amounts could be recorded under
different conditions or using different assumptions.  The
implementation of new accounting requirements or changes to U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles could adversely affect our reported results of
operations or financial condition.  Potential changes currently under
consideration by the Financial Accounting Standards Board include, but are not
limited to, proposed rule changes relating to the accounting for securitization
transactions and potential changes in accounting for leases and pension
expense.
      
      Confidential
Customer Information. In the normal course of
business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer
information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and
systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to
security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data,
programming or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach
involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of
confidential information, whether by us or by third-party service providers,
could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability,
disrupt our business or otherwise harm our results of operations.
      
      Litigation.  We
are subject to various litigation matters, which, if the outcomes in any
significant matters are adverse, could adversely affect our
business.  Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law
could be asserted against us by individuals, either individually or through
class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations
and proceedings.  These actions could expose us to adverse publicity
and to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief
and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation
of licenses to conduct business.
      
      Real
Estate.  The inability to acquire or lease suitable real estate
at favorable terms could limit the expansion of our store base and could have a
material adverse affect on our business and results of operations.
      
      Weather.  The
occurrence of severe weather events, such as rain, snow, wind, storms,
hurricanes or other natural disasters, could cause store closures, adversely
affecting consumer traffic, and could adversely affect our results of
operations.
      
      Seasonal
Fluctuations.  Our business is subject to seasonal
fluctuations.  We generally realize a higher proportion of revenue and
operating profit during the first and second fiscal quarters.  If
conditions arise that impair vehicle sales during the first or second fiscal
quarters, these conditions could have a disproportionately large adverse effect
on annual results of operations.
      
      Geographic
Concentration.  Our performance is subject
to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in geographic
areas where we operate.  Since a large number of our superstores are
located in the Southeastern U.S. and in the Chicago, Los Angeles and
Washington, D.C./Baltimore markets, our results of operations depend
substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in
these markets.  In the event that any of these geographic areas
experienced a downturn in economic conditions, it could adversely affect our
business and results of operations.
      
      Other Material
Events.  The occurrence of certain material events including
natural disasters, acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war or other significant
national or international events could adversely affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition.
      
        
          Table of Contents
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          
          
        
      
      
       
      Item 1B