ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS        

        In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could
materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently
known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 


 Obesity and other health concerns may reduce demand for some of our products.  

        Consumers, public health officials and government officials are becoming increasingly concerned about the public health consequences
associated with obesity, particularly among young people. In addition, some researchers, health advocates and dietary guidelines are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of certain types of
beverages, especially sugar-sweetened beverages. Increasing public concern about these issues; possible new taxes and governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling or availability of our
beverages; and negative publicity resulting from actual or threatened legal actions against us or other companies in our industry relating to the marketing, labeling or sale of sugar-sweetened
beverages may reduce demand for our beverages, which could affect our profitability. 

 Water scarcity and poor quality could negatively impact the Coca-Cola system's production costs and capacity.  

        Water is the main ingredient in substantially all of our products. It is also a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing
unprecedented challenges from overexploitation, increasing pollution, poor management and climate change. As demand for water continues to increase around the world, and as water becomes scarcer and
the quality of available water deteriorates, our system may incur increasing production costs or face capacity constraints which could adversely affect our profitability or net operating revenues in
the long run. 

12




 

 Changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment could impact our financial results.  

        The nonalcoholic beverages business environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer
preferences, including changes based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns; shifting consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; and competitive product and
pricing pressures. In addition, the industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the retail channel, particularly in Europe and the United States. If we are unable to successfully
adapt to this rapidly changing environment, our net income, share of sales and volume growth could be negatively affected. 

 The global credit crisis may adversely affect our liquidity and financial performance.  

        The global credit markets have experienced unprecedented disruptions in recent months. If the current credit crisis were to worsen, we
may be unable to access credit markets on favorable terms, which could increase our cost of borrowing. In addition, the current credit crisis may make it more difficult for our bottling partners to
access financing on terms comparable to those obtained historically, which would affect the Coca-Cola system's profitability as well as our share of the income of bottling partners in
which we have equity method investments. The current global credit market
conditions and their actual or perceived effects on our and our major bottling partners' results of operations and financial condition, along with the deteriorating economic environment brought about
by the financial crisis, may increase the likelihood that the major independent credit agencies will downgrade our credit ratings, which could have a negative effect on our borrowing costs. The
significant decline in the equity markets and in the valuation of other assets precipitated by the credit crisis and financial system instability has affected the value of our pension plan assets. The
lower pension plan asset base will negatively affect our return on plan assets and thus increase our pension expense. In addition, if the current adverse market conditions continue for a prolonged
period of time or deteriorate further, it could have an additional negative impact on our future pension benefit expense. As a result of the decline in the fair value of our pension plans assets and a
decrease in the discount rate used to calculate pension benefit obligations, we have made and will consider making additional contributions to our U.S. and international pension plans in 2009. In
addition, the instability of major financial institutions caused by the credit crisis could increase the counterparty risk associated with our existing derivative financial instruments and may
increase the cost of, or may impair our ability to secure credit-worthy counterparties for, future derivative transactions. The decrease in availability of consumer credit resulting from the financial
crisis, as well as general unfavorable economic conditions, may also cause consumers to reduce their discretionary spending, which would reduce the demand for our beverages and negatively affect our
net revenues and the Coca-Cola system's profitability. 

 Increased competition could hurt our business.  

        The nonalcoholic beverages segment of the commercial beverages industry is highly competitive. We compete with major international
beverage companies that, like our Company, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as numerous firms that are primarily local in operation. In many countries in which we do business, including
the United States, PepsiCo, Inc. is a primary competitor. Other significant competitors include, but are not limited to, Nestlé, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc.,
Groupe Danone, Kraft Foods Inc. and Unilever. In addition, in certain markets, our competition includes major beer companies. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales or gross margins in
the global market or in various local markets may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. 

 If we are unable to expand our operations in developing and emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected.  


        Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, which in turn depends on economic
and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to acquire or form strategic business alliances with local bottlers and to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production
facilities, distribution networks, sales equipment and technology. Moreover, the supply of our products in 

13




 


developing
and emerging markets must match consumers' demand for those products. Due to product price, limited purchasing power and cultural differences, there can be no assurance that our products
will be accepted in any particular developing or emerging market. 

 Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could affect our financial results.  

        We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including
the euro, the Japanese yen, the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso. In 2008, we used 69 functional currencies in addition to the U.S. dollar and derived approximately 75 percent of our
net operating revenues from operations outside of the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as
well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against
other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our
operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. We also use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate
fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large
developing countries, would not materially affect our financial results. 

 If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected.  

        We maintain levels of debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows, interest coverage ratio and percentage of debt to capital.
We use debt financing to lower our cost of capital, which increases our return on shareowners' equity. This exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. When appropriate, we use derivative
financial instruments to reduce our exposure to interest rate risks. We cannot assure you, however, that our financial risk management program will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in
exposures to interest rate fluctuations. Our interest expense may also be affected by our credit ratings. In assessing our credit strength, credit rating agencies consider our capital structure and
financial policies as well as the aggregate balance sheet and other financial information for the Company and certain major bottlers. It is our expectation that the credit rating agencies will
continue using this methodology. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded as a result of changes in our capital structure; our major bottlers' financial performance; changes in the credit rating
agencies' methodology in assessing our credit strength; the credit agencies' perception of the impact of the current credit crisis on our or our major bottlers' current or future financial performance
and financial condition; or for any other reason, our cost of borrowing could increase. Additionally, if the credit ratings of certain bottlers in which we have equity method investments were to be
downgraded, such bottlers' interest expense could increase, which would reduce our equity income. 

 We rely on our bottling partners for a significant portion of our business. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners, our business could
suffer.  

        We generate a significant portion of our net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to bottling partners in which we do
not have any ownership interest or in which we have a noncontrolling ownership interest. In 2008, approximately 78 percent of our worldwide unit case volume was produced and distributed by
bottling partners in which the Company did not have controlling interests. As independent companies, our bottling partners, some of which are publicly traded companies, make their own business
decisions that may not always align with our interests. In addition, many of our bottling partners have the right to manufacture or distribute their own products or certain products of other beverage
companies. If we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottling partners through a combination of pricing and marketing and advertising support, they may take actions that,
while maximizing their own short-term profits, may be detrimental to our Company or our brands, or they may devote more of their energy and resources to 

14




 


business
opportunities or products other than those of the Company. Such actions could, in the long run, have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, the loss of one or more major
customers by one of our major bottling partners, or disruptions of bottling operations that may be caused by strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest affecting such bottling partners, could indirectly
affect our results. 

 If our bottling partners' financial condition deteriorates, our business and financial results could be affected.  

        We derive a significant portion of our net operating revenues from sales of concentrates and syrups to our bottling partners and,
therefore, the success of our business depends on our bottling partners' financial strength and profitability. While under our bottling partners' agreements we generally have the right to unilaterally
change the prices we charge for our concentrates and syrups, our ability to do so may be materially limited by our bottling partners' financial condition and their ability to pass price increases
along to their customers. In addition, we have investments in certain of our bottling partners, which we account for under the equity method, and our operating results include our proportionate share
of such bottling partners' income or loss. Our bottling partners' financial condition is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our control, including competitive and general
market conditions in the territories in which they operate and the availability of capital and other financing resources on reasonable terms. A deterioration of our bottling partners' financial
condition or results of operations because of adverse competitive, general economic or capital market conditions, or due to other unfavorable developments, could adversely affect our net operating
revenues from sales of concentrates and syrups; could result in a decrease in our equity income from equity-method investments; and could negatively affect the carrying values of such investments,
resulting in asset write-offs. 

 If we are unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or we or our bottling partners experience strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest, our
business could suffer.  

        Many of our associates at our key manufacturing locations and bottling plants are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If we
are unable to renew such agreements on satisfactory terms, our labor costs could increase, which would affect our profit margins. In addition, many of our bottling partners' employees are represented
by labor unions. Strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest at any of our major manufacturing facilities or at our major bottlers' plants could impair our ability to supply concentrates
and syrups to our bottling partners or our bottlers' ability to supply finished beverages to customers, which would reduce our revenues and could expose us to customer claims. 

 Increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of energy could affect our profitability.  

        Our Company-owned bottling operations and our bottling partners operate a large fleet of trucks and other motor vehicles. In addition,
we and our bottlers use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate our concentrate and bottling plants. An increase
in the price, disruption of supply or shortage of fuel and other energy sources that may be caused by increasing demand or by events such as natural disasters, power outages or the like would increase
our and the Coca-Cola system's operating costs and, therefore, could negatively impact our profitability. 

 Increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of ingredients or packaging materials could harm our business.  

        We and our bottling partners use various ingredients in our business, including high fructose corn syrup, sucrose, aspartame,
saccharin, acesulfame potassium, sucralose, ascorbic acid, citric acid, phosphoric acid and orange juice concentrate, as well as packaging materials such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET or plastic)
for bottles and aluminum for cans. The prices for these ingredients and packaging materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. Substantial increases in the prices for our or our bottling
partners' ingredients and packaging materials, to the extent they cannot be recouped through increases in the prices of finished beverage products, would increase our and the Coca-Cola
system's operating costs and could reduce our profitability. Increases in the prices of our finished products resulting from higher ingredient and packaging material costs could affect 

15




 


affordability
in some markets and reduce Coca-Cola system sales. In addition, some of these ingredients, such as aspartame, acesulfame potassium, sucralose, saccharin and ascorbic acid, as
well as some of the packaging containers, such as aluminum cans, are available from a limited number of suppliers. We cannot assure you that we and our bottling partners will be able to maintain
favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. An increase in the cost, a sustained interruption in the supply, or a shortage of some of these ingredients, packaging materials or cans
and other containers that may be caused by a deterioration of our or our bottling partners' relationships with suppliers; by supplier quality and reliability issues; or by events such as natural
disasters, power outages, labor strikes or the like, could negatively impact our net revenues and profits. 

 Changes in laws and regulations relating to beverage containers and packaging could increase our costs and reduce demand for our products.  

        We and our bottlers currently offer nonrefillable, recyclable containers in the United States and in various other markets around the
world. Legal requirements have been enacted in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged for the sale, marketing and use of
certain nonrefillable beverage containers. Other proposals relating to beverage container deposits, recycling, ecotax and/or product stewardship have been introduced in various jurisdictions in the
United States and overseas, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may
be proposed in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere. Consumers' increased concerns and changing attitudes about solid waste streams and environmental
responsibility and related publicity could result in the adoption of such legislation or regulations. If these types of requirements are adopted and implemented on a large scale in any of the major
markets in which we operate, they could affect our costs or require changes in our distribution model, which could reduce our net operating revenues or profitability. In addition, container-deposit
laws, or regulations that impose additional burdens on retailers, could cause a shift away from our products to retailer-proprietary brands, which could impact the demand for our products in the
affected markets. 

 Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may inhibit sales of affected products.  

        Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements relating to the chemical
content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of our products. These types of requirements, if they become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future
environmental or health laws or regulations, may inhibit sales of such products. One such law is in effect in California. It requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a
component listed by the state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. This law recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning is not required. Pursuant
to this law, the State of California has initiated a regulatory process in which caffeine will be evaluated for listing. If a component found in one of our products, such as caffeine, is added to the
lists pursuant to this law and related regulations as they currently exist or as they may be amended, or if the increasing sensitivity of detection methodology that may become available results in the
detection of an infinitesimal quantity of a listed substance in one of our beverages produced for sale in California, the resulting warning requirements or adverse publicity could negatively affect
our sales. 

 Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States or in other major markets could negatively impact our financial performance.  

        Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the United States or in one or more of our other
major markets, could negatively affect the affordability of, and consumer demand for, some of our beverages. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by
forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our beverages to lower-priced products offered by other companies. Softer consumer demand for our beverages in the United States or in other
major markets could reduce the Coca-Cola system's profitability and could negatively affect our financial performance. 

16




 


Recent
developments indicate that the United States economy is in recession and that the global economy is experiencing a slowdown. If current adverse economic conditions were to continue or to
worsen, our results of operations could suffer. 

 Unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets could hurt our business.  

        We derive a significant portion of our net operating revenues from sales of our products in international markets. In 2008, our
operations outside of the United States accounted for approximately 75 percent of our net operating revenues. Unfavorable economic and political conditions in certain of our international
markets, including civil unrest and governmental changes, could undermine consumer confidence and reduce the consumers' purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. In addition, product
boycotts resulting from political activism could reduce demand for our products, while restrictions on our ability to transfer earnings or capital across borders which may be imposed or expanded as a
result of political and economic instability could impact our profitability. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, the current unstable economic and political conditions and civil
unrest and political activism in the Middle East, India or the Philippines, the unstable situation in Iraq, or the continuation or escalation of terrorist activities could adversely impact our
international business. 

 Changes in commercial and market practices within the European Economic Area may affect the sales of our products.  


        We and our bottlers are subject to an Undertaking, rendered legally binding in June 2005 by a decision of the European Commission,
pursuant to which we committed to make certain changes in our commercial and market practices in the European Economic Area Member States. The Undertaking potentially applies in 27 countries and in
all channels of distribution where certain of our sparkling beverages account for over 40 percent of national sales and twice the nearest competitor's share. The commitments we and our bottlers
made in the Undertaking relate broadly to exclusivity, percentage-based purchasing commitments, transparency, target rebates, tying, assortment or range commitments, and agreements concerning products
of other suppliers. The Undertaking also applies to shelf space commitments in agreements with take-home customers and to financing and availability agreements in the
on-premise channel. In addition, the Undertaking includes commitments that are applicable to commercial arrangements concerning the installation and use of technical equipment (such as
coolers, fountain equipment and vending machines). Adjustments to our business model in the European Economic Area Member States as a result of these commitments or of future interpretations of
European Union competition laws and regulations could adversely affect our sales in the European Economic Area markets. 

 Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.  

        We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess
the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant
litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management
judgment. We caution you that actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. In addition, we have bottling and other business
operations in emerging or developing markets with high-risk legal compliance environments. Our policies and procedures require strict compliance by our associates and agents with all
United States and local laws and regulations applicable to our business operations, including those prohibiting improper payments to government officials. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that our
policies, procedures and related training programs will always ensure full compliance by our associates and agents with all applicable legal requirements. Improper conduct by our associates or agents
could damage our reputation in the United States and internationally or lead to litigation or legal proceedings 

17




 


that
could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits. 


 Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our products.  

        The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold or
rainy weather during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for our products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for
such periods. 

 If we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer.  

        Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products and effectively build up brand image for new
products and brand extensions. We cannot assure you, however, that additional expenditures and our continuing commitment to advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products'
brand image and on consumer preferences. Changes in consumers' media preferences, such as the shift away from traditional mass media to the Internet, may undermine the effectiveness of our media
advertising campaigns in reaching consumers and may increase our marketing costs. Product quality issues, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded,
could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. Allegations of product contamination, even if untrue, may require us from time to time to recall a
beverage or other product from all of the markets in which the affected production was distributed. Product recalls could negatively affect our profitability and brand image. Also, adverse publicity
surrounding obesity concerns, water usage, labor relations and the like, and campaigns by activists attempting to connect our system to environmental issues, water shortages or workplace or human
rights violations in certain developing countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our Company's overall reputation and our products' acceptance by consumers. 

 Changes in the legal and regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate could increase our costs or reduce our net operating revenues.  

        Our Company's business is subject to various laws and regulations in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do
business, including laws and regulations relating to competition, product safety, advertising and labeling, container deposits, recycling or stewardship, the protection of the environment, and
employment and labor practices. In the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are subject to, among others, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Federal
Trade Commission Act, the Lanham Act, state consumer protection laws, the
Occupational Safety and Health Act, various environmental statutes, as well as various state and local statutes and regulations. Outside the United States, the production, distribution, sale,
advertising and labeling of many of our products are also subject to various laws and regulations. Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased
government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other
financial obligations for us and our bottling partners, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could affect our net operating revenues. 

 Changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements could affect our financial results.  

        New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to our Company from time to time, or changes in the
interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. We are also subject to income tax in the numerous
jurisdictions in which we generate net operating revenues. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions in which we
operate. Increases in income tax rates could 

18




 


reduce
our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions, while increases in indirect taxes could affect our products' affordability and therefore reduce demand for our products. 

 If we are not able to achieve our overall long-term goals, the value of an investment in our Company could be negatively affected.  


        We have established and publicly announced certain long-term growth objectives. These objectives were based on our
evaluation of our growth prospects, which are generally based on volume and sales potential of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others, and on an assessment of a potential
level or mix of product sales. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the required volume or revenue growth or the mix of products necessary to achieve our long-term growth
objectives. 

 If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted.  


        We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information.
In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and electronic communications among our locations around the world and between Company personnel
and our bottlers and other customers and suppliers. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are
unable to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. 


 We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges.  

        We assess our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets and our long-lived assets as and when required by accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States to determine whether they are impaired. In 2008, we recorded charges of approximately $1.6 billion to equity income, which represented our
proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by CCE. In addition, the Company recorded a charge of approximately $81 million related to other-than-temporary
declines in the fair value of certain available-for-sale securities. In 2007, we recorded net charges of approximately $150 million related to our proportionate share of
impairment and restructuring charges partially offset by our proportionate share of tax rate changes recorded by certain equity investees. In 2006, we recorded a charge of approximately
$602 million to equity income resulting from the impact of our proportionate share of an impairment charge recorded by CCE, and impairment charges of approximately $41 million primarily
related to trademarks for beverages sold in the Philippines and Indonesia. Refer to the heading "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Recoverability of Noncurrent Assets" of
"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this report for additional discussion of impairment charges. 

 If we do not successfully manage our Company-owned bottling operations, our results could suffer.  


        While we primarily manufacture, market and sell concentrates and syrups to our bottling partners, from time to time we do acquire or
take control of bottling operations and have increasingly done so in recent years. As of December 31, 2008, the net operating revenues generated by Company-owned and controlled bottling
operations (which are included in the Bottling Investments operating segment) represented approximately 27 percent of our Company's consolidated net operating revenues. Often, though not
always, these acquired bottling operations are in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve performance. Acquisitions and consolidation of controlled
bottling operations during 2008 and 2007 have resulted in a substantial increase in the number of Company-owned bottling plants included in our consolidated financial statements and in the number of
our associates. We may incur unforeseen liabilities and obligations in connection with acquiring, taking control of or managing bottling operations and may encounter unexpected difficulties and costs
in restructuring and integrating them into our Company's operating and 

19




 


internal
control structures. We may also experience delays in extending our Company's internal control over financial reporting to newly acquired bottling operations which may increase the risk of
failure to prevent misstatements in such operations' financial records. In addition, our financial performance and the strength and efficiency of the Coca-Cola system depend in part on how
well we can manage and improve the performance of Company-owned or controlled bottling operations. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to achieve our strategic and financial objectives
for such bottling operations. 

 Climate change may negatively affect our business.  

        There is increasing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Decreased agricultural
productivity in certain regions as a result of changing weather patterns may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as sugar cane, corn, beets, citrus, coffee
and tea, which are important ingredients for our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact
demand for our products. Climate change may also exacerbate water scarcity and cause a further deterioration of water quality in affected regions, which could limit water availability for our system's
bottling operations. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us and our
bottling partners to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results
of operations. 


 Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and financial results.  

        Because of our global presence and worldwide operations, our business can be affected by large-scale terrorist acts, especially those
directed against the United States or other major industrialized countries; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; major natural disasters; or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases
such as avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome (generally known as SARS). Such events could impair our ability to manage our business around the world, could disrupt our supply of raw
materials, and could impact production, transportation and delivery of concentrates, syrups and finished products. In addition, such events could cause disruption of regional or global economic
activity, which can affect consumers' purchasing power in the affected areas and, therefore, reduce demand for our products.  

<A
NAME="dg74201_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B