ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS        

In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our
business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we
currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. 

 Obesity and other health concerns may reduce demand for some of our products.  

Consumers, public health officials and government officials are becoming increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with
obesity, particularly among young people. In addition, some researchers, health advocates and dietary guidelines are encouraging consumers to reduce consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, including
those sweetened with HFCS or other nutritive sweeteners. Increasing public concern about these issues; possible new taxes and governmental regulations concerning the marketing, labeling or
availability of our beverages; and negative publicity resulting from actual or threatened legal actions against us or other companies in our industry relating to the marketing, labeling or sale of
sugar-sweetened beverages may reduce demand for our beverages, which could affect our profitability. 

 Water scarcity and poor quality could negatively impact the Coca-Cola system's production costs and capacity.  

Water is the main ingredient in substantially all of our products. It is also a limited resource in many parts of the world, facing unprecedented
challenges from overexploitation, increasing pollution, poor management and climate change. As demand for water continues to increase around the world, and as water becomes scarcer and the quality of
available water deteriorates, our system may incur increasing production costs or face capacity constraints which could adversely affect our profitability or net operating revenues in the long run. 

 Changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment could impact our financial results.  

The nonalcoholic beverages business environment is rapidly evolving as a result of, among other things, changes in consumer preferences, including
changes based on health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns; shifting consumer tastes and needs; changes in consumer lifestyles; and competitive product and pricing pressures. In
addition, our industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the retail channel, particularly in Europe and the United States. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this rapidly
changing environment, our share of sales, volume growth and overall financial results could be negatively affected. 

 The recent global credit crisis and its effects on credit and equity market conditions may adversely affect our financial performance.  

The global credit markets experienced unprecedented disruptions during the past two years, and while they improved during 2009, the improvement has
not been uniform. The cost and availability of credit varies by market and is subject to changes in the global economic environment. If the current conditions in the credit markets continue or worsen,
our ability to access credit markets on favorable terms may be negatively affected, which could increase our cost of borrowing. In addition, the current credit conditions may make it more difficult
for our bottling partners to access financing on terms comparable to those obtained historically, which would affect the Coca-Cola system's profitability as well as our share of the income
of bottling partners in which we have equity method investments. The current global credit market conditions and their actual or perceived effects on our and our major bottling partners' results of
operations and financial condition, along with the current unfavorable economic environment in the United States and much of the world, may increase the likelihood that the major independent credit
agencies will downgrade our credit ratings, which could have a negative effect on our borrowing costs. 

The
significant decline in the equity markets and in the valuation of other assets precipitated by the recent global credit crisis and related financial system instability affected the value of our
pension plan assets. In spite of improving asset values in 2009, the fair value of our plan assets remains lower than pre-crisis levels, and this could lead to higher pension expense in
the future. As a result of the decline in the fair value of our pension plan assets and a decrease in the discount rate used to calculate pension benefit obligations, we made contributions of
$269 million to our U.S. and international pension plans in 2009 and will consider making additional contributions in 2010 and beyond. 

12




 

In
addition, the major financial institutions remain fragile, and the counterparty risk associated with our existing derivative financial instruments remains higher than pre-crisis levels.
Therefore, we may be unable to secure creditworthy counterparties for derivative transactions in the future or may incur higher than anticipated costs in our hedging activities. The decrease in
availability of consumer credit resulting from the financial crisis, as well as general unfavorable economic conditions, may also cause consumers to reduce their discretionary spending, which would
reduce the demand for our beverages and negatively affect our net revenues and the Coca-Cola system's profitability. 

 Increased competition could hurt our business.  

The nonalcoholic beverages segment of the commercial beverages industry is highly competitive. We compete with major international beverage companies
that, like our Company, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as numerous firms that are primarily local in operation. In many countries in which we do business, including the United States,
PepsiCo, Inc., is a primary competitor. Other significant competitors include, but are not limited to, Nestlé, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., Groupe Danone, Kraft
Foods Inc. and Unilever. In certain markets, our competition includes major beer companies. Our beverage products also compete against local or regional brands as well as against store or
private label brands developed by retailers, some of which are Coca-Cola system customers. Our ability to gain or maintain share of sales or gross margins in the global market or in
various local markets may be limited as a result of actions by competitors. 


 If we are unable to expand our operations in developing and emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected.  

Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business in developing and emerging markets, which in turn depends on economic and political
conditions in those markets and on our ability to acquire or form strategic business alliances with local bottlers and to make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities,
distribution networks, sales equipment and technology. Moreover, the supply of our products in developing and emerging markets must match consumers' demand for those products. Due to product price,
limited purchasing power and cultural differences, there can be no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular developing or emerging market. 

 Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results.  

We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the
Japanese yen, the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso. In 2009, we used 71 functional currencies in addition to the U.S. dollar and derived approximately 74 percent of our net operating
revenues from operations outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and
liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major
currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, unexpected and dramatic devaluations of
currencies in developing or emerging markets, such as the recent devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, could negatively affect the value of our earnings from, and of the assets located in, those
markets. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. We also use derivative financial instruments to further
reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar
against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, would not materially affect our financial results. 

 If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected.  

We maintain levels of debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows, interest coverage ratio and percentage of debt to capital. We use debt
financing to lower our cost of capital, which increases our return on shareowners' equity. This exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. When appropriate, we use derivative financial
instruments to reduce our exposure to interest rate risks. We cannot assure you, however, that our financial risk management program will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to
interest rate fluctuations. Our interest expense may also be affected by our credit ratings. In assessing our credit strength, credit rating agencies consider our capital structure and financial
policies as well as the aggregate balance sheet and other financial information for the Company and certain major bottlers. It is our expectation that the credit rating agencies will continue using
this methodology. If our 

13




 


credit
ratings were to be downgraded as a result of changes in our capital structure; our major bottlers' financial performance; changes in the credit rating agencies' methodology in assessing our
credit strength; the credit agencies' perception of the impact of the continuing unfavorable credit conditions on our or our major bottlers' current or future financial performance and financial
condition; or for any other reason, our cost of borrowing could increase. Additionally, if the credit ratings of certain bottlers in which we have equity method investments were to be downgraded, such
bottlers' interest expense could increase, which would reduce our equity income. 


 We rely on our bottling partners for a significant portion of our business. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners, our business could
suffer.  

We generate a significant portion of our net operating revenues by selling concentrates and syrups to independent bottling partners. In 2009,
approximately 79 percent of our worldwide unit case volume was produced and distributed by bottling partners in which the Company did not have a controlling interest. As independent companies,
our bottling partners, some of which are publicly traded companies, make their own business decisions that may not always align with our interests. In addition, many of our bottling partners have the
right to manufacture or distribute their own products or certain products of other beverage companies. If we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottling partners through a
combination of pricing and marketing and advertising support, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profits, may be detrimental to our Company or our brands, or
they may devote more of their energy and resources to business opportunities or products other than those of the Company. Such actions could, in the long run, have an adverse effect on our
profitability. 

 If our bottling partners' financial condition deteriorates, our business and financial results could be affected.  

We derive a significant portion of our net operating revenues from sales of concentrates and syrups to our bottling partners and, therefore, the
success of our business depends on our bottling partners' financial strength and profitability. While under our bottling partners' agreements we generally have the right to unilaterally change the
prices we charge for our concentrates and syrups, our ability to do so may be materially limited by our bottling partners' financial condition and their ability to pass price increases along to their
customers. In addition, we have investments in certain of our bottling partners, which we account for under the equity method, and our operating results include our proportionate share of such
bottling partners' income or loss. Our bottling partners' financial condition is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our and their control, including competitive and
general market conditions in the territories in which they operate, the availability of capital and other financing resources on reasonable terms, loss of major customers, or disruptions of bottling
operations that may be caused by strikes, work stoppages, labor unrest or natural disasters. A deterioration of the financial condition or results of operations of one or more of our major bottling
partners could adversely affect our net operating revenues from sales of concentrates and syrups; could result in a decrease in our equity income; and could negatively affect the carrying values of
our investments in bottling partners, resulting in asset write-offs. 

 Increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.  

We are subject to income tax in the United States and in numerous other jurisdictions in which we generate net operating revenues. Increases in
income tax rates could reduce our after-tax income from affected jurisdictions. In addition, there have been proposals to reform U.S. tax laws that could significantly impact how U.S.
multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. We earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will
pass, if enacted several of the proposals being considered could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. 

 Increased or new indirect taxes in the United States or in one or more of our other major markets could negatively affect our business.  

Our business operations are subject to numerous duties or taxes that are not based on income, sometimes referred to as "indirect taxes," including
import duties, excise taxes, sales or value-added taxes, property taxes and payroll taxes, in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including indirect taxes imposed by state and local
governments. In addition, in early 2009, as part of the proposed health care reform legislation, the United States Congress considered imposing a federal excise tax on beverages sweetened with sugar,
HFCS or other nutritive sweeteners to offset part of the cost of implementing the proposed legislation. The proposed federal excise tax would have applied to our sparkling, 

14




 


juice
and juice-drink and sports beverages. While this proposal has not been included in the health care bills currently before the United States Congress, there is no assurance that it will not be
reintroduced in the future. In addition, as federal, state and local governments experience significant budget deficits, some lawmakers have proposed singling out beverages among a plethora of
revenue-raising items. Increases in or the imposition of new indirect taxes on our business operations or products would increase the cost of products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers,
make our products less affordable. 

 If we are unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or we or our bottling partners experience strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest, our
business could suffer.  

Many of our associates at our key manufacturing locations and bottling plants are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If we are unable to
renew such agreements on satisfactory terms, our labor costs could increase, which would affect our profit margins. In addition, many of our bottling partners' employees are represented by labor
unions. Strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor unrest at any of our major manufacturing facilities or at our major bottlers' plants could impair our ability to supply concentrates and syrups
to our bottling partners or our bottlers' ability to supply finished beverages to customers, which would reduce our revenues and could expose us to customer claims. 


 Increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of energy could affect our profitability.  

We and our bottling partners operate a large fleet of trucks and other motor vehicles to distribute and deliver beverage products to customers. In
addition, we and our bottlers use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate our concentrate and bottling plants. An increase in the price, disruption of
supply or shortage of fuel and other energy sources that may be caused by increasing demand or by events such as natural disasters, power outages or the like would increase our and the
Coca-Cola system's operating costs and, therefore, could negatively impact our profitability. 

 Increase in the cost, disruption of supply or shortage of ingredients or packaging materials could harm our business.  

We and our bottling partners use various ingredients in our business, including HFCS, sucrose, aspartame, saccharin, acesulfame potassium, sucralose,
ascorbic acid, citric acid, phosphoric acid and orange and other fruit juice concentrates, as well as packaging materials such as PET for bottles and aluminum for cans. The prices for these
ingredients and packaging materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. Substantial increases in the prices of our or our bottling partners' ingredients and packaging materials, to the extent
they cannot be recouped through increases in the prices of finished beverage products, would increase our and the Coca-Cola system's operating costs and could reduce our profitability.
Increases in the prices of our finished products resulting from higher ingredient and packaging material costs could affect affordability in some markets and reduce Coca-Cola system sales.
In addition, some of these ingredients, such as aspartame, acesulfame potassium, sucralose, saccharin and ascorbic acid, as well as some of the packaging containers, such as aluminum cans, are
available from a limited number of suppliers, some of which are located in countries experiencing political or other risks. We cannot assure you that we and our bottling partners will be able to
maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. An increase in the cost, a sustained interruption in the supply, or a shortage of some of these ingredients, packaging materials
or cans and other containers that may be caused by a deterioration of our or our bottling partners' relationships with suppliers; by supplier quality and reliability issues; or by events such as
natural disasters, power outages, labor strikes, political uncertainties or governmental instability, or the like, could negatively impact our net revenues and profits. 

 Changes in laws and regulations relating to beverage containers and packaging could increase our costs and reduce demand for our products.  

We and our bottlers currently offer nonrefillable, recyclable containers in the United States and in various other markets around the world. Legal
requirements have been enacted in various jurisdictions in the United States and overseas requiring that deposits or certain ecotaxes or fees be charged for the sale, marketing and use of certain
nonrefillable beverage containers. Other proposals relating to beverage container deposits, recycling, ecotax and/or product stewardship have been introduced in various jurisdictions in the United
States and overseas, and we anticipate that similar legislation or regulations may be proposed in the future at local, state and federal levels, both in the United States and elsewhere. Consumers'
increased concerns and changing attitudes about solid waste streams and environmental responsibility and related publicity could result in the adoption of such legislation or regulations. If these 

15




 


types
of requirements are adopted and implemented on a large scale in any of the major markets in which we operate, they could affect our costs or require changes in our distribution model, which
could reduce our net operating revenues or profitability. In addition, container-deposit laws, or regulations that impose additional burdens on retailers, could cause a shift away from our products to
retailer-proprietary brands, which could impact the demand for our products in the affected markets. 

 Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may inhibit sales of affected products.  

Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements relating to the content or perceived adverse
health consequences of certain of our products. If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or
regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products. One such law, which is in effect in California, requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the
state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. This law exposes all food and beverage producers to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products because it does not
recognize any generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning is not required. Consequently, the detection of even a trace amount of a listed substance can subject an affected
product to the requirement of a warning label. The Company is not currently required to display warnings under this law on any Company beverages produced for sale in California. In the future,
however, caffeine and other substances detectable in Company products may be added to the list pursuant to this law and the related regulations as they currently exist or as they may be amended. If a
substance found in one of our products is added to the list, or if the increasing sensitivity of detection methodology results in the detection of an infinitesimal quantity of a listed substance in
one of our beverages produced for sale in California, the resulting warning requirements or adverse publicity could negatively affect our sales. 

 Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States or in other major markets could negatively impact our financial performance.  

Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the United States or in one or more of our other major markets,
could negatively affect the affordability of, and consumer demand for, some of our beverages. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing
purchases of our products or by shifting away from our beverages to lower-priced products offered by other companies. Softer consumer demand for our beverages in the United States or in other major
markets could reduce the Coca-Cola system's profitability and could negatively affect our financial performance. 

 Unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets could hurt our business.  

We derive a significant portion of our net operating revenues from sales of our products in international markets. In 2009, our operations outside
the United States accounted for approximately 74 percent of our net operating revenues. Unfavorable economic and political conditions in certain of our international markets, including civil
unrest and governmental changes, could undermine consumer confidence and reduce the consumers' purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. In addition, product boycotts resulting from
political activism could reduce demand for our products, while restrictions on our ability to transfer earnings or capital across borders which may be imposed or expanded as a result of political and
economic instability could impact our profitability. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentences, the unfavorable business environment in Venezuela, the current unstable economic and
political conditions and civil unrest and political activism in the Middle East, India, Pakistan or the Philippines, the unstable situation in Iraq or the continuation or escalation of terrorist
activities could adversely impact our international business. 

 Changes in commercial and market practices within the European Economic Area may affect the sales of our products.  

We and our bottlers are subject to an Undertaking, rendered legally binding in June 2005 by a decision of the European Commission, pursuant to which
we committed to make certain changes in our commercial and market practices in the European Economic Area Member States. The Undertaking applies in any of the listed 27 countries in which certain of
our sparkling beverages account for over 40 percent of national sales and twice the nearest competitor's share. The commitments we and our bottlers made in the Undertaking relate broadly to
exclusivity, percentage-based purchasing commitments, transparency, target rebates, tying, assortment or range commitments, and agreements concerning products of other suppliers. The Undertaking also
applies to shelf space commitments in 

16




 


agreements
with take-home customers and to financing and availability agreements in the on-premise channel. In addition, the Undertaking includes commitments that are
applicable to commercial arrangements concerning the installation and use of technical equipment (such as coolers, fountain equipment and vending machines). Adjustments to our business model in the
European Economic Area Member States as a result of these commitments or of future interpretations of European Union competition laws and regulations could adversely affect our sales in the European
Economic Area markets. 

 Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.  

We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood
of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or
legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. We caution
you that actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. In addition, we have bottling and other business operations in markets with
high-risk legal compliance environments. Our policies and procedures require strict compliance by our associates and agents with all United States and local laws and regulations applicable
to our business operations, including those prohibiting improper payments to government officials. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that our policies, procedures and related training programs will
always ensure full compliance by our associates and agents with all applicable legal requirements. Improper conduct by our associates or agents could damage our reputation in the United States and
internationally or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits. 

 Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our products.  

The sales of our products are influenced to some extent by weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unusually cold or rainy weather
during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for our products and contribute to lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for such periods. 

 If we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer.  

Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products and effectively build up brand image for new products and brand
extensions. We cannot assure you, however, that additional expenditures and our continuing commitment to advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products' brand image and on
consumer preferences. Changes in consumers' media preferences, such as the shift away from traditional mass media to the Internet, may undermine the effectiveness of our media advertising campaigns in
reaching consumers and may increase our marketing costs. Product quality issues, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of
the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. Allegations of product contamination, even if untrue, may require us from time to time to recall a beverage or other product from
all of the markets in which the affected production was distributed. Product recalls could negatively affect our profitability and brand image. In some emerging markets, the production and sale of
counterfeit or "spurious" products, which we and our bottling partners may not be able to fully combat, may damage the image and reputation of our products. Also, adverse publicity surrounding obesity
and health concerns related to our products, water usage, labor relations and the like, and campaigns by activists attempting to connect our system to environmental issues, water shortages or
workplace or human rights violations in certain countries in which we operate, could negatively affect our Company's overall reputation and our products' acceptance by consumers. 

 Changes in the legal and regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate could increase our costs or reduce our net operating revenues.  

Our Company's business is subject to various laws and regulations in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do business, including
laws and regulations relating to competition, product safety, advertising and labeling, container deposits, recycling or stewardship, the protection of the environment, and employment and labor
practices. In the United States, the production, distribution and sale of many of our products are subject to, among others, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act,
the Lanham Act, state consumer protection 

17




 


laws,
the Occupational Safety and Health Act, various environmental statutes, as well as various state and local statutes and regulations. Outside the United States, the production, distribution,
sale, advertising and labeling of many of our products are also subject to various laws and regulations. Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including
increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas
emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us and our bottling partners, which could
affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could affect our net operating revenues. 

 Changes in accounting standards could affect our reported financial results.  

New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to our Company from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing
standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. 

 If we are not able to achieve our overall long-term goals, the value of an investment in our Company could be negatively affected.  

We have established and publicly announced certain long-term growth objectives. These objectives were based on our evaluation of our
growth prospects, which are generally based on volume and sales potential of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others, and on an assessment of the potential price and product
mix. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the required volume or revenue growth or the mix of products necessary to achieve our long-term growth objectives. 


 If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted.  

We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular,
we depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and electronic communications among our locations around the world and between Company personnel and our
bottlers and other customers and suppliers. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable
to prevent such breaches, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. 

 We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges which could materially affect our financial results.  

We assess our goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets as well as our other long-lived assets as and when required by accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States to determine whether they are impaired and, if they are, we record appropriate impairment charges. Our equity method investees also perform
impairment tests, and we record our proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by them adjusted, as appropriate, for the impact of items such as basis differences, deferred taxes and deferred
gains. We also record our proportionate share of restructuring charges recorded by equity method investees. For example, in 2009 we recorded charges of approximately $40 million related to
asset impairments due to a change in the expected useful life of an intangible asset and a change in disposal strategy related to a building that is no longer occupied; charges of approximately
$86 million to equity income (loss) — net, representing our proportionate share of impairment and restructuring charges recorded by certain equity investees, and charges of
approximately $27 million to other income (loss) — net due to an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of a cost method investment; in 2008
we recorded charges of approximately $1.6 billion to equity income (loss) — net, representing our proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by CCE, and a charge of
approximately $81 million to other income (loss) — net related to other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of certain
available-for-sale securities; and in 2007 we recorded net charges of approximately $150 million to equity income (loss) — net, representing our
proportionate share of impairment and restructuring charges, net of our proportionate share of benefits related to tax rate changes, recorded by certain equity investees. It is possible that we may be
required to record significant impairment charges or our proportionate share of significant charges recorded by equity investees in the future and, if we do so, our operating or equity income could be
materially adversely affected. 

18




 


 If we do not successfully integrate and manage our Company-owned or controlled bottling operations, our results could suffer.  

While we primarily manufacture, market and sell concentrates and syrups to our bottling partners, from time to time we acquire or take control of
bottling operations. Often, though not always, we acquire or take control of bottling operations in underperforming markets where we believe we can use our resources and expertise to improve
performance. We may incur unforeseen liabilities and obligations in connection with acquiring, taking control of or managing bottling operations and may encounter unexpected difficulties and costs in
restructuring and integrating them into our Company's operating and internal control structures. We may also experience delays in extending our Company's internal control over financial reporting to
newly acquired or controlled bottling operations, which may increase the risk of failure to prevent misstatements in such operations' financial records and in our consolidated financial statements. In
2009, net operating revenues generated by Company-owned or controlled bottling operations (which are included in the Bottling Investments operating segment) represented approximately 26 percent
of our Company's consolidated net operating revenues. Therefore, our financial performance depends in large part on how well we can manage and improve the performance of Company-owned or controlled
bottling operations. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to achieve our strategic and financial objectives for such bottling operations. If we are unable to achieve such objectives,
our consolidated results could be negatively affected. 

 Climate change may negatively affect our business.  

There is increasing concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Decreased agricultural
productivity in certain regions as a result of changing weather patterns may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as sugarcane, corn, beets, citrus, coffee and
tea, which are important ingredients for our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact
demand for our products. Climate change may also exacerbate water scarcity and cause a further deterioration of water quality in affected regions, which could limit water availability for our system's
bottling operations. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us and our
bottling partners to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results
of operations. 

 Global or regional catastrophic events could impact our operations and financial results.  

Because of our global presence and worldwide operations, our business can be affected by large-scale terrorist acts, especially those directed
against the United States or other major industrialized countries; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; major natural disasters; or widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases such as H1N1
influenza, avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome (generally known as SARS). Such events could impair our ability to manage our business around the world, could disrupt our supply of raw
materials, and could impact production, transportation and delivery of concentrates, syrups and finished products. In addition, such events could cause disruption of regional or global economic
activity, which can affect consumers' purchasing power in the affected areas and, therefore, reduce demand for our products.  

<A
NAME="ce19701_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B