. — “Import Restrictions and Other Government Regulations” and “Risk Factors” — “We primarily use foreign manufacturing contractors and independent third-party agents to source our finished goods, which poses legal, regulatory, political and economic risks to our business operations.”Manufacturing contractors and agents operate under the close supervision of our global manufacturing divisions and buying agents headquartered in North America, Europe and Asia. All products are produced according to our specifications. Production staff monitors manufacturing at supplier facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the final product. Quality assurance is focused on as early as possible in the production process, allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption.DistributionOur primary distribution facility in the United States is the 1,284,400 square foot leased facility in Whittier, California, which we operate. We also have several smaller distribution facilities across the United States. Outside of the United States, we have regional distribution centers in Canada, Holland, Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong, which are either leased or operated by third-parties. In April 2015, we expanded our existing distribution facility in Whittier, California to service our e-commerce site. In addition, during Fiscal 2016, we began building our own 1,076,390 square foot distribution facility in Holland, which is expected to be completed in Fiscal 2017 and will be the first Company-owned and operated distribution facility. The new facility will support all of our European operations, including the e-commerce sites expected to be launched in Fiscal 2017.Intellectual PropertyWe own the Michael Kors and MICHAEL Michael Kors trademarks, as well as other material trademark rights related to the production, marketing and distribution of our products, both in the United States and in other countries in which our products are principally sold. We also have trademark applications pending for a variety of related logos. We aggressively police our trademarks and pursue infringers both domestically and internationally. We also pursue counterfeiters in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, the Far East and elsewhere in the world in both online and offline channels through leads generated internally, as well as through our network of customs authorities, law enforcement, legal representatives and brand specialists around the world.Pursuant to an agreement entered into by Mr. Kors in connection with the acquisition by our former principal shareholder of a majority interest in the Company in 2003, Mr. Kors (i) represented that all intellectual property rights used in connection with the Company’s business at such time were owned exclusively by the Company, (ii) assigned to the Company (to the extent not already assigned to and owned by the Company) exclusive worldwide rights in perpetuity to the “Michael Kors” name and trademark and all derivations thereof, as well as to Mr. Kors’ signature and likeness, and all goodwill associated therewith, (iii) agreed not to take any action against the Company inconsistent with such ownership by the Company (including, without limitation, by asserting any privacy, publicity or moral rights) and (iv) agreed not to use, whether or not he is employed by the Company, any of such intellectual property in connection with any commercial enterprise (provided that he may use the name Michael Kors as his legal name only, and not as service mark or trade name, to identify himself personally and to engage in charitable activities and other activities that do not compete with any businesses of the Company).EmployeesAt the end of Fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, we had approximately 12,689, 11,094 and 9,184 total employees, respectively. As of April 2, 2016, we had approximately 6,144 full-time employees and approximately 6,545 part-time employees. Approximately 10,410 of our employees were engaged in retail selling and administrative positions, and our remaining employees were engaged in other aspects of our business as of April 2, 2016. None of our employees are currently covered by collective bargaining agreements and we believe that our relations with our employees are good.9Table of ContentsCompetitionWe face intense competition in the product lines and markets in which we compete. Our products compete with other branded products within their product category. In varying degrees, depending on the product category involved, we compete on the basis of style, price, customer service, quality, brand prestige and recognition, among other bases. In our wholesale business, we compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors of accessories, footwear and apparel for the limited space available for product display. Moreover, the general availability of manufacturing contractors allows new entrants easy access to the markets in which we compete, which may increase the number of our competitors and adversely affect our competitive position and our business.Over the last several years the accessories category, in particular, has grown, encouraging the entry of new competitors, as well as increasing the competition from existing competitors. We believe, however, that we have significant competitive advantages because of our brand recognition and the acceptance of our brand name by consumers. See .“Risk Factors" — "We primarily use foreign manufacturing contractors and independent third-party agents to source our finished goods, which poses legal, regulatory, political and economic risks to our business operations.”Accessories, footwear and apparel sold by us are also subject to regulation in the United States and other countries by governmental agencies, including, in the United States, the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Products Safety Commission. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing and product safety. We are also subject to environmental laws, rules and regulations. Similarly, accessories, footwear and apparel sold by us are also subject to import regulations in the United States and other countries concerning the use of wildlife products for commercial and non-commercial trade, including the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the current fiscal year or in the near future. Our licensed products and licensing partners are also subject to regulation. Our agreements require our licensing partners to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and we are not aware of any violations that could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results.We are also required to comply with the disclosure requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to the use of conflict minerals in our products. As a result, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional costs to comply with this rule.Although we have not suffered any material restriction from doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce additional trademarks to new markets.10Table of ContentsItem 1A.     Risk FactorsYou should carefully read this entire report, including, without limitation, the following risk factors and the section of this annual report entitled “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.The accessories, footwear and apparel industries are heavily influenced by general macroeconomic cycles that affect consumer spending, and a prolonged period of depressed consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.The accessories, footwear and apparel industries have historically been subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that can affect consumer spending habits. Purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is lower. The success of our operations depends on a number of factors impacting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, wages and unemployment, housing prices, consumer debt, interest rates, fuel and energy costs, taxation and political conditions. A continuation or worsening of the current weakness in the economy may negatively affect consumer and wholesale purchases of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, both within North America and internationally, and increased competition based on a number of factors could cause our profitability to decline.We face intense competition from other domestic and foreign accessories, footwear and apparel producers and retailers, including the following brands, among others, Coach, Burberry, Ralph Lauren, Hermès, Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Marc Jacobs, Chloé, Tory Burch, Prada, Kate Spade, Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein, as well as through third party distribution channels, such as e-commerce, department stores and specialty stores. Competition is based on a number of factors, including, without limitation, the following:•anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner;•establishing and maintaining favorable brand-name recognition;•determining and maintaining product quality;•maintaining key employees;•maintaining and growing market share;•developing quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers;•establishing and maintaining acceptable relationships with retail customers;•pricing products appropriately;•providing appropriate service and support to retailers;•optimizing retail and supply chain capabilities;•determining size and location of retail and department store selling space; and•protecting intellectual property.In addition, some of our competitors may be significantly larger and more diversified than us and may have significantly greater financial, technological, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the accessories, footwear and apparel industries, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. The general availability of manufacturing contractors and agents also allows new entrants easy access to the markets in which we compete, which may increase the number of our competitors and adversely affect our competitive position and our business. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced sales, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.Competition, along with other factors such as consolidation, changes in consumer spending patterns and a highly promotional environment, could also result in significant pricing pressure. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to our wholesale customers and retail consumers, which could cause our gross margins to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.11Table of ContentsOur retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop and we may be unable to maintain the same comparable store sales or average sales per square foot that we have in the past, which could cause our share price to decline.Reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if such events impact our customers desire to travel to our retail stores. In addition, other factors that could impact the success of our retail stores include: (i) the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; (ii) the other tenants occupying space at the mall; (iii) vacancies within the mall; (iv) increased competition in areas where the malls are located; (v) the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls; and (vi) a shift toward online shopping. A decline in consumer traffic could have a negative effect on our comparable store sales. We may not be able to maintain the levels of comparable store sales that we have experienced historically. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our historic average sales per square foot as we move into new markets. If our future comparable store sales or average sales per square foot decline or fail to meet market expectations, the price of our ordinary shares could decline. In addition, the aggregate results of operations of our stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect both comparable store sales and average sales per square foot, including, among others, fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may incur excess inventory for some of our products and miss opportunities for other products. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results and average sales per square foot in the future to be materially lower than recent periods and our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and result in a decline in the price of our ordinary shares.We may not be able to respond to changing fashion and retail trends in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our brand, business, financial condition and operating results.The accessories, footwear and apparel industries have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. We believe that our success is largely dependent on our brand image and ability to anticipate and respond promptly to changing consumer demands and fashion trends in the design, styling, production, merchandising and pricing of products. If we do not correctly gauge consumer needs and fashion trends and respond appropriately, consumers may not purchase our products and our brand name and brand image may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brand image to be outdated or associate our brand with styles that are no longer popular or trend-setting. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our brand, business, financial condition and operating results.The success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable digital experience for our customers. We strive to give our customers a jet-set shopping experience both in stores and through digital technologies, such as computers, mobile phones, tablets, and other devices. We also use social media to interact with our customers and enhance their shopping experience. Our inability to develop and continuously improve our digital footprint could negatively affect our ability to compete with other brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies.We face additional risks associated with our strategy to expand internationally through the acquisition of our geographic licensees. On January 1, 2016, we transitioned the previously licensed business in South Korea to a wholly owned operation and on May 31, 2016, we acquired our licensees in China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan. We may not be able to successfully integrate the business of any licensee that we acquire into our own business or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration. The potential difficulties that we may face that could cause the results of the acquisition to not be in line with our expectations, include, among others:•failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;•delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets;•higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties;•unanticipated issues in integrating logistics, information and other systems;•unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;12Table of Contents•retaining key employees;•operating risks inherent in the acquired business and our business;•diversion of the attention and resources of management;•assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence or other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; and•the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.Our acquisitions may not perform as well as initially expected which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, on June 28, 2015, we obtained a controlling interest in our joint venture in Latin America (MK Panama) causing us to consolidate this joint venture into our operations beginning with the second quarter of Fiscal 2016. As a result of our controlling interest in MK Panama, we will incur additional charges which could negatively affect our operating results or financial condition, and we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment. Our joint venture also exposes us to risks to the extent that our joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; take actions contrary to our policies or objectives; experience financial or other difficulties; or be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture agreement, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results.We are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. If one or more of our distribution facilities experiences operational difficulties or becomes inoperable, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We operate a limited number of distribution facilities. Our ability to meet the needs of our wholesale customers and our own retail stores and e-commerce sites depends on the proper operation of these distribution facilities. If any of these distribution facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could suffer a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our retail and wholesale customers. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the damaged facility. Any of the foregoing factors could result in decreased sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.In addition, we have been moving into new and larger facilities as needed, to increase our capacity as we grow, and have been concurrently implementing new warehouse management systems to further support our efforts to operate with increased efficiency and flexibility. There are risks inherent in operating in new distribution environments and implementing new warehouse management systems, including operational difficulties that may arise with such transitions. We may experience shipping delays should there be any disruptions in our new warehouse management systems or warehouses themselves.A material disruption in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely extensively on our information technology (“IT”) systems to track inventory, manage our supply chain, record and process transactions, manage customer communications, summarize results and manage our business. The failure of our IT systems to operate properly or effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or difficulty in integrating new systems, could adversely affect our business. In addition, we have e-commerce websites in the United States and Canada, and plans for additional e-commerce sites internationally. Our IT systems and websites may be subject to damage and/or interruption from power outages, computer, network and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, “hackers”, security breaches, usage errors by our employees and bad acts by our customers and website visitors. If our IT systems or websites are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data (including our customer data) and interruptions or delays in our operations in the interim. Any significant disruption in our IT systems or websites could harm our reputation and credibility, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.13Table of ContentsPrivacy breaches and other cyber security risks related to our business could negatively affect our reputation, credibility and business.We are dependent on information technology systems and networks for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce site and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. We are responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and also rely on third party vendors for the storage, processing and transmission of personal and Company information. Consumers, lawmakers and consumer advocates alike are increasingly concerned over the security of personal information transmitted over the internet, consumer identity theft and privacy. In addition to taking the necessary precautions ourselves, we require that third-party service providers implement reasonable security measures to protect our employees’ and customers’ identity and privacy. We do not, however, control these third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future. Likewise, our systems and technology are subject to the risk of system failures, viruses, “hackers” and other causes that are out of our control. A significant breach of customer, employee or Company data could damage the Company’s reputation, its relationship with customers and the Michael Kors brand, and could result in lost sales, sizable fines, significant breach-notification costs and lawsuits, as well as adversely affect results of operations. The Company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, or to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address those threats.Our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.Our results of operations for our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars during financial statement consolidation. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions could impact our consolidated results of operations. In addition, we have intercompany notes amongst certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, which may be denominated in a currency other than the local currency of a particular reporting entity. As a result of using a currency other than the functional currency of the related subsidiary, results of these operations may be adversely affected during times of significant fluctuation between the functional currency of that subsidiary and the denomination currency of the note. We continuously monitor our foreign currency exposure and hedge a portion of our foreign subsidiaries’ foreign currency-denominated inventory purchases to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. However, we cannot fully anticipate all of our foreign currency exposures and cannot ensure that these hedges will fully offset the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.As a result of operating retail stores and concessions in various countries outside of the U.S., we are also exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, the British Pound, the Japanese Yen, the Korean Won and the Canadian Dollar. A substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar could require us to raise our retail prices or reduce our profit margins in various locations outside of the U.S. In addition, our sales and profitability could be negatively impacted if consumers in those markets were unwilling to purchase our products at increased prices.We face risks associated with operating in international markets and our strategy to continue to expand internationally.We operate on a global basis, with approximately 29.9% of our total revenue from operations outside of the U.S. during Fiscal 2016. As a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including political and economic instability in foreign countries, laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, potential negative consequences from changes in taxation policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism, military actions or other conditions. Economic instability and unsettled regional and global conflicts may negatively affect consumer spending by foreign tourists and local consumers in the various regions where we operate, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We also sell our products at varying retail price points based on geographic location that yield different gross profit margins, and we achieve different operating profit margins, depending on geographic region, due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size, occupancy costs, labor costs and retail pricing. Changes in any one or more of these factors could result in lower revenues, increased costs, and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results.There are some countries where we do not yet have significant operating experience, and in most of these countries we face established competitors with significantly more operating experience in those locations. Many countries have different operational characteristics, including, but not limited to, employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate (including lease terms) and local reporting or legal requirements. Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these countries and, as a result, sales of our product may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. In addition, in many of these countries there is significant competition to attract and retain experienced and talented employees. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.14Table of ContentsThe departure of our founder, members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.We depend on the services and management experience of our founder and executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. In particular, Mr. Kors, our Honorary Chairman and Chief Creative Officer, has provided design and executive leadership to the Company since its inception. He is instrumental to our marketing and publicity strategy and is closely identified with both the brand that bears his name and our Company in general. Our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with Mr. Kors’ name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. Mr. Kors has the right to terminate his employment with us without cause. In addition, the leadership of John D. Idol, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Joseph B. Parsons, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Treasurer, has been a critical element of our success. We also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our executive officers and key employees. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Kors and certain of our other executive officers, including Mr. Idol and Mr. Parsons, we may not be able to retain the services of such individuals in the future. The loss of services of one or more of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to, or relating to, the loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.The growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our growth strategies, including our efforts to open and operate new retail stores, and to increase the number of department stores and specialty stores that sell our products.As part of our growth strategy, we intend to open and operate new retail stores and shop-in-shops within select department stores, both domestically and internationally. Our ability to successfully open and operate new retail stores, including concessions, and shop-in-shops depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to:•identify new markets where our products and brand image will be accepted or the performance of our retail stores, including concessions, and shop-in-shops will be considered successful;•negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances, to secure suitable store locations;•hire, train and retain personnel and field management;•assimilate new personnel and field management into our corporate culture;•source sufficient inventory levels; and•successfully integrate new retail stores, including concessions, and shop-in-shops into our existing operations and information technology systems.We will encounter pre-opening costs and we may encounter initial losses when new retail stores, including concessions, and shop-in-shops commence operations. Certain of our European stores require investments in the form of key money to secure prime locations, which may be paid to landlords or existing lessees. While we expect to open a number of additional retail stores, including concessions, and shop-in-shops in the future, there can be no assurance that we will open the planned number, that we will recover the expenditure costs associated with opening these new retail stores, including concessions, and shop-in-shops or that the operation of these new venues will be successful or profitable. Any changes from our initial expectations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We are subject to risks associated with leasing retail space under long-term, non-cancelable leases and are required to make substantial lease payments under our operating leases. Any failure to make these lease payments when due could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.We do not own any of our store facilities; instead, we lease all of our stores under operating leases. Our leases generally have terms of up to 10 years. Our leases generally require a fixed annual rent and most require the payment of additional rent if store sales exceed a negotiated amount. Certain of our European stores also require initial investments in the form of key money to secure prime locations, which may be paid to landlords or existing lessees. Generally, our leases are “net” leases, which require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases at our option. Payments under these operating leases account for a significant portion of our operating costs. For example, as of April 2, 2016, we were party to operating leases associated with our stores as well as other corporate facilities requiring future minimum lease payments aggregating to $1.079 billion through Fiscal 2021 and approximately $746.7 million thereafter through Fiscal 2033. We expect that any new stores we open under operating leases will have terms similar to those contained in leases we have entered previously, which will further increase our operating lease expenses.15Table of ContentsOur substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including, among others:•increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing;•requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or the industry in which we compete; and•placing us at a disadvantage with respect to some of our competitors.We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us, we may not be able to service our operating lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or fund our other liquidity and capital needs.Our current and future licensing arrangements may not be successful and may make us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control.We have entered into a select number of product licensing agreements with companies that produce and sell, under our trademarks, products requiring specialized expertise. We have also entered into a number of select licensing agreements pursuant to which we have granted third parties certain rights to distribute and sell our products in certain geographical areas, such as the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Brazil, certain parts of Asia and Australia. In addition, we have a joint venture that covers the distribution and sale of products and the operation of retail stores in Latin America and the Caribbean (excluding Brazil). In the future, we may enter into additional licensing arrangements. Although we take steps to carefully select our licensing partners, such arrangements may not be successful. Our licensing partners may fail to fulfill their obligations under their license agreements or have interests that differ from or conflict with our own, such as the timing of new store openings, the pricing of our products and the offering of competitive products. In addition, the risks applicable to the business of our licensing partners may be different than the risks applicable to our business, including risks associated with each such partner’s ability to:•obtain capital;•exercise operational and financial control over its business;•manage its labor relations;•maintain relationships with suppliers;•manage its credit and bankruptcy risks; and•maintain customer relationships.Any of the foregoing risks, or the inability of any of our licensing partners to successfully market our products or otherwise conduct its business, may result in loss of revenue and competitive harm to our operations in regions or product categories where we have entered into such licensing arrangements.We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. Although we attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over store location and design, product design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our stores and products, we may not be able to control the use by our licensing partners of our brand. The misuse of our brand by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of large wholesale customers, and the loss of any of these wholesale customers could substantially reduce our total revenue.A small number of our wholesale customers account for a significant portion of our net sales. Net sales to our five largest wholesale customers represented 25.8% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2016 and 26.3% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2015. Our largest wholesale customer, Macy's, accounted for 12.7% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2016 and 13.7% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2015. We do not have written agreements with any of our wholesale customers, and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. A decision by any of our major wholesale customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. During the past several years, the retail industry has experienced 16Table of Contentsa great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, and we expect such changes will continue. In addition, store closings by our wholesale customers decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and/or may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores’ target markets. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large wholesale customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our wholesale customers. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Increases in the cost of raw materials could increase our production costs and cause our operating results and financial condition to suffer.The costs of raw materials used in our products are affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of raw materials and our business can be materially affected by dramatic movements in prices of raw materials. The ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in raw materials prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any significant increase in these prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We primarily use foreign manufacturing contractors and independent third-party agents to source our finished goods, which poses legal, regulatory, political and economic risks to our business operations.Our products are primarily produced by, and purchased or procured from, independent manufacturing contractors located mainly in Asia and Europe. A manufacturing contractor’s failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet the required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any of the following factors could negatively affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results:•political or labor instability, labor shortages (stemming from labor disputes or otherwise), or increases in costs of labor or production in countries where manufacturing contractors and suppliers are located;•significant delays or disruptions in delivery of our products due to labor disputes or strikes at the location of the source of our goods and/or at ports of entry;•political or military conflict involving the United States, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials and increase transportation costs;•heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods of time or could result in increased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands;•a significant decrease in availability or an increase in the cost of raw materials;•disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas;•the migration and development of manufacturing contractors, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced;•imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust in a timely manner to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed;•increases in the costs of fuel, travel and transportation;•imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports;•significant fluctuation of the value of the United States dollar against foreign currencies; and•restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located.17Table of ContentsWe do not have written agreements with any of our third-party manufacturing contractors. As a result, any single manufacturing contractor could unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. In Fiscal 2016, our largest manufacturing contractor, who primarily produces its products in China and who we have worked with for over ten years, accounted for the production of 26.7% of our finished products. Our inability to promptly replace manufacturing contractors that terminate their relationships with us or cease to provide high quality products in a timely and cost-efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, and impact the cost and availability of our goods.In addition, we use third-party agents to source our finished goods with numerous manufacturing contractors on our behalf. Any single agent could unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. In Fiscal 2016, our largest third-party agent, whose primary place of business is Hong Kong and who we have worked with for over 10 years, sourced approximately 14.9% of our purchases of finished goods. Our inability to promptly replace agents that terminate their relationships with us or cease to provide high quality service in a timely and cost-efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.If we fail to comply with labor laws, or if our manufacturing contractors fail to use acceptable, ethical business practices, our business and reputation could suffer.We are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. Compliance with these laws and regulations may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation.In addition, we require our manufacturing contractors to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. Additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those three areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturing contractors to determine compliance. However, we do not control our manufacturing contractors or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturing contractors violates applicable labor or other laws, rules or regulations or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products.There are risks inherent to importing our products. Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia is subject to duties and most of the countries to which we ship could impose safeguard quotas to protect their local industries from import surges that threaten to create market disruption. The United States and other countries may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported at unfairly traded prices that, in such increased quantities, cause or threaten injury to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as “anti-dumping” actions). If dumping is suspected in the United States, the United States government may self-initiate a dumping case on behalf of a particular industry. Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the United States government to offset subsidies provided by a foreign government to foreign manufacturers if the importation of such subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a United States industry. In addition, accessories, footwear and apparel sold by us are also subject to import regulations in the United States and other countries concerning the use of wildlife products for commercial and non-commercial trade, including the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (“F&W”). F&W requires that we obtain a license to import animal and fauna that are subject to regulation by F&W and can revoke (or refuse to renew) this license, seize and possibly destroy our shipments and/or fine the Company for F&W violations. The imposition of duties and quotas, the initiation of an anti-dumping action and/or the repercussions of F&W violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and others may allege that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights.Our trademarks, including MICHAEL KORS and MICHAEL MICHAEL KORS, logos and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, the Far East and elsewhere in the world in both online and offline channels. Our brand enjoys significant worldwide consumer recognition, and the generally higher pricing of our products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters to infringe on our brand. We work with customs authorities, law enforcement, legal representatives and brand specialists globally in an effort to prevent the sale of counterfeit Michael Kors products, but we cannot guarantee the extent to which our efforts to prevent counterfeiting of our brand and other intellectual property infringement will be successful. Such counterfeiting and other infringement could dilute our brand and harm our reputation and business.18Table of ContentsOur trademark applications may fail to result in registered trademarks or provide the scope of coverage sought, and others may seek to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in trademarks that are similar to ours or trademarks that we license and/or market, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, trademark owners may have prior rights to our trademarks or similar trademarks. Furthermore, certain foreign countries may not protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we become involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to trademarks similar to some of our brands. Any litigation or dispute involving the scope or enforceability of our intellectual property rights or any allegation that we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others could be costly and time-consuming and could result, if determined adversely to us, in harm to our competitive position.Fluctuations in our tax obligations and changes in tax laws and regulations may have a material impact on our future effective tax rates and results of operations.Our subsidiaries are subject to taxation in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, with the applicable tax rates varying by jurisdiction. As a result, our overall effective tax rate is effected by the proportion of earnings from the various tax jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of taxable income and required reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any time, there are multiple tax years that are subject to examinations by various taxing authorities. The ultimate resolution of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may result in a settlement amount that differs from our original estimate. In addition, any proposed or future changes in tax laws and regulations or interpretations could have a material effect on our effective tax rates, financial condition, and results of operations.On March 26, 2015, the United Kingdom enacted new Diverted Profits Tax legislation (the “DPT”), which is effective on April 1, 2015. Under the DPT, profits of certain multinational enterprises (such as the Company) deemed to have been artificially diverted from the United Kingdom will be taxed at a rate of 25%. While the Company believes that all of its affiliated entities and the transactions among them have the required economic substance, there is no assurance that this legislation will not have a material effect on its results of operations and financial condition.We and our subsidiaries are also engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. Although we believe that these transactions reflect arm’s length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities. On October 5, 2015, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association of thirty four countries, including the U.S. and UK, released the final reports from its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plans. The BEPS recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties. Future tax reform resulting from this development may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities.Restrictive covenants in our credit agreement may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.We have a $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2015 Credit Facility”) under which Michael Kors Holdings Limited and its indirect wholly owned subsidiaries Michael Kors (USA), Inc. (“MKUSA”), Michael Kors (Europe) B.V., Michael Kors (Canada) Holdings Ltd. and Michael Kors (Switzerland) GmbH, are borrowers, and the borrowers and certain material subsidiaries provide unsecured guarantees. The credit agreement governing the terms of the 2015 Credit Facility restricts, among other things, asset dispositions, mergers and acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases and redemptions, other restricted payments, indebtedness, loans and investments, liens and affiliate transactions. The 2015 Credit Facility also contains customary events of default, including, but not limited to, payment defaults, material inaccuracy of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to certain indebtedness, certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, certain events under ERISA, material judgments, actual or asserted failure of any guaranty supporting the 2015 Credit Facility to be in full force and effect, and changes of control. If such an event of default occurs, the lenders under the 2015 Credit Facility would be entitled to take various actions, including, but not limited to, terminating the commitments and accelerating amounts outstanding under the 2015 Credit Facility. In addition, our credit agreement contains a financial covenant requiring us to maintain a leverage ratio of no greater than 3.5 to 1.0 (with the ratio being total consolidated indebtedness plus 6.0 times the consolidated rent expense for the last four consecutive fiscal quarters, to Consolidated EBITDAR for the last four consecutive fiscal quarters). See credit discussion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity”. The covenants in the 2015 Credit Facility, among other things, may limit our ability to fund our future working capital needs and capital expenditures, engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on debt.19Table of ContentsFailure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and cause a decline in the price of our ordinary shares.As a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and cause a decline in the price of our ordinary shares.Our share price may periodically fluctuate based on the accuracy of our earnings guidance or other forward-looking statements regarding our financial performance.Our business and long-range planning process is designed to maximize our long-term growth and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our shareholders. At the same time, however, we recognize that it is helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of net sales, earnings per share, comparable store sales and other financial metrics or projections. While we generally expect to provide updates to our financial guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. In addition, any longer-term guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance over a number of years. However, such long-range targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations. If, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside investment analysts, or others, our share price could be adversely affected. Investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in our share price.We periodically return value to shareholders through our share repurchase program. Investors may have an expectation that we will repurchase all shares available under our share repurchase program. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our share repurchase activity differs from investors’ expectations or if our share repurchase program were to terminate.Provisions in our organizational documents may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party.Our Memorandum and Articles of Association (together, as amended from time to time, our “Memorandum and Articles”) contains several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. These provisions include, among others:•our board of directors’ ability to amend the Memorandum and Articles to create and issue, from time to time, one or more classes of preference shares and, with respect to each such class, to fix the terms thereof by resolution;•provisions relating to the multiple classes and three-year terms of directors, the manner of election of directors, removal of directors and the appointment of directors upon an increase in the number of directors or vacancy on our board of directors;•restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call meetings and bring proposals before meetings;•elimination of the ability of shareholders to act by written consent; and•the requirement of the affirmative vote of 75% of the shares entitled to vote to amend certain provisions of our Memorandum and Articles.These provisions of our Memorandum and Articles could discourage potential takeover attempts and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for our ordinary shares in the future, which could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares.20Table of ContentsRights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law differ from those under United States law, and, accordingly, our shareholders may have fewer protections.Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles, the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended, the “BVI Act”) and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the British Virgin Islands and by the BVI Act. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states (such as Delaware) have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. As a result of the foregoing, holders of our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. company.The laws of the British Virgin Islands provide limited protection for minority shareholders, so minority shareholders will have limited or no recourse if they are dissatisfied with the conduct of our affairs.Under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, there is limited statutory law for the protection of minority shareholders other than the provisions of the BVI Act dealing with shareholder remedies (as summarized under Item 10. — “Additional Information — Memorandum and Articles of Association”). The principal protection under statutory law is that shareholders may bring an action to enforce the constituent documents of a British Virgin Islands company and are entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted in accordance with the BVI Act and the memorandum and articles of association of the company. As such, if those who control the company have persistently disregarded the requirements of the BVI Act or the provisions of the company’s memorandum and articles of association, then the courts will likely grant relief. Generally, the areas in which the courts will intervene are the following: (i) an act complained of which is outside the scope of the authorized business or is illegal or not capable of ratification by the majority; (ii) acts that constitute fraud on the minority where the wrongdoers control the company; (iii) acts that infringe on the personal rights of the shareholders, such as the right to vote; and (iv) acts where the company has not complied with provisions requiring approval of a special or extraordinary majority of shareholders, which are more limited than the rights afforded to minority shareholders under the laws of many states in the United States.It may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our executive officers and directors in jurisdictions outside the United States.Under our Memorandum and Articles, we may indemnify and hold our directors harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. Furthermore, to the extent allowed by law, the rights and obligations among or between us, any of our current or former directors, officers and employees and any current or former shareholder will be governed exclusively by the laws of the British Virgin Islands and subject to the jurisdiction of the British Virgin Islands courts, unless those rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities as such. Although there is doubt as to whether United States courts would enforce these provisions in an action brought in the United States under United States securities laws, these provisions could make judgments obtained outside of the British Virgin Islands more difficult to enforce against our assets in the British Virgin Islands or jurisdictions that would apply British Virgin Islands law.British Virgin Islands companies may not be able to initiate shareholder derivative actions, thereby depriving shareholders of one avenue to protect their interests.British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect of any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely to recognize or enforce judgments of courts in the United States based on certain liability provisions of United States securities law or to impose liabilities, in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain liability provisions of the United States securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will generally recognize and enforce the non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. This means that even if shareholders were to sue us successfully, they may not be able to recover anything to make up for the losses suffered.21Table of ContentsItem 1B