ITEM 1A.                    RISK
FACTORS.

 

There are risks and uncertainties that can affect our
business.  The significant risk factors are discussed below.  Please
also see the “Outlook” section in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for
forward-looking statements and factors that could cause us not to realize our
goals or meet our expectations.

 

COMPETITIVE
ENVIRONMENT

 

The operating environment for the food retailing industry
continues to be characterized by intense price competition, aggressive
supercenter expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of
non-traditional competitors and market consolidation.  We have developed a strategic plan that we
believe is a balanced approach that will enable Kroger to meet the wide-ranging
needs and expectations of our customers in this challenging economic
environment.  However, the nature and extent to which our competitors
implement various pricing and promotional activities in response to increasing
competition - including our execution of our strategic plan - and our response
to these competitive actions, can adversely affect our profitability.  Our profitability and growth could also be
adversely affected by changes in the overall economic environment that impact
consumer spending, including discretionary spending.

 

FOOD
SAFETY

 

Customers count on Kroger to provide them with wholesome food
products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food products sold by Kroger
could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek
alternative sources of supply for all of their food needs, even if the basis
for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the
part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As
such, any issue regarding the safety of any food items sold by Kroger,
regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our
operations.

 

LABOR
RELATIONS

 

A
significant majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including any
work stoppages, could have an adverse impact on our financial results.

 

We are a party to approximately 330 collective bargaining
agreements.  We have major contracts
expiring in 2008 covering store employees in Columbus, Indianapolis, Las Vegas,
Louisville, Nashville, Phoenix and Portland. 
In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health
care, pension and employee benefit costs, among other issues, will continue to
be important topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective
bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur
if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions. 
This could significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to
control health care, pension and wage costs, or gain operational flexibility
under our collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased
operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations.

 

STRATEGY
EXECUTION

 

Our strategy focuses on improving our customers’ shopping
experience through enhanced service, product selection and value. 
Successful execution of this strategy requires a balance between sales growth
and earnings growth.  Maintaining this strategy requires the ability to
identify and execute plans to generate cost savings and productivity
improvements that can be invested in the merchandising and pricing initiatives
necessary to support our customer-focused programs, as well as recognizing and
implementing organizational changes as required.  If we are unable to
execute our plans, or if our plans fail to meet our customers’ expectations,
our sales and earnings growth expectations could be adversely affected.

 

DATA AND TECHNOLOGY

 

Our business is increasingly dependent on information
technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing operations.  If we were to experience difficulties
maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur
significant losses due to disruptions in our operations.  Additionally, these systems contain valuable
proprietary data that, if breached, would have an adverse effect on Kroger.

 

3












 

INDEBTEDNESS

 

As of year-end 2007, Kroger’s outstanding indebtedness,
including capital leases and financing obligations, totaled approximately $8.1
billion.  This indebtedness could reduce our ability to obtain additional
financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us
more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures.  If debt
markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing debt, we may be required
to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments
on our indebtedness.  Changes in our
credit ratings, or in the interest rate environment, could have an adverse
effect on our financing costs and structure.

 

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS

 

From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings,
including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury,
antitrust claims and other proceedings.  Some of these proceedings,
including product liability cases, could result in a substantial loss to Kroger
in the event that other potentially responsible parties are unable (for
financial reasons or otherwise) to satisfy a judgment entered against
them.  Others purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of
similarly situated parties.  We estimate our exposure to these legal
proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities. 
Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial
uncertainties.  While we currently do not expect any outstanding legal
proceedings to have a material effect on the financial condition of Kroger,
unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in our evaluations
or predictions about the proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on
our financial results.  Please also refer to the “Legal Proceedings”
section in Item 3 below.

 

MULTI-EMPLOYER
POST-RETIREMENT
OBLIGATIONS

 

As
discussed in more detail below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-Post-Retirement Benefit Plans,” Kroger
contributes to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations
arising under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing
employees covered by those agreements.  In addition to future contribution
obligations that Kroger may have under those plans, there is a risk that the
agencies that rate Kroger’s outstanding debt instruments could view the
underfunded nature of these plans unfavorably when determining their ratings on
the Company’s debt securities.  Any downgrading of Kroger’s debt ratings
likely would increase Kroger’s cost of borrowing.

 

INSURANCE

 

We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide
for potential liability for workers’ compensation, automobile and general
liability, property, director and officers’ liability, and employee health care
benefits.  Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree
of variability.   Changes in legal trends and interpretations,
variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims
settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, and
changes in discount rates could all affect ultimate settlements of claims.

 

ITEM 1B