Item 1A under the heading “Competitive Environment.”
 
3






 
ITEM 1A.                                       RISK FACTORS.
 
There are risks and uncertainties that can affect our business.  The significant risk factors are discussed below.  Please also see the “Outlook” section in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for forward-looking statements and factors that could cause us not to realize our goals or meet our expectations.
 
COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
 
The operating environment for the food retailing industry continues to be characterized by intense price competition, aggressive supercenter expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of non-traditional competitors and market consolidation.  We have developed a strategic plan that we believe provides a balanced approach that will enable Kroger to meet the wide-ranging needs and expectations of our customers in this challenging economic environment.  However, the nature and extent to which our competitors implement various pricing and promotional activities in response to increasing competition, including our execution of our strategic plan, and our response to these competitive actions, can adversely affect our profitability.  Our profitability and growth have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by changes in the overall economic environment that affect consumer spending, including discretionary spending.
 
PRODUCT SAFETY
 
Customers count on Kroger to provide them with safe food and drugs, and other merchandise.  Concerns regarding the safety of the products that Kroger sells could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  Any issue regarding the safety of items sold by Kroger, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
LABOR RELATIONS
 
A majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including a prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial number of locations, could have a material adverse effect on our results.
 
We are a party to approximately 300 collective bargaining agreements.  We have various labor agreements that will be negotiated in 2014, covering store employees in Cincinnati, Atlanta, Southern California, New Mexico, Richmond/Hampton Roads, West Virginia and Arizona, and an agreement with Teamsters covering several distribution and manufacturing facilities.  Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate new contracts with labor unions.  A prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial number of locations could have a material adverse effect on our results.  Further, if we are unable to control health care, pension and wage costs, or if we have insufficient operational flexibility under our collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
STRATEGY EXECUTION
 
Our strategy focuses on improving our customers’ shopping experiences through improved service, product quality and selection and price.  Successful execution of this strategy requires a balance between sales growth and earnings growth.  Maintaining this strategy requires the ability to develop and execute plans to generate cost savings and productivity improvements that can be invested in the merchandising and pricing initiatives necessary to support our customer-focused programs, as well as recognizing and implementing organizational changes as required.  If we are unable to execute our plans, or if our plans fail to meet our customers’ expectations, our sales and earnings growth could be adversely affected.
 
DATA AND TECHNOLOGY
 
Our business is increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing operations.  If we were to experience difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations.
 
4






 
Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store some personal information that our customers provide to us.  We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business.  Under certain circumstances, we may share information with vendors that assist us in conducting our business, as required by law, or with the permission of the individual.  Although we have implemented procedures to protect our information, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack.  Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our or our vendors’ network security and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer or business information.  In addition, a Kroger associate, or a contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain information or inadvertently cause a breach involving information. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations, associates, and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, compliance with tougher privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes.
 
INDEBTEDNESS
 
As of year-end 2013, Kroger’s outstanding indebtedness, including capital leases and financing obligations, totaled approximately $11.3 billion.  This indebtedness could reduce our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us vulnerable to future economic downturns as well as competitive pressures.  If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness.  Changes in our credit ratings, or in the interest rate environment, could have an adverse effect on our financing costs and structure.
 
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, antitrust claims and other proceedings.  Other legal proceedings purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of similarly situated parties.  Some of these proceedings could result in a substantial loss to Kroger.  We estimate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities, where it is reasonably possible to estimate and where an adverse outcome is probable.  Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties.  Adverse outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in our evaluations or predictions about the proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.  Please also refer to the “Legal Proceedings” section in Item 3 and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION OBLIGATIONS
 
As discussed in more detail below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-Multi-Employer Pension Plans,” Kroger contributes to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing employees covered by those agreements.  We believe that the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in most of these multi-employer plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits, and we expect that the Company’s contributions to those funds, excluding all payments to the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union (“UFCW”) consolidated pension plan and the pension plans that were consolidated into the UFCW consolidated pension plan, will increase over the next few years.  A significant increase to those funding requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Despite the fact that the pension obligations of these funds are not the liability or responsibility of the Company, except as noted below, there is a risk that the agencies that rate Kroger’s outstanding debt instruments could view the underfunded nature of these plans unfavorably when determining their ratings on our debt securities.  Any downgrading of Kroger’s debt ratings likely would adversely affect Kroger’s cost of borrowing and access to capital.
 
We also currently bear the investment risk of one of the larger multi-employer pension plans in which we participate.  In addition, we have been designated as the named fiduciary of this fund with sole investment authority of the assets of the fund.  If investment results fail to meet our expectations, we could be responsible for the shortfall, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
5






 
INTEGRATION OF NEW BUSINESS
 
We enter into mergers and acquisitions with expected benefits including, among other things, operating efficiencies, procurement savings, innovation, sharing of best practices and increased market share that may allow for future growth.  Achieving the anticipated benefits may be subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including, without limitation, whether unique corporate cultures will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, the coordination of geographically separate organizations, the possibility of imprecise assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses and delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace.  We could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues.  Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention.  If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
INSURANCE
 
We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property, director and officers’ liability, and employee health care benefits.  Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability.  Changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
FUEL
 
We sell a significant amount of gasoline, which could face increased regulation and demand could be affected by concerns about the effect of emissions on the environment as well as retail price increases.  The effect on the environment could be manifested by extreme weather conditions, such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels.  We are unable to predict future regulations, environmental effects, political unrest, acts of terrorism and other matters that may affect the cost and availability of fuel, and how our customers will react, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
 
The economic recovery remains fragile and uneven.  Our operating results could be materially impacted by changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending.  Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending.  Increased fuel prices could also have an effect on consumer spending and on our costs of producing and procuring products that we sell.  Our ability to pass higher prices along to consumers due to inflation or other reasons could have an effect on consumer spending.  We are unable to predict how the global economy and financial markets will perform.  If the global economy and financial markets do not perform as we expect, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows
 
WEATHER AND NATURAL DISASTERS
 
A large number of our stores and distribution facilities are geographically located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts and earthquakes.  Weather conditions and natural disasters could disrupt our operations at one or more of our facilities, interrupt the delivery of products to our stores, substantially increase the cost of products, including supplies and materials and substantially increase the cost of energy needed to operate our facilities or deliver products to our facilities.  Adverse weather and natural disasters could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
6






 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
Our stores are subject to various laws, regulations, and administrative practices that affect our business. We must comply with numerous provisions regulating, among other things, health and sanitation standards, food labeling and safety, equal employment opportunity, minimum wages, and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic beverages. We cannot predict future laws, regulations, interpretations, administrative orders, or applications, or the effect they will have on our operations. They could, however, significantly increase the cost of doing business.  They also could require the reformulation of some of the products that we sell (or manufacture for sale to third parties) to meet new standards.  We also could be required to recall or discontinue the sale of products that cannot be reformulated.  These changes could result in additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling, or scientific substantiation.  Any or all of these requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
ITEM 1B