ITEM 1A.                    RISK FACTORS.

 

There are risks and uncertainties that can
affect our business.  The significant risk factors are discussed below. 
Please also see the “Outlook” section in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for
forward-looking statements and factors that could cause us not to realize our
goals or meet our expectations.

 

COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

 

The operating environment for the food retailing
industry continues to be characterized by intense price competition, aggressive
supercenter expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of
non-traditional competitors and market consolidation.  We have developed a strategic plan that we
believe is a balanced approach that will enable Kroger to meet the wide-ranging
needs and expectations of our customers in this challenging economic
environment.  However, the nature and extent to which our competitors
implement various pricing and promotional activities in response to increasing
competition - including our execution of our strategic plan - and our response
to these competitive actions, can adversely affect our profitability.  Our profitability and growth could also be
adversely affected by changes in the overall economic environment that impact
consumer spending, including discretionary spending.

 

FOOD SAFETY

 

Customers count on Kroger to provide them with
wholesome food products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food products
could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek
alternative sources of supply for all of their food needs, even if the basis
for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the
part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  Any
issue regarding the safety of any food items sold by Kroger, regardless of the
cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our operations.

 

LABOR RELATIONS

 

A majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including any
work stoppages, could have an adverse impact on our financial results.

 

We are a party to approximately 309 collective
bargaining agreements.  We have major
contracts to be negotiated in 2009 covering store employees in Albuquerque,
Arizona, Atlanta, Dallas, Dayton, Denver and Portland.  In negotiations, we expect that rising health
care and pension costs, among other issues, will continue to be important
topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining
agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are
unable to negotiate new contracts with labor unions.  A strike could
significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control
health care, pension and wage costs, or gain operational flexibility under our
collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs
and an adverse impact on future results of operations.

 

STRATEGY EXECUTION

 

Our strategy focuses on improving our
customers’ shopping experience through improved service, product selection and
price.  Successful execution of this
strategy requires a balance between sales growth and earnings growth. 
Maintaining this strategy requires the ability to identify and execute plans to
generate cost savings and productivity improvements that can be invested in the
merchandising and pricing initiatives necessary to support our customer-focused
programs, as well as recognizing and implementing organizational changes as
required.  If we are unable to execute our plans, or if our plans
fail to meet our customers’ expectations, our sales and earnings growth
expectations could be adversely affected.

 

DATA AND TECHNOLOGY

 

Our business is increasingly dependent on
information technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing
operations.  If we were to experience
difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, we could
incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations.  Additionally, these systems contain valuable
proprietary data that, if breached, would have an adverse effect on Kroger.

 

4












 

INDEBTEDNESS

 

As of year-end 2008, Kroger’s outstanding
indebtedness, including capital leases and financing obligations, totaled
approximately $8.1 billion.  This indebtedness could reduce our ability to
obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes
and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive
pressures.  If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing
debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
from operations to payments on our indebtedness.  Changes in our credit ratings, or in the
interest rate environment, could have an adverse effect on our financing costs
and structure.

 

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

 

From time to time, we are a party to legal
proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues,
personal injury, antitrust claims and other proceedings.  Some of these
proceedings, including product liability cases, could result in a substantial
loss to Kroger in the event that other potentially responsible parties are
unable (for financial reasons or otherwise) to satisfy a judgment entered
against them.  Others purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of
similarly situated parties.  We estimate our exposure to these legal
proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities. 
Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial
uncertainties.  While we currently do not expect any outstanding legal
proceedings to have a material effect on the financial condition of Kroger,
unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in our evaluations
or predictions about the proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on
our financial results.  Please also refer to the “Legal Proceedings”
section in Item 3 below.

 

MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION OBLIGATIONS

 

As discussed in more detail below in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting
Policies-Post-Retirement Benefit Plans,”
Kroger contributes to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations
arising under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing
employees covered by those agreements.  The funding status of most of
those pension funds has deteriorated, and it is probable that the Company’s
contributions to those funds will increase significantly over the next several
years.  Despite the fact that the pension
obligations of these funds are not the liability or responsibility of the
Company, there is a risk that the agencies that rate Kroger’s outstanding debt
instruments could view the underfunded nature of these plans unfavorably when
determining their ratings on our debt securities.  Any downgrading of
Kroger’s debt ratings likely would increase Kroger’s cost of borrowing.

 

INSURANCE

 

We use a combination of insurance and
self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation,
automobile and general liability, property, director and officers’ liability,
and employee health care benefits.  Any actuarial projection of losses is
subject to a high degree of variability.  Changes in legal trends and
interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and
method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable
laws, insolvency or insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all
affect ultimate settlements of claims.

 

CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

 

The global economy and financial markets have
declined and experienced volatility due to uncertainties related to energy
prices, availability of credit, difficulties in the banking and financial
services sectors, the decline in the housing market, diminished market
liquidity, falling consumer confidence and rising unemployment rates.  As a result, consumers are more cautious.  This could lead to reduced consumer spending,
to consumers switching to a less expensive mix of products, or to consumers
trading down to discounters for grocery items, all of which could affect our
sales growth.  We are unable to predict
when the global economy and financial markets will improve.  If the global economy and financial markets
do not improve, our results of operations and financial condition could be
adversely affected.

 

ITEM 1B