Item 1A under
the heading “Competitive Environment”. 

 

3












 

ITEM 1A.                   RISK
FACTORS.

 

There are
risks and uncertainties that can affect our business.  The significant
risk factors are discussed below.  Please also see the “Outlook” section
in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for forward-looking statements and factors
that could cause us not to realize our goals or meet our expectations.

 

COMPETITIVE
ENVIRONMENT

 

The
operating environment for the food retailing industry continues to be
characterized by intense price competition, aggressive supercenter expansion,
increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of non-traditional
competitors and market consolidation.  We
have developed a strategic plan that we believe is a balanced approach that
will enable Kroger to meet the wide-ranging needs and expectations of our
customers in this challenging economic environment.  However, the nature
and extent to which our competitors implement various pricing and promotional
activities in response to increasing competition, including our execution of
our strategic plan, and our response to these competitive actions, can
adversely affect our profitability.  Our
profitability and growth has been and could continue to be adversely affected
by changes in the overall economic environment that affect consumer spending,
including discretionary spending.

 

FOOD
SAFETY

 

Customers
count on Kroger to provide them with wholesome food products.  Concerns
regarding the safety of food products could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing
certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of
their food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside our
control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be
difficult and costly to reestablish.  Any issue regarding the safety of
food items sold by Kroger, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial
and adverse effect on our operations.

 

LABOR
RELATIONS

 

A majority of our employees
are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions, and our
relationship with those unions, including a prolonged work stoppage affecting
a substantial number of locations, could have a material adverse effect on our
results.

 

We are a
party to approximately 305 collective bargaining agreements.  We have various labor agreements that will be
negotiated in 2010, covering store employees in Albuquerque, Cincinnati,
Dallas, Detroit, Ft. Wayne, Houston, Little Rock, Portland, Seattle and Toledo.  We will also negotiate agreements with the Teamsters
for employees in California and Portland. 
Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by
the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate new contracts
with labor unions.  A prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial
number of locations could have a material adverse effect on our results.  Further, if we are unable to control health
care, pension and wage costs, or gain operational flexibility under our collective
bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an
adverse effect on future results of operations.

 

STRATEGY
EXECUTION

 

Our strategy
focuses on improving our customers’ shopping experiences through improved
service, product selection and price. 
Successful execution of this strategy requires a balance between sales
growth and earnings growth.  Maintaining this strategy requires the
ability to develop and execute plans to generate cost savings and productivity
improvements that can be invested in the merchandising and pricing initiatives
necessary to support our customer-focused programs, as well as recognizing and
implementing organizational changes as required.  If we are unable to
execute our plans, or if our plans fail to meet our customers’ expectations,
our sales and earnings growth could be adversely affected.

 

DATA AND
TECHNOLOGY

 

Our business
is increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex
and vital to continuing operations.  If
we were to experience difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing
new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our
operations.  Additionally, these systems
contain valuable proprietary and financial data and a breach could have an adverse
effect on Kroger.

 

4












 

INDEBTEDNESS

 

As of
year-end 2009, Kroger’s outstanding indebtedness, including capital leases and
financing obligations, totaled approximately $8.1 billion.  This indebtedness could reduce our ability to
obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes
and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive
pressures.  If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing
debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
from operations to payments on our indebtedness.  Changes in our credit ratings, or in the
interest rate environment, could have an adverse effect on our financing costs
and structure.

 

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS

 

From time to
time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving
personnel and employment issues, personal injury, antitrust claims and other
proceedings.  Some of these proceedings could result in a substantial loss
to Kroger in the event that other potentially responsible parties are unable
(for financial reasons or otherwise) to satisfy a judgment entered against
them.  Others purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of
similarly situated parties.  We estimate our exposure to these legal
proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities, where it is
reasonably possible to estimate and where an adverse outcome is probable. 
Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial
uncertainties.  Adverse outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in
our evaluations or predictions about the proceedings, could have a material
adverse effect on our financial results.  Please also refer to the “Legal
Proceedings” section in Item 3 below.

 

MULTI-EMPLOYER
PENSION OBLIGATIONS

 

As discussed in more detail
below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-Post-Retirement Benefit Plans,” Kroger contributes to
several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under
collective bargaining agreements with unions representing employees covered by
those agreements.  The funding status of most of those pension funds has
deteriorated, since
year-end 2007, and it is probable that the Company’s contributions
to those funds will increase significantly over the next several years.  A significant increase to those funding
requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations, or cash flows.  Despite the
fact that the pension obligations of these funds are not the liability or
responsibility of the Company, there is a risk that the agencies that rate
Kroger’s outstanding debt instruments could view the underfunded nature of
these plans unfavorably when determining their ratings on our debt
securities.  Any downgrading of Kroger’s debt ratings likely would
affect  Kroger’s cost of borrowing and
access to capital.

 

INSURANCE

 

We use a
combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability
for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property, director
and officers’ liability, and employee health care benefits.  Any actuarial
projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability.  
Changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation
rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level
changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers,
and changes in discount rates could all affect our financial condition, results
of operations, or cash flows.

 

CURRENT
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

 

The global
economy and financial markets have declined and experienced volatility due to
uncertainties related to energy prices, availability of credit, difficulties in
the banking and financial services sectors, the decline in the housing market,
diminished market liquidity, falling consumer confidence and rising
unemployment rates.  As a result,
consumers are more cautious.  This led to
reduced consumer spending, to consumers switching to a less expensive mix of
products, and to consumers trading down to discounters for grocery items, all
of which has affected and could continue to affect our sales growth and
earnings.  In 2009, we experienced overall
deflation, excluding fuel.  In this uncertain
economy, it is difficult to forecast whether 2010 will be a period of inflation
or deflation.  Food deflation could
reduce sales growth and earnings, while food inflation, combined with reduced
consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins and earnings.  We are unable to predict when the global
economy and financial markets will improve. 
If the global economy and financial markets do not improve, or if they
worsen, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely
affected.

 

5












 

WEATHER AND NATURAL DISASTERS

 

A large
number of our stores and distribution facilities are geographically located in
areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and
earthquakes.  Weather conditions and
natural disasters could disrupt our operations at one or more of our
facilities; could interrupt the delivery of products to our stores; could
substantially increase the cost of products, including supplies and materials;
and could substantially increase the cost of energy needed to operate our
facilities or deliver products to our facilities.  Although our geographic diversity minimizes
the risk that a natural disaster will impair the operation of the Company as a
whole, adverse weather and natural disasters could materially affect our
financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

 

Our stores are subject to various
laws, regulations, and administrative practices that affect our business. We
must comply with numerous provisions regulating, among other things, health and
sanitation standards, food labeling and safety, equal employment opportunity,
minimum wages, and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic
beverages. We cannot predict future laws, regulations, interpretations,
administrative orders, or applications, or the effect they will have on our
operations. They could, however, significantly increase the cost of doing
business.  They also could require the reformulation of some of the products
that we sell (or manufacture for sale to third parties) to meet new
standards.  We also could be required to recall or discontinue the sale of
products that cannot be reformulated.  These changes could result in
additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain
products, expanded or different labeling, or scientific substantiation. 
Any or all of these requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

 

ITEM 1B