Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Risks
    Related to an Investment in KCS’ Common Stock


 



    The
    price of KCS’ common stock may fluctuate significantly,
    which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock
    when they want to or at prices they find
    attractive.


 


    The price of KCS’ common stock on the New York Stock
    Exchange (“NYSE”), listed under the ticker symbol
    “KSU”, constantly changes. The Company expects that
    the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate.


 


    The Company’s stock price can fluctuate as a result of a
    variety of factors, many of which are beyond KCS’ control.
    These factors include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    quarterly variations in operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating results that vary from the expectations of management,
    securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in expectations as to future financial performance,
    including financial estimates by securities analysts, ratings
    agencies and investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments generally affecting the railroad industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements by KCS or its competitors of significant
    contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint
    ventures or capital commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings
    against KCS;




 



     
        • 

    
    KCS’ dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of
    dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    future sales of KCS’ equity or equity-linked securities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on
    preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock or
    convertible debt; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general domestic and international economic conditions including
    the availability of short- and long-term financing.





 


    In addition, from time to time the stock market in general has
    experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to
    the operating performance of a particular company. These broad
    market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of
    KCS’ common stock.


 



    KCS’
    ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock is currently
    prohibited and KCS does not anticipate paying cash dividends on
    its common stock in the foreseeable future.


 


    KCS has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on
    its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. In
    addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the Company may be
    limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock
    so that it can maintain an appropriate level of debt. During the
    first quarter of 2000, the Board of Directors suspended common
    stock dividends. KCS does not anticipate making any cash
    dividend payments to its common stockholders in the foreseeable
    future.


 



    Holders
    of the Series D Preferred Stock may have special voting
    rights if KCS fails to pay dividends on that preferred stock
    over a stated number of quarters.


 


    If dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock are in arrears
    for six consecutive quarters (or an equivalent number of days in
    the aggregate, whether or not consecutive), holders of the
    Series D Preferred Stock will be entitled to elect two of
    the authorized number of directors at the next annual
    stockholders’ meeting at which directors are elected and at
    each subsequent stockholders’ meeting until such time as
    all accumulated dividends are paid on the Series D
    Preferred Stock or set aside for payment. In addition, so long
    as dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock remain unpaid
    and for a period thereafter, KCS will not be eligible to
    register future





    
    9



Table of Contents





    offerings of securities on
    Form S-3
    or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies
    that qualify as “well-known seasoned issuers” under
    SEC rules, which could adversely affect KCS’ ability to
    access capital markets and increase the cost of accessing
    capital markets.


 



    Sales
    of substantial amounts of KCS’ common stock in the public
    market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the
    common stock.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, there were 8,763,107 shares
    of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991
    Amended and Restated Stock Option and Performance Award Plan,
    the 2008 Stock Option and Performance Award Plan and the
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2,117,095 shares of common
    stock held by executive officers and directors outside those
    plans, and 6,999,826 shares of common stock reserved for
    issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of
    convertible preferred stock. Sales of common stock by employees
    upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and
    directors subject to compliance with Rule 144 under the
    Securities Act, and sales of common stock that may be issued
    upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the
    perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the
    market price of KCS’ common stock.


 



    KCS
    has provisions in its charter, bylaws and Rights Agreement that
    could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a
    controlling interest in KCS and that could deprive an investor
    of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of
    KCS’ common stock.


 


    KCS has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or
    prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties, including
    provisions providing for a classified board and supermajority
    stockholder approval requirements in order to increase the size
    of the board of directors, abolish cumulative voting, abolish
    the classification of the Board, or effect certain merger,
    consolidation or sale transactions. The bylaws provide that a
    stockholder must give the Company advance written notice of its
    intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual
    meeting. In addition, the Company has adopted a Rights Agreement
    which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the
    ability of third parties to acquire control of KCS without prior
    approval of the Board of Directors. These provisions may deprive
    KCS’ stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at
    a premium over prevailing market prices.


 



    The
    failure of a bank to fund a request (or any portion of such
    request) by KCS to borrow money under its existing revolving
    credit facility could reduce KCS’ ability to fund capital
    expenditures or otherwise properly fund its
    operations.


 


    The Company and its subsidiaries are in an industry that
    requires continuing infrastructure improvements and acquisitions
    of capital assets, necessitating substantial expenditure of
    cash. KCSR has an existing revolving credit facility with
    multiple banking institutions to provide additional liquidity.
    If any of the banking institutions that are a party to such
    credit facility fails to fund a request (or any portion of such
    request) by KCSR to borrow money under its credit facility,
    KCS’ ability to fund capital expenditures, fund its
    operations and pay debt service could be reduced, each of which
    could result in a decline in the value of a stockholder’s
    investment in the Company.


 



    The
    failure of any bank in which the Company deposits funds could
    reduce the amount of cash the Company has available to pay
    distributions and make additional investments.


 


    Given the developments in the subprime mortgage and other
    financial markets, financial institutions have additional
    capital risks. The Company has diversified cash and cash
    equivalents among several banking institutions in an attempt to
    minimize exposure to any one of these entities. However, the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or “FDIC,” only
    insures amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank.
    KCS currently has cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash
    deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of
    federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in
    which KCS has deposited funds ultimately fails, the Company may
    lose its deposits to the extent they are in excess of $250,000.
    The loss of the Company’s deposits could reduce the amount
    of cash the Company has available to distribute or invest and
    could result in a decline in the value of each
    stockholder’s investment in the Company.




    
    10



Table of Contents




 



    Risks
    Related to KCS’ Business


 



    KCS
    competes against other railroads and other transportation
    providers.


 


    The Company’s domestic and international operations are
    subject to competition from other railroads, particularly the
    Union Pacific Railroad Company (“UP”) and BNSF Railway
    Company (“BNSF”) in the United States and Ferromex in
    Mexico, as well as from truck carriers, barge lines, and other
    maritime shippers. Many of KCS’ rail competitors are much
    larger and have significantly greater financial and other
    resources than KCS, which may enable rail competitors to reduce
    rates and make KCS’ freight services less competitive.
    KCS’ ability to respond to competitive pressures by
    matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely
    affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on,
    among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs.
    KCS’ failure to respond to competitive pressures, and
    particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operation and financial condition.


 


    The railroad industry is dominated by a few large carriers.
    These larger railroads could attempt to use their size and
    pricing power to block other railroads’ access to efficient
    gateways and routing options that are currently and have
    historically been available. In addition, if there is future
    consolidation in the railroad industry in the United States or
    Mexico, there can be no assurance that it will not have an
    adverse effect on operations.


 


    Trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide
    rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able
    to use public
    rights-of-way,
    require substantially smaller capital investment and maintenance
    expenditures than railroads and allow for more frequent and
    flexible scheduling. Continuing competitive pressures, any
    reduction in margins due to competitive pressures, future
    improvements that increase the quality of alternative modes of
    transportation in the locations in which the Company operates,
    or legislation or regulations that provide motor carriers with
    additional advantages, such as increased size of vehicles and
    reduced weight restrictions, could result in downward pressure
    on freight rates, which in turn could have a material adverse
    effect on results of operations, financial condition and
    liquidity.


 


    A central part of KCS’ growth strategy is based upon the
    conversion of truck traffic to rail. There can be no assurance
    the Company will succeed in its efforts to convert traffic from
    truck to rail transport or that the customers already converted
    will be retained. If the railroad industry in general is unable
    to preserve its competitive advantages vis-à-vis the
    trucking industry, projected revenue growth could be adversely
    affected. Additionally, revenue growth could be affected by,
    among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an
    improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by
    carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative
    interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the
    North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), and
    KCS’ inability to grow its existing customer base and
    capture additional cargo transport market share because of
    competition from the shipping industry and other railroads.


 



    KCS’
    business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on
    agreements with other railroads and third parties.


 


    Operation of KCS’ rail network and its plans for growth and
    expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads
    and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic
    alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage
    rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third
    parties that enable KCS to exchange traffic and utilize trackage
    the Company does not own. KCS’ ability to provide
    comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large
    part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other
    railroads and third parties. The termination of, or the failure
    to renew, these agreements could adversely affect KCS’
    business, financial condition and results of operations. KCS is
    also dependent in part upon the financial health and efficient
    performance of other railroads. For example, some of KCSR’s
    traffic moves over the UP’s lines via trackage rights, a
    significant portion of KCSR’s grain shipments originate
    with another rail carrier pursuant to marketing agreements with
    that carrier, and the UP is KCS’ largest partner in the
    interchange of total rail traffic. There can be no assurance
    that KCS will not be materially adversely affected by
    operational or financial difficulties of other railroads.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    KCSM’s
    operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage
    rights and interline service agreements with another Mexican
    rail carrier, some of which are in dispute.


 


    Through KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican government, KCSM
    is required to grant short and long distance trackage rights to
    Ferromex. Applicable law stipulates that Ferromex similarly is
    required to grant to KCSM rights to use portions of their
    tracks. Although all of these trackage rights have been granted
    under the Concession, KCSM and Ferromex have not actually
    operated under the long distance trackage rights because, other
    than the rates to be charged pursuant to the Trackage Rights
    Agreement, dated February 9, 2010, between KCSM and
    Ferromex, the rates that may be charged for the right to use the
    tracks have not been agreed upon between KCSM and Ferromex for
    the periods beginning in 1998 through December 31, 2008.


 


    If KCSM cannot reach an agreement with Ferromex for rates
    applicable for services prior to January 1, 2009 which are
    not subject to the Trackage Rights Agreement, the SCT is
    entitled to set the rates in accordance with Mexican law and
    regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate KCSM.
    KCSM is currently involved in judicial, civil and administrative
    proceedings and negotiations with Ferromex regarding the rates
    payable to each other for trackage rights, interline services
    and haulage rights for periods prior to January 1, 2009.
    Certain of these disputes continue under litigation. Any
    resolution of such procedures adverse to KCSM could have a
    negative impact on its results of operations in a particular
    quarter or fiscal year.


 



    KCS’
    debt capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total
    debt plus equity) is 45.8%. KCS’ leverage could adversely
    affect its ability to fulfill obligations under various debt
    instruments and operate its business.


 


    KCS’ level of debt could make it more difficult for it to
    borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money
    available to finance operations and other business activities,
    exposes the Company to the risk of increased interest rates,
    makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and
    adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in
    planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic
    conditions. KCS’ failure to comply with the financial and
    other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which,
    among other things, require KCS to maintain specified financial
    ratios and limit its ability to incur debt and sell assets,
    could result in an event of default that, if not cured or
    waived, could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business or prospects. If the Company does not
    have enough cash to service its debt, meet other obligations and
    fund other liquidity needs, KCS may be required to take actions
    such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying
    capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or
    refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking
    additional equity capital. KCS cannot assure that any of these
    remedies can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at
    all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt
    agreements may restrict the Company from adopting some of these
    alternatives.


 


    The indebtedness of KCSM exposes it to risks of exchange rate
    fluctuations because any devaluation of the peso would cause the
    cost of KCSM’s dollar-denominated debt to increase and
    could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage in Mexico,
    compared to Mexican competitors that have less
    dollar-denominated
    debt and greater operating and financial flexibility than KCSM.


 



    A
    downturn in the debt capital markets may increase the cost of
    borrowing and make financing difficult to obtain, each of which
    may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results
    of operations and business.


 


    Events in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on
    the debt capital markets and, as a result, credit may become
    more expensive and difficult to obtain. Lenders may impose more
    stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and there may be a
    general reduction in the amount of credit available in the
    markets in which KCS conducts business. The negative impact of
    tightening credit markets and adverse changes in the debt
    capital markets generally may have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ business and results of operations resulting from, but
    not limited to, an inability to finance capital expansion on
    favorable terms, if at all, increased financing costs or
    financial terms with increasingly restrictive covenants.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    KCS’
    business is capital intensive.


 


    The Company’s business is capital intensive and requires
    substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things,
    additions and improvements to roadway, structures and
    technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of
    equipment and the rail system. KCS’ failure to make
    necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could
    impair its ability to serve existing customers or accommodate
    increases in traffic volumes.


 


    KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican government requires KCSM
    to make investments and undertake capital projects. If KCSM
    fails to make such capital investments, KCSM’s business
    plan commitments with the Mexican government may be at risk,
    requiring KCSM to seek waivers of its business plan. There is no
    assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by
    the SCT. KCSM may defer capital expenditures under its business
    plan with the permission of the SCT. However, the SCT might not
    grant this permission, and any failure by KCSM to comply with
    the capital investment commitments in its business plan could
    result in sanctions imposed by the SCT, and could result in
    revocation of the Concession if sanctions are imposed on five
    distinct occasions. The Company cannot assure that the Mexican
    government would grant any such permission or waiver. If such
    permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and KCSM is
    sanctioned, its Concession might be at risk of revocation, which
    would materially adversely affect KCS’ financial condition
    and results of operations. See “KCSM’s Mexican
    Concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain
    circumstances” below.


 


    KCS has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital
    expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, equipment
    leases, and debt financing. KCS may not be able to generate
    sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient
    funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure
    requirements. Even if financing is available, it may not be
    obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations
    contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to
    KCS’ existing debt.


 



    KCS
    depends on the stability and availability of its information
    technology systems to operate its business.


 


    KCS relies on information technology in all aspects of its
    business. A significant disruption or failure of its information
    technology systems, including its computer hardware, software
    and communications equipment, could result in service
    interruptions, safety failures, security violations, regulatory
    compliance failures and the inability to protect corporate
    information assets against intruders or other operational
    difficulties. Although KCS has taken steps to mitigate these
    risks, a significant disruption could adversely affect KCS’
    results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and
    ability to compete effectively. Additionally, if KCS is unable
    to acquire or implement new technology, it may suffer a
    competitive disadvantage, which could also have an adverse
    effect on KCS’ results of operations, financial condition
    or liquidity.


 



    KCS’
    business may be adversely affected by changes in general
    economic, weather or other conditions.


 


    KCS’ operations may be adversely affected by changes in the
    economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that
    produce and consume the freight that KCS transports. The
    relative strength or weakness of the United States and Mexican
    economies affect the businesses served by KCS. Prolonged
    negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or
    disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit
    markets, including the availability of short and long-term debt
    financing, may affect KCS, as well as the producers and
    consumers of the commodities that KCS transports and may have a
    material adverse effect on KCS’ results of operations,
    financial condition, and liquidity.


 


    PCRC is directly affected by the world economy and trans-Pacific
    trade flows. In addition, KCS’ investments in Mexico and
    Panama expose the Company to risks associated with operating in
    Mexico and Panama, including, among others, cultural
    differences, varying labor, regulatory and operating practices,
    political risk and differences between the United States,
    Mexican and Panamanian economies. Historically, a stronger
    economy has resulted in improved results for KCS’ rail
    transportation operations. Conversely, when the economy has
    slowed, results have been less favorable. If an economic
    slowdown or recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail
    shipments is likely to be reduced, which could have a material
    adverse effect on KCS’ business and financial condition.




    
    13



Table of Contents





    The transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally
    tracking the cycles of the world economy. Although
    transportation markets are affected by general economic
    conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each
    particular market that may influence operating results. Some of
    KCS’ customers do business in industries that are highly
    cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing and
    agriculture industries. Any downturn in these industries could
    have a material adverse effect on operating results. Also, some
    of the products transported have had a historical pattern of
    price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the
    general economic environment and by industry capacity and
    demand. For example, global steel and petrochemical prices have
    decreased in the past, and reduced demand for automotive
    vehicles and related shipments may result in decreased prices.
    KCS cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will
    not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries
    and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition or results.


 


    The Company’s operations may also be affected by natural
    disasters or adverse weather conditions. The Company operates in
    and along the Gulf Coast of the United States, and its
    facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and
    other extreme weather conditions that adversely affect KCS’
    shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. Many of
    the goods and commodities transported by KCS experience cyclical
    demand. KCS’ results of operations can be expected to
    reflect this cyclical demand because of the significant fixed
    costs inherent in railroad operations. Significant reductions in
    the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other
    conditions could have a material adverse effect on KCS’
    business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash
    flows.


 



    KCS’
    business may be affected by market and regulatory responses to
    climate change.


 


    KCS’ operations may be adversely affected by restrictions,
    caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gases,
    including diesel exhaust. Restrictions on emissions could also
    affect KCS’ customers that use commodities that KCS
    transports to produce energy, use significant amounts of energy
    in producing or delivering the commodities KCS transports, or
    manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of
    energy or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants,
    chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers
    and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government
    regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or
    services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions
    reductions could materially affect the markets for the
    commodities KCS transports, which in turn could have a material
    adverse effect on KCS’ results of operations, financial
    condition and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the
    use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain
    customers and their respective markets for certain commodities
    KCS transports in an unpredictable manner that could alter
    traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol
    incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Any of these
    factors, individually or in conjunction with one or more of the
    other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change
    could have a material adverse effect on KCS’ business,
    results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 



    KCS is
    exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties
    and their failure to meet their financial obligations could
    adversely affect KCS’ business.


 


    KCS’ business is subject to credit risk including the risk
    that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its
    obligations when due. Customers and counterparties that owe the
    Company money may default on their obligations to the Company
    due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or
    other reasons. Although the Company has procedures for reviewing
    its receivables and credit exposures to specific customers and
    counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk
    may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to
    detect or foresee. Some of the Company’s risk management
    methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding
    markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or
    otherwise accessible by the Company. That information may not,
    in all cases, be accurate, complete,
    up-to-date
    or properly evaluated. In addition, concerns about, or a default
    by, one customer or counterparty could lead to significant
    liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other customers or
    counterparties, which in turn could adversely affect the
    Company. The Company may be materially and adversely affected in
    the event of a significant default by its customers and
    counterparties.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    KCS’
    business is subject to regulation by international, federal,
    state and local regulatory agencies, including tax,
    environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations that
    could require KCS to incur material costs or liabilities
    relating to tax, environmental, health, or safety compliance or
    remediation. KCS’ failure to comply with these regulations
    could have a material adverse effect on its
    operations.


 


    KCS is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based
    taxes, in both the United States and Mexico. Significant
    judgment is required in determining the provision for income
    taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax rates, enactment
    of new tax laws, and revisions of tax regulations could have a
    material adverse affect on the Company’s financial
    condition and operating results. Although KCS believes the tax
    estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits,
    claims, or litigation could differ from what is reflected in
    KCS’ income tax provisions and accruals.


 


    KCS is subject to governmental regulation by international,
    federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its
    railroad operations, including the Department of Transportation
    and the Department of Homeland Security in the United States and
    the Secretary of Communications and Transportation in Mexico, as
    well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and
    other matters. Government regulation of the railroad industry is
    a significant determinant of the competitiveness and
    profitability of railroads. As part of the Rail Safety
    Improvement Act of 2008 in the United States, Class I railroad
    carriers and passenger and commuter rail operators must
    implement positive train control (a technology designed to help
    prevent
    train-to-train
    collisions, overspeed derailments, incursions into rail work
    zones, and entry into main line track if a switch is misaligned)
    at certain locations (including main line track where toxic
    inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard movements occur or
    where passenger operations occur) by the end of 2015, which will
    add to operating costs, increase the number of employees the
    Company employs and require KCS to invest significant amounts of
    money into new safety technology. KCS’ inadvertent failure
    or inability to comply with applicable laws and regulations
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    liquidity and operations, including limitations on operating
    activities until compliance with applicable requirements is
    achieved. These government agencies may change the legislative
    or regulatory framework within which the Company operates
    without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on its
    business that occur as a result of such change. Additionally,
    some of the regulations require KCS to obtain and maintain
    various licenses, permits and other authorizations. Any failure
    to maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations
    could adversely affect KCS’ business.


 


    From time to time, certain KCS facilities have not been in
    compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and
    regulations and there can be no assurance that KCS will always
    be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future.
    Environmental liability under federal and state law in the
    United States can also extend to previously owned or operated
    properties, leased properties and properties owned by third
    parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by
    the Company. Environmental liabilities may also arise from
    claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties.
    Given the nature of its business, the Company incurs, and
    expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs,
    including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance
    with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material
    shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities.
    KCS presently has environmental investigation and remediation
    obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such
    obligations at additional sites in the future. Liabilities
    accrued for environmental costs represent the Company’s
    best estimate of the probable future obligation for the
    remediation and settlement of these sites. Although the recorded
    liability is the best estimate of all probable costs,
    clean-up
    costs cannot be predicted with absolute certainty, and may
    exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving
    environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the
    extent of other parties’ participation, developments in
    environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective
    action that may ultimately be required. New laws and
    regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements,
    accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of
    previously unknown contamination could require KCS to incur
    costs or subject KCS to liabilities that could have a material
    adverse effect on KCS’ business, results of operations,
    financial condition, and cash flows.


 


    The Company’s Mexican operations are subject to Mexican
    federal and state laws and regulations relating to the
    protection of the environment, including standards for, among
    other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise
    pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling
    of hazardous and





    
    15



Table of Contents





    solid waste. Under applicable Mexican law and regulations,
    administrative and criminal proceedings may be brought and
    economic sanctions imposed against companies that violate
    environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be
    temporarily or permanently closed. KCSM is also subject to the
    laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with
    respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and
    to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments
    of each of the Mexican states in which KCSM’s facilities
    are located. The terms of KCSM’s Concession from the
    Mexican government also impose environmental compliance
    obligations on KCSM. The Company cannot predict the effect, if
    any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of
    additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations
    would have on KCSM’s results of operations, cash flows or
    financial condition. Failure to comply with any environmental
    laws or regulations may result in the termination of KCSM’s
    Concession or in fines or penalties that may affect
    profitability.


 



    KCS,
    as a common carrier by rail, is required by United States and
    Mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could
    expose KCS to significant costs and claims.


 


    Under United States federal statutes and Mexican applicable
    laws, KCS’s common carrier responsibility requires it to
    transport hazardous materials. Any rail accident or other
    incident or accident on KCS’s network, facilities, or at
    the facilities of KCS’s customers involving the release of
    hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or TIH)
    materials, could involve significant costs and claims for
    personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties
    and remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’s results of operations, financial condition, and
    liquidity.


 



    KCS’
    business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in
    fuel supplies. Any significant increase in the cost of fuel that
    is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe
    disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse
    effect on KCS’ business, results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    KCS incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and
    these costs represent a significant portion of its
    transportation expenses. Significant price increases for fuel
    may have a material adverse effect on operating results. During
    periods of rising fuel prices, KCS has been able to pass the
    majority of these fuel cost increases on to customers in the
    form of fuel surcharges applied either in the form of an
    increase in the freight rate or direct customer billings. If KCS
    is unable to recapture its costs of fuel from its customers,
    operating results could be materially adversely affected. In
    addition, a severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from
    supply shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports,
    weather events, war, or otherwise, and the resulting impact on
    fuel prices could materially adversely affect KCS’
    operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.


 


    KCS currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel
    requirements for its Mexican operations almost exclusively
    through purchases at market prices from PEMEX Refinanción
    (“PEMEX”), the national oil company of Mexico, a
    government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the
    distribution and sale of diesel fuel in Mexico. KCSM is party to
    a fuel supply contract with PEMEX of indefinite duration. Either
    party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written
    notice to the other at any time. If the fuel contract is
    terminated and KCSM is unable to acquire diesel fuel from
    alternate sources on acceptable terms, the Mexican operations
    could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Market
    fluctuations could adversely impact KCS’s operating results
    as it hedges certain transactions.


 


    From time to time, KCS may use various financial instruments to
    reduce its exposure to various market risks, including interest
    rates and fuel prices. While these financial instruments reduce
    the Company’s exposure to changes in market risks, the use
    of such instruments may ultimately limit the Company’s
    ability to benefit from lower fuel prices or interest rates due
    to amounts fixed at the time of entering into the hedge
    agreement.


 



    The
    loss of key personnel could negatively affect
    business.


 


    KCS’ success substantially depends on its ability to
    attract and retain key members of the senior management team and
    the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. Recruiting,
    motivating, and retaining qualified





    
    16



Table of Contents





    management personnel, particularly those with expertise in the
    railroad industry, are vital to operations and success. There is
    substantial competition for qualified management personnel and
    there can be no assurance that KCS will always be able to
    attract or retain qualified personnel. Employment agreements
    with senior management are terminable at any time by either
    party. If KCS loses one or more of these key executives or
    principals, its ability to successfully implement its business
    plans and the value of its common stock could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    A
    majority of KCS’ employees belong to labor unions. Strikes
    or work stoppages could adversely affect
    operations.


 


    The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with
    various labor unions in the United States and Mexico. As of
    December 31, 2009, approximately 80% of KCSR’s and
    KCSM’s employees were covered by labor contracts subject to
    collective bargaining. The Company may be subject to, among
    other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a
    result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements
    and labor contracts or KCS’ potential inability to
    negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. In the United
    States, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an
    industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions
    of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond
    KCS’ control. KCS may, therefore, be subject to terms and
    conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a
    material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows. If the unionized workers in the United
    States or Mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or
    other slowdown, if other employees were to become unionized, or
    if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were
    renegotiated, KCS could experience a significant disruption of
    its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Although the
    U.S. Railway Labor Act imposes restrictions on the right of
    United States railway workers to strike, there is no law in
    Mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway
    workers in that country to strike.


 



    KCS
    faces possible catastrophic loss and liability and its insurance
    may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to
    others.


 


    The operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk
    of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property
    loss. In the course of KCS’ operations, spills or other
    environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business
    interruption due to political developments, as well as labor
    disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result
    in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs.
    Collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause
    serious bodily injury, death, and extensive property damage,
    particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated
    areas. Additionally, KCS’ operations may be affected from
    time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes,
    volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. The occurrence of
    a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ operations and financial condition. The Company
    maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice
    against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of
    its business and business interruption due to natural disaster.
    However, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on
    coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against.
    This insurance may not be sufficient to cover KCS’ damages
    or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be
    available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, KCS is
    subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become
    insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in
    the future. Even with insurance, if any catastrophic
    interruption of service occurs, KCS may not be able to restore
    service without a significant interruption to operations which
    could have an adverse effect on KCS’ financial condition.


 



    KCS’
    business may be affected by future acts of terrorism war or
    other acts of violence or crime.


 


    Terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the Company’s
    chemical transportation activities, any government response
    thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect KCS’
    results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.
    These acts may also impact the Company’s ability to raise
    capital or its future business opportunities. KCS’ rail
    lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect
    casualties of acts of terror, which could cause significant
    business interruption and damage to KCS’ property. In
    recent years, there have been





    
    17



Table of Contents





    reported incidents of train cargo robberies in the United States
    and Mexico. Other acts of violence or crime could also adversely
    affect the Company’s business.


 


    As a result, acts of terrorism or war or acts of crime or
    violence could result in increased costs and liabilities and
    decreased  revenues for KCS. In addition, insurance premiums
    charged for some or all of the applicable coverage currently
    maintained by KCS could increase dramatically or certain
    coverage may not be adequate to cover losses or may not be
    available in the future.


 



    KCSM’s
    Mexican Concession is subject to revocation or termination in
    certain circumstances which would prevent KCSM from operating
    its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business and financial condition.


 


    KCSM operates under the Concession granted by the Mexican
    government, which is renewable for up to 50 years, subject
    to certain conditions. The Concession gives KCSM exclusive
    rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail
    lines for 30 years of the
    50-year
    Concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights
    granted to other concessionaires. The SCT, which is principally
    responsible for regulating railroad services in Mexico, has
    broad powers to monitor KCSM’s compliance with the
    Concession and it can require KCSM to supply it with any
    technical, administrative and financial information it requests.
    Among other obligations, KCSM must comply with the investment
    commitments established in its business plan, which forms an
    integral part of the Concession, and must update the plan every
    five years. The SCT treats KCSM’s business plans
    confidentially. The SCT also monitors KCSM’s compliance
    with efficiency and safety standards established in the
    Concession. The SCT reviews, and may amend, these standards
    every five years.


 


    The Mexican Railroad Services Law and regulations provide the
    Mexican government certain rights in its relationship with KCSM
    under the Concession, including the right to take over the
    management of KCSM and its railroad in certain extraordinary
    cases, such as imminent danger to national security. In the
    past, the Mexican government has used such power with respect to
    other privatized industries, including the telecommunications
    industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. In
    addition, under Article 47 of the Mexican Railroad Services
    Law and its regulations, the SCT, in consultation with the
    Mexican Antitrust Commission, reserves the right to set service
    rates if it determines that effective competition does not exist
    in the Mexican railroad industry. The Mexican Antitrust
    Commission, however, has not published guidelines regarding the
    factors that constitute a lack of competition. It is therefore
    unclear under what particular circumstances the Mexican
    Antitrust Commission would deem a lack of competition to exist.
    If the SCT intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it sets
    may be too low to allow KCSM to operate profitably.


 


    Under the Concession, KCSM has the right to operate its rail
    lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated
    structures. If the Mexican government legally terminates the
    Concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain
    assets used in the operation of KCSM’s rail lines. All
    other property not covered by the Concession, including all
    locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, will remain
    KCSM’s property. The Mexican government will have the right
    to cause the Company to lease all service-related assets to it
    for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for
    additional one-year terms up to five years. The Mexican
    government must exercise this right within four months after
    revocation of the Concession. In addition, the Mexican
    government will also have a right of first refusal with respect
    to certain transfers by KCSM of railroad equipment within
    90 days after revocation of the Concession.


 


    The Mexican government may also temporarily seize control of
    KCSM’s rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural
    disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger
    to the domestic peace or economy. In such a case, the SCT may
    restrict KCSM’s ability to exploit the Concession in such
    manner as the SCT deems necessary under the circumstances, but
    only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. Mexican
    law requires that the Mexican government pay compensation if it
    effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public
    interest. With respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause
    other than international war, the Mexican Railroad Services Law
    and regulations provide that the Mexican government will
    indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to
    damages caused and losses suffered. However, these payments may
    not be sufficient to compensate KCSM for its losses and may not
    be timely made.




    
    18



Table of Contents





    The SCT may revoke the Concession if KCSM is sanctioned on three
    distinct occasions for unjustly interrupting the operation of
    its rail lines or for charging tariffs higher than the tariffs
    it has registered with the SCT. In addition, the SCT may revoke
    the Concession if, among other things, KCSM is sanctioned on
    five distinct occasions because KCSM restricts the ability of
    other Mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; KCSM fails
    to make payments for damages caused during the performance of
    services; KCSM fails to comply with any term or condition of the
    Mexican Railroad Services Law and regulations or the Concession;
    KCSM fails to make the capital investments required under its
    five-year business plan filed with the SCT; or KCSM fails to
    maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage
    as specified in the Mexican Railroad Services Law and
    regulations. In addition, the Concession would revoke
    automatically if KCSM changes its nationality or assigns or
    creates any lien on the Concession, or if there is a change in
    control of KCSM without the SCT’s approval. The SCT may
    also terminate the Concession as a result of KCSM’s
    surrender of its rights under the Concession, or for reasons of
    public interest or upon KCSM’s liquidation or bankruptcy.
    Revocation or termination of the Concession would prevent KCSM
    from operating its railroad and would materially adversely
    affect the Mexican operations and the ability to make payments
    on KCSM’s debt. If the Concession is terminated or revoked
    by the SCT for any reason, KCSM would receive no compensation
    and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures
    covered by the Concession, as well as all improvements made by
    it, would revert to the Mexican government.


 


    In April 2006, the SCT initiated proceedings against KCSM,
    claiming that KCSM had failed to make certain minimum capital
    investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year
    business plan filed with the SCT prior to its April 2005
    acquisition by KCS (collectively, the “Capital Investment
    Proceedings”). KCSM believes it made capital expenditures
    exceeding the required amounts. KCSM responded to the SCT by
    providing evidence in support of its investments and explaining
    why it believes sanctions are not appropriate. In May 2007, KCSM
    was served with an SCT resolution regarding the Capital
    Investment Proceeding for 2004, in which the SCT resolved to
    impose no sanction. In June 2007, KCSM was served with an SCT
    resolution regarding the Capital Investment Proceeding for 2005,
    in which the SCT determined that KCSM had indeed failed to make
    the minimum capital investments required for such year, and
    imposed a minimal fine. KCSM has filed an action in the Mexican
    Administrative and Fiscal Federal Court challenging this ruling.
    KCSM will have the right to challenge any adverse ruling.


 


    KCSM believes that even if a sanction is ultimately imposed as a
    consequence of the 2005 Capital Investment Proceeding, there
    will be no material adverse effect on its results of operations
    or financial condition. However, if a sanction were to be
    imposed, it would be considered a “generic” sanction
    under Mexican law (i.e., sanctions applied to conduct not
    specifically referred to in specific subsections of the Mexican
    railway law). If KCSM is ultimately sanctioned by the SCT for
    “generic” sanctions on five occasions over the term of
    the Concession, KCSM could be subject to possible future SCT
    action seeking revocation of the Concession. Such revocation
    would materially adversely affect the results of operations and
    financial condition of KCSM.


 



    KCS’
    ownership of KCSM and operations in Mexico subject it to
    economic and political risks.


 


    The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise,
    significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly,
    Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and
    state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on
    Mexican private sector entities in general and on KCSM’s
    Mexican operations in particular. KCS cannot predict the impact
    that the political landscape, including the recently implemented
    multiparty rule, will have on the Mexican economy. Furthermore,
    KCSM’s financial condition, results of operations and
    prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation,
    interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and
    other political, social and economic developments in or
    affecting Mexico.


 


    The Mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment
    deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. Although
    Mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there
    are currently no exchange controls in Mexico. Pursuant to the
    provisions of NAFTA, if Mexico experiences serious balance of
    payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the
    future, Mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange
    controls on investments made in Mexico, including those made by
    United States and





    
    19



Table of Contents





    Canadian investors. Any restrictive exchange control policy
    could adversely affect KCS’ ability to obtain dollars or to
    convert pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and
    principal payments due on indebtedness, to the extent KCS may
    have to effect those conversions, and could adversely affect the
    Company’s investment in KCSM. This could have a material
    adverse effect on KCS’ business and financial condition.


 


    Mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain
    regional, political and social tensions, and reforms regarding
    fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security,
    and oil have not been and may not be approved. The social and
    political situation in Mexico could adversely affect the Mexican
    economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ business, financial condition, and results of
    operation.


 



    Downturns
    in the United States economy or in trade between the United
    States and Asia or Mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar
    exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on KCS’
    business and results of operations.


 


    The level and timing of KCS’ Mexican business activity is
    heavily dependent upon the level of United States-Mexican
    trade and the effects of NAFTA on such trade. The Mexican
    operations depend on the United States and Mexican markets for
    the products KCSM transports, the relative position of Mexico
    and the United States in these markets at any given time, and
    tariffs or other barriers to trade. Downturns in the
    United States or Mexican economy or in trade between the
    United States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on
    KCS’ business results of operations and the Company’s
    ability to meet debt service obligations. In addition, KCS has
    invested significant amounts in developing its intermodal
    operations at the Port of Lazaro Cardenas, in part to provide
    Asian importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of
    the United States, and the level of intermodal traffic depends,
    to an extent, on the volume of Asian shipments routed through
    Lazaro Cardenas. Reduction in trading volumes, which may be
    caused by factors beyond KCS’ control, including increased
    government regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the
    safety and quality of Asian-manufactured products, may adversely
    affect KCS’ business and results of operations.


 


    Also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead
    to shifts in the types and volumes of Mexican imports and
    exports. Although a decrease in the level of exports of some of
    the commodities that KCSM transports to the United States may be
    offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities
    KCSM hauls into Mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase
    might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. Future
    developments in United States-Mexican trade beyond the
    Company’s control may result in a reduction of freight
    volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and
    commodities KCSM carries.


 


    Any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of
    KCSM’s dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely
    affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness.
    Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in
    disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may
    limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into
    U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of
    interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness.
    Although the Mexican government currently does not restrict, and
    for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of
    Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into
    U.S. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of
    Mexico, the Mexican government could, as in the past, institute
    restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability
    to transfer or convert pesos into U.S. dollars or other
    currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the
    U.S. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments.
    Devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the
    U.S. dollar may also adversely affect U.S. dollar
    prices for KCS’ securities. Currency fluctuations are
    likely to continue to have an effect on KCS’ financial
    condition in future periods.


 



    Mexico
    may experience high levels of inflation in the future which
    could adversely affect KCS’ results of
    operations.


 


    Mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may
    experience high inflation in the future. During most of the
    1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, Mexico experienced
    periods of high levels of inflation. The annual rates of
    inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in
    the National Consumer Price Index, as provided by Banco de
    México, were 3.6% in 2009, 6.5% in 2008 and 3.8% in 2007. A
    substantial





    
    20



Table of Contents





    increase in the Mexican inflation rate would have the effect of
    increasing some of KCSM’s costs, which could adversely
    affect its results of operations and financial condition. High
    levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between
    Mexico and the United States, and other countries, which could
    adversely affect KCSM’s results of operations.


 



    Risk
    Factors Relating to Ongoing Litigation


 


    KCS is party to various legal proceedings and administrative
    actions arising in the ordinary course of business including
    those specifically mentioned below:


 



    KCSM
    was named as a defendant in a lawsuit, which if adversely
    resolved, could result in KCS being ordered to return the stock
    of KCSM to the Federal Government of Mexico, thus losing its
    Concession to operate its Mexican railroad.


 


    On December 9, 2009, KCSM was notified of a lawsuit filed
    by Minera México, S.A. de C.V. (“Minera
    México”), a subsidiary of Grupo México, S.A.B. de
    C.V. and an affiliate of Ferromex, against the Federal
    Government of Mexico, the SCT, Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
    México (“FNM”), KCSM, Nafta Rail, S.A. de C.V., a
    subsidiary of KCS (“Nafta Rail”), and KCS. The lawsuit
    claims that after the privatization bidding process for the
    acquisition of a majority interest in Ferrocarril del Noreste,
    S.A. de C.V. (“FNE”) (now KCSM) had concluded in 1997,
    in which the bidding was awarded to Transportación
    Ferroviaria Mexicana, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“TFM”) and
    the relevant stock purchase agreement was signed, the defendants
    improperly amended the stock purchase agreement and the
    purchasers paid a price lower than the price offered. The
    lawsuit alleges that the Mexican Federal Government, the SCT,
    FNM, KCSM, Nafta Rail and KCS violated a variety of the rules
    and regulations associated with the privatization bidding
    process. As a result of these alleged improprieties, Minera
    México claims the acquisition of FNE by KCS (through TFM)
    should be declared null and void and, consequently, the capital
    stock of FNE should be returned to the Federal Government of
    Mexico and Minera México, as the second place bidder in the
    bidding process, should be awarded the right to purchase the
    capital stock of FNE. On February 9, 2010, Minera
    México agreed to dismiss this lawsuit.


 



    KCSM
    is involved in several disputes related to providing service to
    a Mexican subsidiary of a large U.S. auto manufacturer, which if
    adversely resolved could have a negative impact on its business
    and operations.


 


    In March 2008, a Mexican subsidiary of a large U.S. Auto
    Manufacturer (the “Auto Manufacturer”) filed an
    arbitration suit against KCSM under a contract for services to
    the Auto Manufacturer’s plants in Mexico, which, as
    amended, had a stated termination date of January 31, 2008.
    The Auto Manufacturer claimed that the contract was implicitly
    extended and continued in effect beyond its stated termination
    date. The Auto Manufacturer is seeking a declaration by the
    arbitrator that the rates being assessed by KCSM are
    discriminatory, even though the rates being charged are within
    the legal rate limits set by Mexican law for such freight
    transportation. KCSM claimed that the contract did in fact
    expire on its stated termination date, and that services
    rendered thereafter are thus subject to the general terms and
    conditions (including rates) applicable in the absence of a
    specific contract, pursuant to Mexican law. Accordingly, KCSM
    filed a counterclaim against the Auto Manufacturer to, among
    other things, recover the applicable rate difference between the
    rates under the contract and KCSM’s rates. On May 18,
    2009, the arbitrator issued an award on the first phase of the
    arbitration proceeding, ruling that the contract had terminated
    on May 8, 2008. As of the date of this filing, the second
    phase of the arbitration proceeding, regarding the claim that
    the rates assessed by KCSM are discriminatory, is in the
    evidentiary stage and has not been resolved. Management believes
    the final resolution of these claims will not have any material
    impact on KCSM’s results of operations.


 


    In May 2008, the SCT initiated a proceeding against KCSM at the
    request of the Auto Manufacturer, alleging that KCSM
    impermissibly bundled international rail services and engaged in
    discriminatory pricing practices with respect to rail services
    provided by KCSM to the Auto Manufacturer. In March 2009, the
    SCT issued a decision determining that KCSM had engaged in the
    activities alleged, but imposed no sanction since





    
    21



Table of Contents





    this was the first time KCSM had engaged in such activities. On
    May 6, 2009, KCSM challenged the SCT’s decision and
    the appeal is currently pending in the Administrative and Fiscal
    Federal Court.


 


    On July 23, 2008, the SCT delivered notice to KCSM of new
    proceedings against KCSM, claiming, among other things, that
    KCSM refused to grant Ferromex access to certain trackage over
    which Ferromex alleges it has trackage rights on six different
    occasions and thus denied Ferromex the ability to provide
    service to the Auto Manufacturer at this location.


 


    KCSM believes it has defenses to the imposition of sanctions for
    the forgoing proceedings and is vigorously contesting these
    allegations. KCSM does not believe that these SCT proceedings
    will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations
    or financial condition. However, if KCSM is ultimately
    sanctioned by the SCT for “generic” sanctions on five
    occasions over the term of the Concession, KCSM could be subject
    to possible future SCT action seeking revocation of the
    Concession. Revocation of the Concession would materially
    adversely affect KCSM’s results of operations and financial
    condition.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B