Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Risks
    Related to an Investment in KCS’ Common Stock


 



    The
    price of KCS’ common stock may fluctuate significantly,
    which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock
    when they want to or at prices they find
    attractive.


 


    The price of KCS’ common stock on the New York Stock
    Exchange (“NYSE”), listed under the ticker symbol
    “KSU”, constantly changes. The Company expects that
    the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate.


 


    The Company’s stock price can fluctuate as a result of a
    variety of factors, many of which are beyond KCS’ control.
    These factors include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    quarterly variations in operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating results that vary from the expectations of management,
    securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in expectations as to future financial performance,
    including financial estimates by securities analysts, ratings
    agencies and investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments generally affecting the railroad industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements by KCS or its competitors of significant
    contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint
    ventures or capital commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings
    against KCS;




 



     
        • 

    
    KCS’ dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of
    dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    future sales of KCS’ equity or equity-linked securities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on
    preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general domestic and international economic conditions.






    
    6



Table of Contents



 


    In addition, from time to time the stock market in general has
    experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to
    the operating performance of a particular company. These broad
    market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of
    KCS’ common stock.


 



    KCS’
    ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock is currently
    restricted, and KCS does not anticipate paying cash dividends on
    its common stock in the foreseeable future.


 


    KCS has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on
    its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. In
    addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the Company may be
    limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock
    so that it can maintain an appropriate level of debt. During the
    first quarter of 2000, the Board of Directors suspended common
    stock dividends. KCS does not anticipate making any cash
    dividend payments to its common stockholders for the foreseeable
    future.


 



    Holders
    of the Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred
    Stock may have special voting rights if KCS fails to pay
    dividends on that preferred stock over a stated number of
    quarters.


 


    Because of certain restrictions in the indentures governing
    notes issued by KCSR, KCS did not pay dividends on its
    Series C Preferred Stock or Series D Preferred Stock
    commencing on May 15, 2006, for the first quarter of 2006,
    until those dividend arrearages were made up in February 2007.
    If dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock or
    Series D Preferred Stock are in arrears for six consecutive
    quarters (or an equivalent number of days in the aggregate,
    whether or not consecutive) holders of the Series C
    Preferred Stock or Series D Preferred Stock, as applicable,
    will be entitled to elect two of the authorized number of
    directors at the next annual stockholders’ meeting at which
    directors are elected and at each subsequent stockholders’
    meeting until such time as all accumulated dividends are paid on
    the Series C Preferred Stock or Series D Preferred
    Stock, as applicable, or set aside for payment. In addition, KCS
    will not be eligible to register future offerings of securities
    on
    Form S-3
    or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies
    that qualify as “well-known seasoned issuers” under
    SEC rules if KCS fails to pay dividends on its preferred stock.
    If that happens it could adversely affect KCS’ ability to
    access capital markets, and increase the cost of accessing
    capital markets, until the Company again qualifies as a
    “well-known seasoned issuer.”


 



    Sales
    of substantial amounts of KCS’ common stock in the public
    market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the
    common stock.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, there were 10,284,625 shares
    of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991
    Amended and Restated Stock Option and Performance Award Plan and
    the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2,087,602 shares of
    common stock held by executive officers and directors outside
    those plans, and 20,389,113 shares of common stock reserved
    for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of
    convertible preferred stock. Sales of common stock by employees
    upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and
    directors subject to compliance with Rule 144 under the
    Securities Act, and sales of common stock that may be issued
    upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the
    perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the
    market price of KCS’ common stock.


 



    KCS
    has provisions in its charter, bylaws and Rights Agreement that
    could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a
    controlling interest in KCS and that could deprive an investor
    of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of
    KCS’ common stock.


 


    KCS has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or
    prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. These
    provisions may deprive KCS’ stockholders of an opportunity
    to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices.
    For example, the restated certificate of incorporation provides
    for a classified Board of Directors. It further provides that
    the vote of 70% of the shares entitled to vote in the election
    of directors is required to amend the restated certificate of
    incorporation to increase the number of directors to more than
    eighteen, abolish cumulative voting for directors and abolish
    the classification of the board. The same vote requirement is
    imposed by the restated certificate of incorporation on certain
    transactions involving mergers, consolidations, sales or leases
    of assets with or to certain owners of more than 5% of KCS’
    outstanding stock entitled to vote in the election of directors.
    The bylaws provide that a stockholder must give



    
    7



Table of Contents




    the Company advance written notice of its intent to nominate a
    director or raise a matter at an annual meeting. In addition,
    the Company has adopted a Rights Agreement which under certain
    circumstances would significantly impair the ability of third
    parties to acquire control of KCS without prior approval of the
    Board of Directors.


 



    Risks
    Related to KCS’ Business


 



    KCS
    competes against other railroads and other transportation
    providers.


 


    The Company’s domestic and international operations are
    subject to competition from other railroads, in particular the
    Union Pacific Railroad Company (“UP”) and BNSF Railway
    Company (“BNSF”) in the United States and
    Ferromex in Mexico. Many of KCS’ rail competitors are much
    larger and have significantly greater financial and other
    resources than KCS. In addition, the Company is subject to
    competition from truck carriers and from barge lines and other
    maritime shipping. Increased competition could result in
    downward pressure on freight rates. Competition with other
    railroads and other modes of transportation is generally based
    on the rates charged, the quality and reliability of the service
    provided and the quality of the carrier’s equipment for
    certain commodities. While KCS must build or acquire and
    maintain its infrastructure, truck carriers, maritime shippers
    and barges are able to use public rights-of-way. The trucking
    industry provides rate and service competition to the railroad
    industry. Trucking requires substantially smaller capital
    investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads and
    allows for more frequent and flexible scheduling. Continuing
    competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to
    competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the
    quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations
    in which the Company operates, or legislation or regulations
    that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as
    increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions,
    could have a material adverse effect on results of operations,
    financial condition and liquidity.


 


    A central part of KCS’ growth strategy is based upon the
    conversion of truck traffic to rail. There can be no assurance
    the Company will have the ability to convert traffic from truck
    to rail transport or that the customers already converted will
    be retained. If the railroad industry in general, and the
    Mexican operations in particular, are unable to preserve their
    competitive advantages vis-à-vis the trucking industry,
    projected revenue growth from the Mexican operations could be
    adversely affected. Additionally, the revenue growth
    attributable to the Mexican operations could be affected by,
    among other factors, KCS’ inability to grow its existing
    customer base and capture additional cargo transport market
    share because of competition from the shipping industry and
    other railroads.


 


    The North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”)
    called for Mexican trucks to have unrestricted access to
    highways in United States border states by 1995 and full access
    to all United States highways by January 2000. However, the
    United States did not follow that timetable because of concerns
    over Mexico’s trucking safety standards. In February 2001,
    a NAFTA tribunal ruled in arbitration between the United States
    and Mexico that the United States must allow Mexican trucks to
    cross the border and operate on United States highways. On
    March 14, 2002, as part of its agreement under NAFTA, the
    U.S. Department of Transportation issued safety rules that
    allow Mexican truckers to apply for operating authority to
    transport goods beyond the
    20-mile
    commercial zones along the United States-Mexico border. These
    safety rules require Mexican motor carriers seeking to operate
    in the United States to, among other things, pass safety
    inspections, obtain valid insurance with a United States
    registered insurance company, conduct alcohol and drug testing
    for drivers and obtain a U.S. Department of Transportation
    identification number. Under the rules issued by the
    U.S. Department of Transportation, it was expected that the
    border would have been opened to Mexican motor carriers in 2002.
    However, in January 2003, in response to a lawsuit filed in May
    2002 by a coalition of environmental, consumer and labor groups,
    the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued a
    ruling which held that the rules issued by the
    U.S. Department of Transportation violated federal
    environmental laws because the Department of Transportation
    failed to adequately review the impact on United States air
    quality of rules allowing Mexican carriers to transport beyond
    the 20-mile
    commercial zones along the United States-Mexico border. The
    Court of Appeals ruling required the Department of
    Transportation to provide an Environmental Impact Statement on
    the Mexican truck plan and to certify compliance with the United
    States Clean Air Act. The Department of Transportation requested
    the United States Supreme Court to review the Court of Appeals



    
    8



Table of Contents




    ruling and, on December 15, 2003, the Supreme Court granted
    the Department of Transportation’s request. On June 7,
    2004, the Supreme Court unanimously overturned the Court of
    Appeals ruling. The Department of Transportation is in the midst
    of a pilot program which commenced in early 2007 granting a
    limited number of Mexican trucking companies the right to
    operate on international movements between the
    United States and Mexico and to pick up or deliver outside
    of the border commercial zone. There can be no assurance that
    truck transport between Mexico and the United States will not
    increase substantially in the future. Any such increase in truck
    traffic could affect KCS’ ability to continue converting
    traffic to rail from truck transport because it may result in an
    expansion in the availability, or an improvement in the quality,
    of the trucking services offered by Mexican carriers.


 


    Through KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican government, the
    Company has the right to control and operate the southern half
    of the rail-bridge at Laredo, Texas. Under the Concession, KCSM
    must grant to Ferromex the right to operate over a north-south
    portion of KCSM’s rail lines between Ramos Arizpe near
    Monterrey and the city of Queretaro that constitutes over 600
    kilometers (360 miles) of KCSM’s main track. Using
    these trackage rights, Ferromex may be able to compete with KCSM
    over KCSM’s rail lines for traffic between Mexico City and
    the United States. The Concession also requires KCSM to grant
    rights to use certain portions of its tracks to Ferrosur and the
    “belt railroad” operated in the greater Mexico City
    area by FTVM, thereby providing Ferrosur with more efficient
    access to certain Mexico City industries. As a result of having
    to grant trackage rights to other railroads, KCSM loses the
    capacity of using a portion of its tracks at all times.


 


    Ferromex, the operator of the largest railway system in Mexico,
    is in close proximity to KCSM’s rail lines. KCSM has
    experienced and continues to experience competition from
    Ferromex with respect to the transport of a variety of products.
    The rail lines operated by Ferromex run from Guadalajara and
    Mexico City to four United States border crossings west of the
    Nuevo Laredo-Laredo crossing, providing an alternative to
    KCSM’s routes for the transport of freight from those
    cities to the United States border. In addition, Ferromex
    directly competes with KCSM in some areas of its service
    territory, including Tampico, Saltillo, Monterrey, and Mexico
    City. Ferrosur competes directly with KCSM for traffic to and
    from southeastern Mexico. Ferrosur, like KCSM, also services
    Mexico City and Puebla.


 


    In November 2005, Grupo México, the controlling shareholder
    of Ferromex, acquired all of the shares of Ferrosur. The common
    control of Ferromex and Ferrosur would give Grupo México
    control over a nationwide railway system in Mexico and ownership
    of 50% of the shares of FTVM. The merger between Ferromex and
    Ferrosur has been declared illegal by the Mexican Antitrust
    Commission. Both Ferromex and Ferrosur have challenged this
    ruling. There can be no assurance as to whether Grupo
    México will be successful in challenging this ruling. If
    Grupo México is successful in its appeal, KCSM’s
    competitive position may be materially harmed.


 


    On August 3, 2006, COFECO announced an investigation into
    possible antitrust practices in the provision of rail cargo
    services. The targets of that investigation have not been
    identified, and while KCSM may be required to provide
    information in connection with the investigation, the Company
    does not believe KCSM’s operations are the subject of the
    inquiry, however there can be no assurance KCSM is not or will
    not become a subject of the inquiry.


 


    Rate reductions by competitors could make KCS’ freight
    services less competitive and KCS cannot assure that it would
    always be able to match these rate reductions. In recent years,
    KCS has experienced aggressive price competition from Ferromex
    in freight rates for agriculture products, which has adversely
    affected results of operations. KCS’ ability to respond to
    competitive pressures by decreasing rates without adversely
    affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on,
    among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs.
    KCS’ failure to respond to competitive pressures, and
    particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operation and financial condition.


 


    In recent years, there has also been significant consolidation
    among major North American rail carriers. The resulting merged
    railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to
    block other railroads’ access to efficient gateways and
    routing options that are currently and have been historically
    available. There



    
    9



Table of Contents




    can be no assurance that further consolidation in the railroad
    industry, whether in the United States or Mexico, will not have
    an adverse effect on operations.


 



    KCS’
    business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on
    agreements with other railroads and third parties.


 


    Operation of KCS’ rail network and its plans for growth and
    expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads
    and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic
    alliances. KCS’ operations are dependent on interchange,
    trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing agreements with
    other railroads and third parties that enable KCS to exchange
    traffic and utilize trackage the Company does not own. KCS’
    ability to provide comprehensive rail service to its customers
    depends in large part upon its ability to maintain these
    agreements with other railroads and third parties. The
    termination of, or the failure to renew, these agreements could
    adversely affect KCS’ business, financial condition and
    results of operations. KCS is also dependent in part upon the
    financial health and efficient performance of other railroads.
    For example, some of KCSR’s traffic moves over the
    UP’s lines via trackage rights, a significant portion of
    KCSR’s grain shipments originate with another rail carrier
    pursuant to marketing agreements with that carrier, and BNSF is
    KCS’ largest partner in the interchange of rail traffic.
    There can be no assurance that KCS will not be materially
    adversely affected by operational or financial difficulties of
    other railroads.


 


    Pursuant to the Concession, KCSM is required to grant rights to
    Ferromex, Ferrosur, and FTVM to use portions of KCSM’s
    tracks. Applicable law stipulates that Ferromex, Ferrosur and
    FTVM are required to grant to KCSM rights to use portions of
    their tracks. KCSM’s Concession classifies trackage rights
    as short trackage rights and long-distance trackage rights.
    Although all of these trackage rights have been granted under
    the Concession, no railroad has actually operated under the
    long-distance trackage rights because the means of setting rates
    for usage and often related terms of usage have not been agreed
    upon. Under the Mexican Railroad Services Law and regulations,
    the rates KCSM may charge for the right to use its tracks must
    be agreed upon in writing between KCSM and the party to which
    those rights are granted. However, if KCSM cannot reach an
    agreement on rates with rail carriers entitled to trackage
    rights on KCSM’s rail lines, the SCT is entitled to set the
    rates in accordance with Mexican law and regulation, which rates
    may not adequately compensate KCSM. KCSM has not been able to
    reach an agreement with Ferromex regarding the rates to be
    charged for trackage rights, interline services and haulage
    rights. KCSM and Ferromex are involved in judicial, civil and
    commercial litigation and administrative proceedings over the
    amounts payable to each other for interline services, haulage
    and trackage rights. Some of those disputes continue under
    litigation and therefore are pending final resolution. Any
    resolution of such procedures adverse to KCSM could have a
    negative impact on its business and operations. In March 2002,
    the SCT issued a ruling setting the rates for trackage and
    haulage rights. In August 2002, the SCT issued a ruling setting
    the rates for interline and terminal services. KCSM and Ferromex
    appealed both rulings. Following trial and appellate court
    decisions, the Mexican Supreme Court in February 2006, in a
    ruling from the bench, sustained KCSM’s appeal of the
    SCT’s trackage and haulage rights ruling, vacating the SCT
    ruling and ordering the SCT to issue a new ruling consistent
    with the Court’s decision. KCSM has not yet received the
    written opinion of the Mexican Supreme Court decision, nor has
    the Mexican Supreme Court decided the interline and terminal
    services appeal. In October 2006, KCSM was served with a claim
    by Ferromex, in which Ferromex asked for information concerning
    the interline traffic between KCSM and Ferromex, from January
    2002 to December 2004. The 29th Civil Court issued an order
    directing KCSM to allow Ferromex to review certain account logs.
    KCSM appealed such order to the 1st Civil District Court
    and is awaiting a decision. KCSM expects this litigation to
    continue over the next few years. The Company believes that,
    based on its assessment of the facts in this case, there will be
    no material impact to the consolidated financial statements.


 


    KCSM and Ferromex are parties to various civil cases involving
    disputes over the application and proper interpretation of the
    mandatory trackage rights. In August 2002, the SCT issued
    rulings determining Ferromex’s trackage rights in
    Monterrey, Nuevo León. KCSM and Ferromex both appealed the
    SCT’s rulings. At the Mexican Administrative Federal Court
    level, KCSM obtained what it believed were favorable rulings in
    April 2005. Ferromex appealed these rulings and the case was
    returned to the Mexican Administrative Federal Court. The
    Mexican Administrative Federal Court issued a ruling on
    June 11, 2007, which was served on



    
    10



Table of Contents




    KCSM on August 8, 2007. In the ruling, the Mexican
    Administrative Federal Court reversed the earlier favorable
    ruling and decided that Ferromex could use certain auxiliary
    tracks awarded to KCSM in its Concession. KCSM appealed this
    ruling at the beginning of September 2007, arguing that the
    Mexican Administrative Federal Court wrongly failed to consider
    the earlier favorable decision in making its revised ruling and
    also failed to consider the length and limits of the trackage
    rights included in KCSM’s Concession Title. The Company
    believes that based on its assessment of the facts in this case,
    there will be no material impact to the consolidated financial
    statements.


 



    KCS’
    debt capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total
    debt plus equity) is 50.4%. KCS’ leverage could adversely
    affect its ability to fulfill obligations under various debt
    instruments and operate its business.


 


    KCS’ level of debt could make it more difficult for it to
    borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money
    available to finance operations and other business activities,
    exposes the Company to the risk of increased interest rates,
    makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and
    adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in
    planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic
    conditions. KCS’ failure to comply with the financial and
    other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which,
    among other things, require KCS to maintain specified financial
    ratios and limit its ability to incur debt and sell assets,
    could result in an event of default that, if not cured or
    waived, could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business or prospects. If the Company does not
    have enough cash to service its debt, meet other obligations and
    fund other liquidity needs, KCS may be required to take actions
    such as requesting a waiver from lenders, reducing or delaying
    capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or
    refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking
    additional equity capital. KCS cannot assure that any of these
    remedies can be affected on commercially reasonable terms or at
    all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt
    agreements may restrict the Company from adopting some of these
    alternatives.


 


    The indebtedness of KCSM exposes it to risks of exchange rate
    fluctuations because any devaluation of the peso would cause the
    cost of KCSM’s dollar-denominated debt to increase and
    could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage in Mexico,
    compared to Mexican competitors that have less debt and greater
    operating and financing flexibility than KCSM does.


 



    KCS’
    business is capital intensive.


 


    The Company’s business is capital intensive and requires
    substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things,
    additions and improvements to roadway, structures and
    technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of
    equipment and the rail system. KCS’ failure to make
    necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could
    impair its ability to serve existing customers or accommodate
    increases in traffic volumes.


 


    KCS has funded, and expects to continue to fund, capital
    expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, equipment
    leases, debt financing and, to a lesser extent, vendor
    financing. KCS may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows
    from its operations or obtain sufficient funds from external
    sources to fund capital expenditure requirements. Even if
    financing is available, it may not be obtainable on acceptable
    terms and within the limitations contained in the indentures and
    other agreements relating to KCS’ debt.


 


    KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican government requires KCSM
    to make investments and undertake capital projects. If KCSM
    fails to make such capital investments, KCSM’s business
    plan commitments with the Mexican government may be at risk,
    requiring KCSM to seek waivers of its business plan. There is no
    assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by
    the SCT. KCSM may defer capital expenditures under its business
    plan with the permission of the SCT. However, the SCT might not
    grant this permission, and any failure by KCSM to comply with
    the capital investment commitments in its business plan could
    result in sanctions imposed by the SCT, and could result in
    revocation of the Concession if sanctions are imposed on five
    distinct occasions. The Company cannot assure that the Mexican
    government would grant any such permission or waiver. If such
    permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and KCSM is
    sanctioned, its Concession might be at risk of revocation, which
    would materially adversely affect KCS’ financial



    
    11



Table of Contents




    condition and results of operations. See “KCSM’s
    Mexican Concession is subject to revocation or termination in
    certain circumstances” below.


 



    KCS’
    business may be adversely affected by changes in general
    economic, weather or other conditions.


 


    KCS’ operations may be adversely affected by changes in the
    economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that
    produce and consume the freight that KCS transports. The
    relative strength or weakness of the United States and Mexican
    economies affect the businesses served by KCS. PCRC and Panarail
    are directly affected by the Panamanian local economy and
    trans-Pacific trade flows. KCS’ investments in Mexico and
    Panama expose the Company to risks associated with operating in
    Mexico and Panama, including, among others, cultural
    differences, varying labor, regulatory and operating practices,
    political risk and differences between the United States,
    Mexican and Panamanian economies. Historically, a stronger
    economy has resulted in improved results for KCS’ rail
    transportation operations. Conversely, when the economy has
    slowed, results have been less favorable. If an economic
    slowdown or recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail
    shipments is likely to be reduced, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business and financial condition.


 


    The Company’s operations may also be affected by natural
    disasters or adverse weather conditions. The Company operates in
    and along the Gulf Coast of the United States, and its
    facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and
    other extreme weather conditions. For example, hurricanes have
    adversely affected some of the Company’s shippers located
    along the Gulf Coast and caused interruptions in the flow of
    traffic within the southern United States and between the United
    States and Mexico. As another example, a weak harvest in the
    midwest may substantially reduce the volume of business handled
    for agricultural products customers. Many of the goods and
    commodities transported experience cyclical demand. KCS’
    results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclical
    demand because of the significant fixed costs inherent in
    railroad operations. Significant reductions in the volume of
    rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other conditions
    could have a material adverse effect on KCS’ business,
    financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.


 


    The transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally
    tracking the cycles of the world economy. Although
    transportation markets are affected by general economic
    conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each
    particular market segment that may influence operating results.
    Some of KCS’ customers do business in industries that are
    highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing
    and agriculture industries. Any downturn in these industries
    could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Also,
    some of the products transported have had a historical pattern
    of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the
    general economic environment and by industry capacity and
    demand. For example, global steel and petrochemical prices have
    decreased in the past. KCS cannot assure that prices and demand
    for these products will not decline in the future, adversely
    affecting those industries and, in turn, the Company’s
    financial condition or results.


 



    KCS’
    business is subject to regulation by international, federal,
    state and local regulatory agencies. KCS’ failure to comply
    with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on
    its operations.


 


    KCS is subject to governmental regulation by international,
    federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its
    railroad operations, as well as a variety of health, safety,
    labor, environmental, and other matters. Government regulation
    of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the
    competitiveness and profitability of railroads. KCS’
    failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could
    have a material adverse effect on operations, including
    limitations on operating activities until compliance with
    applicable requirements is achieved. These government agencies
    may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which
    the Company operates without providing any recourse for any
    adverse effects on its business that occur as a result of such
    change. Additionally, some of the regulations require KCS to
    obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other
    authorizations. Any failure to maintain these licenses, permits,
    and other authorizations could adversely affect our business.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    KCS’
    business is subject to environmental, health, and safety laws
    and regulations that could require KCS to incur material costs
    or liabilities relating to environmental, health, or safety
    compliance or remediation.


 


    KCS’ operations are subject to extensive international,
    federal, state and local environmental, health, and safety laws
    and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the
    air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation
    and disposal of waste and other materials, the cleanup of
    hazardous material or petroleum releases, decommissioning of
    underground storage tanks and noise pollution. Violations of
    these laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties,
    permit revocations, facility shutdowns and other civil and
    criminal sanctions. From time to time, certain KCS facilities
    have not been in compliance with environmental, health and
    safety laws and regulations and there can be no assurance that
    KCS will always be in compliance with such laws and regulations
    in the future. The Company incurs, and expects to continue to
    incur, environmental compliance costs, including, in particular,
    costs necessary to maintain compliance with requirements
    governing chemical and hazardous material shipping operations,
    refueling operations and repair facilities. New laws and
    regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, new
    spills, releases or violations or the discovery of previously
    unknown contamination could require KCS to incur costs or
    subject KCS to liabilities that could have a material adverse
    effect on KCS’ business, results of operations, financial
    condition, and cash flows.


 


    In the operation of a railroad, it is possible that derailments,
    explosions, or other accidents may occur that could cause harm
    to the environment or to human life or health. As a result, KCS
    may incur costs in the future, which may be material, to address
    any such harm, including costs relating to the performance of
    clean-ups,
    natural resources damages and compensatory or punitive damages
    for harm to property or individuals.


 


    The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
    and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”)
    and similar state laws (known as “Superfund laws”)
    impose liability for the cost of remedial or removal actions,
    natural resources damages and related costs at certain sites
    identified as posing a threat to the environment or public
    health. CERCLA imposes joint, strict and several liabilities on
    the owners and operators of facilities in which hazardous waste
    and other hazardous substances are deposited or from which they
    are released or are likely to be released into the environment.
    Liability may be imposed, without regard to fault or the
    legality of the activity, on certain classes of persons,
    including the current and certain prior owners or operators of a
    site where hazardous substances have been released and persons
    that arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous
    substances. In addition, other potentially responsible parties,
    adjacent landowners or other third parties may initiate cost
    recovery actions or toxic tort litigation against sites subject
    to CERCLA or similar state laws. Given the nature of its
    business, KCS presently has environmental investigation and
    remediation obligations at certain sites, including a former
    foundry site in Alexandria, Louisiana, and will likely incur
    such obligations at additional sites in the future. Liabilities
    accrued for environmental costs represent the Company’s
    best estimate of the probable future obligation for the
    remediation and settlement of these sites. Although the recorded
    liability is the best estimate of all probable costs,
    clean-up
    costs cannot be predicted with absolute certainty, and may
    exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving
    environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the
    extent of other parties’ participation, developments in
    environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective
    action that may ultimately be required.


 


    The Mexican operations are subject to Mexican federal and state
    laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
    environment. The primary environmental law in Mexico is the
    General Law of Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection
    (the “Ecological Law”). The Mexican federal agency in
    charge of overseeing compliance with and enforcement of the
    Ecological Law is the Ministry of Environmental Protection and
    Natural Resources (“Semarnat”). The regulations issued
    under the Ecological Law and technical environmental
    requirements issued by Semarnat have promulgated standards for,
    among other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions,
    noise pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and
    handling of hazardous and solid waste. As part of its
    enforcement powers, Semarnat is empowered to bring
    administrative and criminal proceedings and impose economic
    sanctions against companies that violate environmental laws and
    temporarily, or even permanently, close non-complying
    facilities. KCSM is also subject to the laws of



    
    13



Table of Contents




    various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect
    to the discharge of materials into the environment and to
    environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments of
    each of the Mexican states in which KCSM’s facilities are
    located. The terms of KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican
    government also impose environmental compliance obligations on
    KCSM. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that
    unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of additional
    or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have
    on KCSM’s results of operations, cash flows or financial
    condition. Failure to comply with any such environmental laws or
    regulations may result in the termination of KCSM’s
    Concession or in fines or penalties that may affect
    profitability.


 



    KCSR
    has been named as a defendant in several putative class action
    lawsuits that may divert management’s attention from the
    Company’s business, cause the Company to incur substantial
    expenses, and in the event of an adverse result expose the
    Company to significant damages and penalties.


 


    As described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K,
    as of December 31, 2007, KCSR has been included along with
    several other major U.S. railroads in 28 putative class
    actions alleging that the individual railroads conspired to fix
    fuel surcharges in violation of U.S. antitrust laws. While
    the Company believes these price fixing allegations have no
    merit and intends to vigorously defend these claims, no
    assurance can be given regarding the outcomes of these lawsuits.
    These and related matters have required, and will continue to
    require, the Company to incur substantial expenses for legal and
    other professional services. If the Company is found liable in
    these proceedings, it could be required to pay damages (possibly
    including treble damages) and penalties and might face
    additional remedies that could harm its financial condition and
    operating results.


 



    KCS’
    business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in
    fuel supplies. Any significant increase in the cost of fuel that
    is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe
    disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse
    effect on KCS’ business, results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    KCS incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and
    these costs represent a significant portion of its
    transportation expenses. Significant price increases for fuel
    may have a material adverse effect on operating results. Fuel
    expense increased from 19% of consolidated operating costs
    during 2006 to 20% of consolidated operating costs during 2007.
    KCS has been able to pass the majority of these fuel cost
    increases on to customers in the form of fuel surcharges applied
    either in the form of an increase in the freight rate or direct
    customer billings. If KCS is unable to recapture its costs of
    fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially
    adversely affected.


 


    Fuel costs are affected by traffic levels, efficiency of
    operations and equipment, and petroleum market conditions. The
    supply and cost of fuel are subject to market conditions and are
    influenced by numerous factors beyond the Company’s
    control, including general economic conditions, world markets,
    government programs and regulations, and competition. In
    addition, instability in the Middle East and interruptions in
    domestic production and refining due to hurricane damage may
    result in an increase in fuel prices. Fuel prices and supplies
    could also be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply, any
    interruptions in refining operations or by any imposition of
    mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. In the event of a
    severe disruption of fuel supplies resulting from supply
    shortages, political unrest, a disruption of oil imports,
    weather events, war, or otherwise, the resulting impact on fuel
    prices could materially adversely affect KCS’ operating
    results, financial condition, and cash flows.


 


    KCS currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel
    requirements for its Mexican operations almost exclusively
    through purchases at market prices from PEMEX Refinanción
    (“PEMEX”), the national oil company of Mexico, a
    government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the
    distribution and sale of diesel fuel in Mexico. KCSM is party to
    a fuel supply contract with PEMEX of indefinite duration. Either
    party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written
    notice to the other at any time. If the fuel contract is
    terminated and KCSM is unable to acquire diesel fuel from
    alternate sources on acceptable terms, the Mexican operations
    could be materially adversely affected.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    The
    loss of key personnel could negatively affect
    business.


 


    KCS’ success substantially depends on its ability to
    attract and retain key members of the senior management team and
    the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. Recruiting,
    motivating, and retaining qualified management personnel,
    particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are
    vital to operations and success. There is substantial
    competition for qualified management personnel and there can be
    no assurance that KCS will always be able to attract or retain
    qualified personnel. Employment agreements with senior
    management are terminable at any time by either party. If KCS
    loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its
    ability to successfully implement its business plans and the
    value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected.


 



    A
    majority of KCS’ employees belong to labor unions. Strikes
    or work stoppages could adversely affect
    operations.


 


    The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with
    various labor unions in the United States and Mexico. As of
    December 31, 2007, approximately 80% of KCSR employees and
    approximately 80% of KCSM employees were covered by labor
    contracts subject to collective bargaining. The Company may be
    subject to, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or work
    slowdowns as a result of disputes under these collective
    bargaining agreements and labor contracts or KCS’ potential
    inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions.
    In the United States, because such agreements are generally
    negotiated on an industry-wide basis, determination of the terms
    and conditions of labor agreements have been and could continue
    to be beyond KCS’ control. KCS may, therefore, be subject
    to terms and conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that
    could have a material adverse affect on its results of
    operations, financial position and cash flows. If the unionized
    workers in the United States or Mexico were to engage in a
    strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, if other employees were
    to become unionized, or if the terms and conditions in future
    labor agreements were renegotiated, KCS could experience a
    significant disruption of its operations and higher ongoing
    labor costs. Although the U.S. Railway Labor Act imposes
    restrictions on the right of United States railway workers to
    strike, there is no law in Mexico imposing similar restrictions
    on the right of railway workers in that country to strike.


 



    KCS
    faces possible catastrophic loss and liability and its insurance
    may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to
    others.


 


    The operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk
    of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property
    loss. In the course of KCS’ operations, spills or other
    environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business
    interruption due to political developments, as well as labor
    disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result
    in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs.
    Collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause
    serious bodily injury, death, and extensive property damage,
    particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated
    areas. Additionally, KCS’ operations may be affected from
    time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes,
    volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. The occurrence of
    a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ operations and financial condition. The Company
    maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice
    against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of
    its business and business interruption due to natural disaster.
    However, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on
    coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against.
    This insurance may not be sufficient to cover KCS’ damages
    or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be
    available at commercially reasonable rates. Even with insurance,
    if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, KCS may not
    be able to restore service without a significant interruption to
    operations which could have an adverse effect on KCS’
    financial condition.


 



    KCS’
    business may be affected by future acts of terrorism or
    war.


 


    Terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the Company’s
    chemical transportation activities, any government response
    thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect KCS’
    results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.
    These acts may also impact the Company’s ability to raise
    capital or its future business opportunities. KCS’ rail
    lines and facilities could be direct targets or indirect
    casualties of acts of terror, which



    
    15



Table of Contents




    could cause significant business interruption and result in
    increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. In
    addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the
    terrorism coverage currently maintained by KCS could increase
    dramatically or certain coverage may not be available in the
    future.


 



    KCSM’s
    Mexican Concession is subject to revocation or termination in
    certain circumstances which would prevent KCSM from operating
    its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business and financial condition.


 


    KCSM operates under a
    50-year
    Concession granted by the Mexican government. The Concession
    gives KCSM exclusive rights to provide freight transportation
    services over its rail lines for 30 years of the
    50-year
    Concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights
    granted to other concessionaires. The SCT is principally
    responsible for regulating railroad services in Mexico. The SCT
    has broad powers to monitor KCSM’s compliance with the
    Concession and it can require KCSM to supply it with any
    technical, administrative and financial information it requests.
    Among other obligations, KCSM must comply with the investment
    commitments established in its business plan, which forms an
    integral part of the Concession, and must update the plan every
    five years. The SCT treats KCSM’s business plans
    confidentially. The SCT also monitors KCSM’s compliance
    with efficiency and safety standards established in the
    Concession. The SCT reviews, and may amend, these standards
    every five years.


 


    The Mexican Railroad Services Law and regulations provide the
    Mexican government certain rights in its relationship with KCSM
    under the Concession, including the right to take over the
    management of KCSM and its railroad in certain extraordinary
    cases, such as imminent danger to national security. In the
    past, the Mexican government has used such power with respect to
    other privatized industries, including the telecommunications
    industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. In
    addition, under the Concession and the Mexican Railroad Services
    Law and regulations, the SCT, in consultation with the Mexican
    Antitrust Commission, reserves the right to set tariffs if it
    determines that effective competition does not exist in the
    Mexican railroad industry. The Mexican Antitrust Commission,
    however, has not published guidelines regarding the factors that
    constitute a lack of competition. It is therefore unclear under
    what particular circumstances the Mexican Antitrust Commission
    would deem a lack of competition to exist. If the SCT intervenes
    and sets tariffs, the rates it sets may be too low to allow KCSM
    to operate profitably.


 


    The Concession is renewable for up to 50 years, subject to
    certain conditions. The SCT may revoke the Concession if KCSM is
    sanctioned on three distinct occasions if KCSM unjustly
    interrupts the operation of its rail lines or if KCSM charges
    tariffs higher than the tariffs it has registered with the SCT.
    In addition, the SCT may revoke the Concession if, among other
    things, KCSM is sanctioned on five distinct occasions because
    KCSM restricts the ability of other Mexican rail operators to
    use its rail lines; KCSM fails to make payments for damages
    caused during the performance of services; KCSM fails to comply
    with any term or condition of the Mexican railroad services law
    and regulations or the Concession; KCSM fails to make the
    capital investments required under its five-year business plan
    filed with the SCT; or KCSM fails to maintain an obligations
    compliance bond and insurance coverage as specified in the
    Mexican railroad services law and regulations. In addition, the
    Concession would revoke automatically if KCSM changes its
    nationality or assigns or creates any lien on the Concession, or
    if there is a change in control of KCSM, without the SCT’s
    approval. The SCT may also terminate the Concession as a result
    of KCSM’s surrender of its rights under the Concession, or
    for reasons of public interest or upon KCSM’s liquidation
    or bankruptcy. Revocation or termination of the Concession would
    prevent KCSM from operating its railroad and would materially
    adversely affect the Mexican operations and the ability to make
    payments on KCSM’s debt. If the Concession is terminated or
    revoked by the SCT for any reason, KCSM would receive no
    compensation and its interest in its rail lines and all other
    fixtures covered by the Concession, as well as all improvements
    made by it, would revert to the Mexican government.


 


    In April 2006, the SCT initiated a proceeding against KCSM,
    claiming that KCSM had failed to make certain minimum capital
    investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year
    business plan filed with the SCT prior to its acquisition by
    KCS. KCSM believes it made capital expenditures exceeding the
    required amounts. KCSM responded to the SCT by providing
    evidence in support of its investments and explaining why it
    believes sanctions are not appropriate. In May 2007, the Company
    was served with an SCT resolution



    
    16



Table of Contents




    regarding the sanction proceeding for 2004. In June 2007, KCSM
    was served with an SCT notification that KCSM failed to make
    minimum capital investments for 2004 and 2005. The SCT imposed a
    fine in the amount of Ps.46,800. On August 16, 2007, KCSM
    filed a nullity claim against the 2004 investment plan
    resolution issued by the SCT, and on August 20, 2007, filed
    a nullity claim against the 2005 plan resolution, both before
    the Mexican Administrative Federal Court. If necessary, KCSM
    will have the right to appeal any adverse ruling by the Mexican
    Administrative Federal Court before the Mexican Federal
    Magistrates Tribunal. KCSM believes that even if the threatened
    sanctions become effective, there will be no material adverse
    effect on the operations of KCSM. However, if these proceedings
    are conclusively ruled adversely against KCSM and sanctions are
    imposed, KCSM could be subject to possible future revocation of
    its Concession if the SCT imposes sanctions on five distinct
    occasions for the same failure over the remaining term of the
    Concession.


 


    Under the Concession, KCSM has the right to operate its rail
    lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated
    structures. If the Mexican government legally terminates the
    Concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain
    assets used in the operation of KCSM’s rail lines. All
    other property not covered by the Concession, including all
    locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, will remain
    KCSM’s property. The Mexican government will have the right
    to cause the Company to lease all service-related assets to it
    for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for
    additional one-year terms up to five years. The Mexican
    government must exercise this right within four months after
    revocation of the Concession. In addition, the Mexican
    government will also have a right of first refusal with respect
    to certain transfers by KCSM of railroad equipment within
    90 days after revocation of the Concession.


 


    The Mexican government may also temporarily seize control of
    KCSM’s rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural
    disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger
    to the domestic peace or economy. In such a case, the SCT may
    restrict KCSM’s ability to exploit the Concession in such
    manner as the SCT deems necessary under the circumstances, but
    only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. Mexican
    law requires that the Mexican government pay compensation if it
    effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public
    interest. With respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause
    other than international war, the Mexican Railroad Services Law
    and regulations provide that the Mexican government will
    indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to
    damages caused and losses suffered. However, these payments may
    not be sufficient to compensate KCSM for its losses and may not
    be timely made.


 



    KCS’
    ownership of KCSM and operations in Mexico subject it to
    economic and political risks.


 


    The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise,
    significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly,
    Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and
    state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on
    Mexican private sector entities in general and on KCSM’s
    Mexican operations in particular. The national elections held on
    July 2, 2000, ended 71 years of rule by the
    Institutional Revolutionary Party and resulted in the increased
    representation of opposition parties in the Mexican Congress and
    in mayoral and gubernatorial positions. In 2006 the presidential
    and federal congressional elections in Mexico were held and
    after a close presidential race Felipe Calderón was elected
    Mexico’s president. Calderón is from the same
    political party as his predecessor, Vicente Fox. Although there
    have not yet been any material adverse repercussions resulting
    from this political change, multiparty rule is still relatively
    new in Mexico and changes in laws, president, public policies
    and government programs could result in economic or political
    conditions that could materially and adversely affect the
    Mexican operations. KCS cannot predict the impact that this new
    political landscape will have on the Mexican economy.
    Furthermore, KCSM’s financial condition, results of
    operations and prospects may be affected by currency
    fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation,
    social instability and other political, social and economic
    developments in or affecting Mexico.


 


    Mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain
    regional political and social tension, and reforms regarding
    fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security,
    and oil have not been and may not be approved. The social and
    political situation in Mexico could adversely affect the Mexican
    economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ business, financial condition, and results of
    operation.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    The Mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment
    deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. There are
    currently no exchange controls in Mexico. However, Mexico has
    imposed foreign exchange controls in the past. Pursuant to the
    provisions of NAFTA, if Mexico experiences serious balance of
    payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the
    future, Mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange
    controls on investments made in Mexico, including those made by
    United States and Canadian investors. Any restrictive exchange
    control policy could adversely affect KCS’ ability to
    obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of
    making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to
    the extent KCS may have to effect those conversions, and could
    adversely affect the Mexican economy or the Company’s
    investment in KCSM. This could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ business and financial condition.


 


    Securities of companies in emerging market countries tend to be
    influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging
    market countries. Some emerging market countries, including
    Argentina and Brazil, have experienced significant economic
    downturns and market volatility in the past. These events have
    had an adverse effect on the economic conditions and securities
    markets of other emerging market countries, including Mexico.


 



    Downturns
    in the United States economy or in trade between the United
    States and Asia or Mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar
    exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on KCS’
    business and results of operations.


 


    The level and timing of KCS’ Mexican business activity is
    heavily dependent upon the level of United States-Mexican
    trade and the effects of NAFTA on such trade. The Mexican
    operations depend on the United States and Mexican markets for
    the products KCSM transports, the relative position of Mexico
    and the United States in these markets at any given time, and
    tariffs or other barriers to trade. Downturns in the
    United States or Mexican economy or in trade between the
    United States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on
    KCS’ business results of operations and our ability to meet
    debt service obligations. In addition, KCS has invested
    significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations at
    the port of Lázaro Cárdenas, in part to provide Asian
    importers with an alternative to West Coast ports, and the level
    of intermodal traffic depends, to an extent, on the volume of
    Asian shipments routed through Lázaro Cárdenas.
    Reduction in trading volumes between KCS and its Asian trading
    partners, which may be caused by factors beyond KCS’
    control, including increased government regulations in light of
    recent concerns regarding the safety and quality of
    Asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect KCS’
    business and results of operations.


 


    Also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate could lead
    to shifts in the types and volumes of Mexican imports and
    exports. Although a decrease in the level of exports of some of
    the commodities that KCSM transports to the United States may be
    offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities
    KCSM hauls into Mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase
    might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. Future
    developments in United States-Mexican trade beyond the
    Company’s control may result in a reduction of freight
    volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and
    commodities KCSM carries.


 


    Any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of
    KCSM’s dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely
    affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness.
    Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in
    disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may
    limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into
    U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of
    interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness.
    Although the Mexican government currently does not restrict, and
    for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of
    Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into
    U.S. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of
    Mexico, the Mexican government could, as in the past, institute
    restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability
    to transfer or convert pesos into U.S. dollars or other
    currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the
    U.S. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments.
    Devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the
    U.S. dollar may also adversely affect U.S. dollar
    prices for KCS’ securities. Currency fluctuations are
    likely to continue to have an effect on KCS’ financial
    condition in future periods.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Mexico
    may experience high levels of inflation in the future which
    could adversely affect KCS’ results of
    operations.


 


    Mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may
    experience high inflation in the future. During most of the
    1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, Mexico experienced
    periods of high levels of inflation. The annual rates of
    inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in
    the National Consumer Price Index, as provided by Banco de
    Mexico, were 3.8% in 2007, 4.0% in 2006, and 3.3% in 2005. A
    substantial increase in the Mexican inflation rate would have
    the effect of increasing some of KCSM’s costs, which could
    adversely affect its results of operations and financial
    condition. High levels of inflation may also affect the balance
    of trade between Mexico and the United States, and other
    countries, which could adversely affect KCSM’s results of
    operations.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B