Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Risks
    Related to an Investment in KCS’ Common Stock


 



    The
    price of KCS’ common stock may fluctuate significantly,
    which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock
    when they want to or at prices they find
    attractive.


 


    The price of KCS’ common stock on the New York Stock
    Exchange (“NYSE”) constantly changes. The Company
    expects that the market price of its common stock will continue
    to fluctuate.


 


    The Company’s stock price can fluctuate as a result of a
    variety of factors, many of which are beyond KCS’ control.
    These factors include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    quarterly variations in operating results;



 


     
        • 

    
    operating results that vary from the expectations of management,
    securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in expectations as to future financial performance,
    including financial estimates by securities analysts, ratings
    agencies and investors;



 


     
        • 

    
    developments generally affecting the railroad industry;



 


     
        • 

    
    announcements by KCS or its competitors of significant
    contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint
    ventures or capital commitments;



 


     
        • 

    
    the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings
    against KCS;



 


     
        • 

    
    KCS’ dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of
    dividends;



 


     
        • 

    
    future sales of KCS’ equity or equity-linked securities;



 


     
        • 

    
    the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on
    preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock; and



 


     
        • 

    
    general domestic and international economic conditions.





 


    In addition, from time to time the stock market in general has
    experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to
    the operating performance of a particular company. These broad
    market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of
    KCS’ common stock.


 



    KCS’
    ability to pay dividends on its common stock is currently
    restricted, and KCS does not anticipate paying cash dividends on
    its common stock in the foreseeable future.


 


    KCS has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on
    its ability to pay dividends on its common stock. In addition,
    to maintain its credit ratings, the Company may be limited in
    its ability to pay dividends on its common stock so that it can
    maintain an appropriate level of debt. During the first quarter
    of 2000, the board of directors suspended common stock
    dividends. KCS does not anticipate making any cash dividend
    payments to its common stockholders for the foreseeable future.


 



    Holders
    of the Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred
    Stock may have special voting rights if KCS fails to pay
    dividends on that preferred stock over a stated number of
    quarters.


 


    Because of certain restrictions in the indentures governing
    notes issued by KCSR, KCS did not pay dividends on its
    Series C Preferred Stock or Series D Preferred Stock
    commencing on May 15, 2006, for the first quarter of 2006
    until those dividend arrearages were made up in February 2007.
    If dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock or
    Series D Preferred Stock are in arrears for six consecutive
    quarters (or an equivalent number of days in the aggregate,
    whether or not consecutive) holders of the Series C
    Preferred Stock or Series D Preferred Stock, as applicable,
    will be entitled to elect two of the authorized number of
    directors at the next annual stockholders’ meeting at which
    directors are elected and at each subsequent stockholders’
    meeting until such time as all accumulated dividends are paid on
    the Series C Preferred Stock or



    
    7



Table of Contents




    Series D Preferred Stock, as applicable, or set aside for
    payment. In addition, KCS will not be eligible to register
    future offerings of securities on
    Form S-3
    or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies
    that qualify as “well-known seasoned issuers” under
    SEC rules if KCS fails to pay dividends on its preferred stock.
    This could adversely affect KCS’ ability to access capital
    markets, and increase the cost of accessing capital markets,
    until the Company qualifies as a “well-known seasoned
    issuer.”


 



    Sales
    of substantial amounts of KCS’ common stock in the public
    market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the
    common stock.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, there were 10,607,068 shares
    of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991
    Amended and Restated Stock Option and Performance Award Plan and
    the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2,061,234 shares of
    common stock held by executive officers and directors outside
    those plans, and 20,389,113 shares of common stock reserved
    for issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of
    convertible preferred stock. Sales of common stock by employees
    upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and
    directors subject to compliance with Rule 144 under the
    Securities Act, and sales of common stock that may be issued
    upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the
    perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the
    market price of KCS’ common stock.


 



    KCS
    has provisions in its charter, bylaws and Rights Agreement that
    could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring KCS
    and that could deprive an investor of an opportunity to obtain a
    takeover premium for shares of KCS’ common
    stock.


 


    KCS has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or
    prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. These
    provisions may deprive KCS’ stockholders of an opportunity
    to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices.
    For example, the restated certificate of incorporation provides
    for a classified board of directors. It further provides that
    the vote of 70% of the shares entitled to vote in the election
    of directors is required to amend the restated certificate of
    incorporation to increase the number of directors to more than
    eighteen, abolish cumulative voting for directors and abolish
    the classification of the board. The same vote requirement is
    imposed by the restated certificate of incorporation on certain
    transactions involving mergers, consolidations, sales or leases
    of assets with or to certain owners of more than 5% of KCS’
    outstanding stock entitled to vote in the election of directors.
    The bylaws provide that a stockholder must give the Company
    advance written notice of its intent to nominate a director or
    raise a matter at an annual meeting. In addition, the Company
    has adopted a Rights Agreement which under certain circumstances
    would significantly impair the ability of third parties to
    acquire control of KCS without prior approval of the board of
    directors.


 



    Risks
    Related to KCS’ Business


 



    KCS
    competes against other railroads and other transportation
    providers.


 


    The Company’s domestic and international operations are
    subject to competition from other railroads, in particular the
    Union Pacific Railroad Company (“UP”) and BNSF Railway
    Company (“BNSF”) in the United States and
    Ferromex in Mexico. Many of KCS’ rail competitors are much
    larger and have significantly greater financial and other
    resources than KCS. In addition, the Company is subject to
    competition from truck carriers and from barge lines and other
    maritime shipping. Increased competition could result in
    downward pressure on freight rates. Competition with other
    railroads and other modes of transportation is generally based
    on the rates charged, the quality and reliability of the service
    provided and the quality of the carrier’s equipment for
    certain commodities. While KCS must build or acquire and
    maintain its infrastructure, truck carriers, maritime shippers
    and barges are able to use public
    rights-of-way.
    The trucking industry has in the past provided effective rate
    and service competition to the railroad industry. Trucking
    requires substantially smaller capital investment and
    maintenance expenditures than railroads and allows for more
    frequent and flexible scheduling. Continuing competitive
    pressures, any reduction in margins due to competitive
    pressures, future improvements that increase the quality of
    alternative modes of transportation in the locations in which
    the Company operates, or legislation or regulations that provide
    motor carriers with additional advantages,



    
    8



Table of Contents




    such as increased size of vehicles and reduced weight
    restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on results of
    operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 


    A material part of KCS’ growth strategy is based upon the
    conversion of truck traffic to rail. There can be no assurance
    the Company will have the ability to convert traffic from truck
    to rail transport or that the customers already converted will
    be retained. If the railroad industry in general, and the
    Mexican operations in particular, are unable to preserve their
    competitive advantages vis-à-vis the trucking industry,
    projected revenue growth from the Mexican operations could be
    adversely affected. Additionally, the revenue growth
    attributable to the Mexican operations could be affected by,
    among other factors, KCS’ inability to grow its existing
    customer base, negative macroeconomic developments impacting the
    United States or Mexican economies, and failure to capture
    additional cargo transport market share from the shipping
    industry and other railroads.


 


    NAFTA called for Mexican trucks to have unrestricted access to
    highways in United States border states by 1995 and full access
    to all United States highways by January 2000. However, the
    United States did not follow that timetable because of concerns
    over Mexico’s trucking safety standards. In February 2001,
    a NAFTA tribunal ruled in an arbitration between the United
    States and Mexico that the United States must allow Mexican
    trucks to cross the border and operate on United States
    highways. On March 14, 2002, as part of its agreement under
    NAFTA, the U.S. Department of Transportation issued safety
    rules that allow Mexican truckers to apply for operating
    authority to transport goods beyond the
    20-mile
    commercial zones along the United States-Mexico border. These
    safety rules require Mexican motor carriers seeking to operate
    in the United States to, among other things, pass safety
    inspections, obtain valid insurance with a United States
    registered insurance company, conduct alcohol and drug testing
    for drivers and obtain a U.S. Department of Transportation
    identification number. Under the rules issued by the
    U.S. Department of Transportation, it was expected that the
    border would have been opened to Mexican motor carriers in 2002.
    However, in January 2003, in response to a lawsuit filed in May
    2002 by a coalition of environmental, consumer and labor groups,
    the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued a
    ruling which held that the rules issued by the
    U.S. Department of Transportation violated federal
    environmental laws because the Department of Transportation
    failed to adequately review the impact on United States air
    quality of rules allowing Mexican carriers to transport beyond
    the 20-mile
    commercial zones along the United States-Mexico border. The
    Court of Appeals ruling required the Department of
    Transportation to provide an Environmental Impact Statement on
    the Mexican truck plan and to certify compliance with the United
    States Clean Air Act. The Department of Transportation requested
    the United States Supreme Court to review the Court of Appeals
    ruling and, on December 15, 2003, the Supreme Court granted
    the Department of Transportation’s request. On June 7,
    2004, the Supreme Court unanimously overturned the Court of
    Appeals ruling. Although the Department of Transportation is no
    longer required to provide an Environmental Impact Statement
    under the Supreme Court’s ruling, the United States and
    Mexico must still complete negotiations on safety inspections
    before the border is opened. KCS cannot predict when these
    negotiations will be completed. There can be no assurance that
    truck transport between Mexico and the United States will not
    increase substantially in the future if the United States
    and Mexico complete the negotiations and the border is opened.
    Any such increase in truck traffic could affect KCS’
    ability to continue converting traffic to rail from truck
    transport because it may result in an expansion in the
    availability, or an improvement in the quality, of the trucking
    services offered by Mexican carriers.


 


    Through KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican government, the
    Company has the right to control and operate the southern half
    of the rail-bridge at Laredo, Texas. Under the Concession, KCSM
    must grant to Ferromex the right to operate over a north-south
    portion of KCSM’s rail lines between Ramos Arizpe near
    Monterrey and the city of Queretaro that constitutes over 600
    kilometers (360 miles) of KCSM’s main track. Using
    these trackage rights, Ferromex may be able to compete with KCSM
    over KCSM’s rail lines for traffic between Mexico City and
    the United States. The Concession also requires KCSM to grant
    rights to use certain portions of its tracks to Ferrosur and the
    “belt railroad” operated in the greater Mexico City
    area by FTVM, thereby providing Ferrosur with more efficient
    access to certain Mexico City industries. As a result of having
    to grant trackage rights to other railroads, KCSM loses the
    capacity of using a portion of its tracks at all times.



    
    9



Table of Contents



 


    Ferromex, the operator of the largest railway system in Mexico,
    is in close proximity to KCSM’s rail lines. In particular,
    KCSM has experienced and continues to experience competition
    from Ferromex with respect to the transport of a variety of
    products. The rail lines operated by Ferromex run from
    Guadalajara and Mexico City to four United States border
    crossings west of the Nuevo Laredo-Laredo crossing, providing an
    alternative to KCSM’s routes for the transport of freight
    from those cities to the United States border. In addition,
    Ferromex directly competes with KCSM in some areas of its
    service territory, including Tampico, Saltillo, Monterrey and
    Mexico City. Ferrosur competes directly with KCSM for traffic to
    and from southeastern Mexico. Ferrosur, like KCSM, also services
    Mexico City and Puebla.


 


    In November 2005, Grupo México, the controlling shareholder
    of Ferromex, acquired all of the shares of Ferrosur. The common
    control of Ferromex and Ferrosur would give Grupo México
    control over a nationwide railway system in Mexico and ownership
    of 50% of the shares of FTVM. The merger between Ferromex and
    Ferrosur has been declared illegal by the Mexican Antitrust
    Commission. Both Ferromex and Ferrosur have challenged this
    ruling. There can be no assurance as to whether Grupo
    México will be successful in challenging this ruling. If
    Grupo México is successful in its appeal, KCSM’s
    competitive position may be harmed.


 


    On August 3, 2006, the Mexican Antitrust Commission
    announced an investigation into possible antitrust practices in
    the provision of rail cargo services. The targets of that
    investigation have not been identified, and while KCSM may be
    required to provide information in connection with the
    investigation, the Company does not believe KCSM’s
    operations are the subject of the inquiry, although there can be
    no assurance KCSM is not or would not become a subject of the
    inquiry.


 


    Rate reductions by competitors could make KCS’ freight
    services less competitive, and KCS cannot assure that it would
    always be able to match these rate reductions. In recent years,
    KCS has experienced aggressive price competition from Ferromex
    in freight rates for agricultural products, which has adversely
    affected results of operations. KCS’ ability to respond to
    competitive pressures by decreasing rates without adversely
    affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on,
    among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs.
    KCS’ failure to respond to competitive pressures, and
    particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    condition.


 


    In recent years, there has also been significant consolidation
    among major North American rail carriers. The resulting merged
    railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to
    block other railroads’ access to efficient gateways and
    routing options that are currently and have been historically
    available. There can be no assurance that further consolidation
    in the railroad industry, whether in the United States or
    Mexico, will not have an adverse effect on operations.


 



    KCS’
    business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on
    agreements with other railroads and third parties.


 


    Operation of KCS’ integrated rail network and its plans for
    growth and expansion rely significantly on agreements with other
    railroads and third parties, including joint ventures and other
    strategic alliances. KCS’ operations are dependent on
    interchange, trackage rights, haulage rights and marketing
    agreements with other railroads and third parties that enable
    KCS to exchange traffic and utilize trackage the Company does
    not own. KCS’ ability to provide comprehensive rail service
    to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to
    maintain these agreements with other railroads and third
    parties. The termination of, or the failure to renew, these
    agreements could adversely affect KCS’ business, financial
    condition and results of operations. KCS is also dependent in
    part upon the financial health and efficient performance of
    other railroads. For example, traffic moves over the UP’s
    lines via trackage rights, a significant portion of KCSR’s
    grain shipments originate with another rail carrier pursuant to
    marketing agreements with that carrier, and BNSF is KCS’
    largest partner in the interchange of rail traffic. There can be
    no assurance that KCS will not be materially adversely affected
    by operational or financial difficulties of other railroads.


 


    Pursuant to the Concession, KCSM is required to grant rights to
    use portions of its tracks to Ferromex, Ferrosur and FTVM.
    Applicable law stipulates that Ferromex, Ferrosur and FTVM are
    required to grant to KCSM rights to use portions of their
    tracks. KCSM’s Concession classifies trackage rights as
    short trackage



    
    10



Table of Contents




    rights and long-distance trackage rights. Although all of these
    trackage rights have been granted under the Concession, no
    railroad has actually operated under the long-distance trackage
    rights because the means of setting rates for usage and often
    related terms of usage have not been agreed upon. Under the
    Mexican railroad services law and regulations, the rates KCSM
    may charge for the right to use its tracks must be agreed upon
    in writing between KCSM and the party to which those rights are
    granted. However, if KCSM cannot reach an agreement on rates
    with rail carriers entitled to trackage rights on KCSM’s
    rail lines, the SCT is entitled to set the rates in accordance
    with Mexican law and regulation, which rates may not adequately
    compensate KCSM. KCSM and Ferromex have not been able to agree
    upon the rates each of them is required to pay the other for
    interline services and haulage and trackage rights. KCSM and
    Ferromex are involved in civil, commercial and administrative
    proceedings in connection with amounts payable to each other for
    interline services, haulage and trackage rights. On
    March 13, 2002, the SCT issued a ruling setting the rates
    for trackage and haulage rights. On August 5, 2002, the SCT
    issued a ruling setting the rates for interline and terminal
    services. KCSM and Ferromex appealed both rulings to the Mexican
    Supreme Court. KCSM and Ferromex also requested and obtained a
    suspension of the effectiveness of the SCT rulings pending
    resolution of the litigation. In February 2006, the Mexican
    Supreme Court sustained KCSM’s appeal of the SCT’s
    trackage and haulage rights ruling, vacated the SCT ruling and
    ordered the SCT to issue a new ruling consistent with the
    Court’s opinion. The Company has not yet received the
    written opinion of the Mexican Supreme Court on the February
    2006 ruling, nor has the Court decided the interline and
    terminal services appeal. On October 2, 2006, KCSM was
    served with a claim by Ferromex asking for information
    concerning the interline traffic between KCSM and Ferromex from
    January 1, 2002, to December 31, 2004. KCSM has filed
    an answer to this claim. KCS cannot predict the ultimate outcome
    of these matters, or whether the rates KCSM is ultimately
    permitted to charge will be sufficient to adequately compensate
    it for the use of its tracks by Ferromex.


 



    The
    Company is highly leveraged and has significant debt service
    obligations. KCS’ leverage could adversely affect its
    ability to fulfill obligations under various debt instruments
    and operate its business.


 


    KCS’ level of debt could make it more difficult for it to
    borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money
    available to finance operations and other business activities,
    exposes the Company to the risk of increased interest rates,
    makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and
    adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in
    planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic
    conditions. KCS’ failure to comply with the financial and
    other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which,
    among other things, require KCS to maintain specified financial
    ratios and limit the ability to incur debt and sell assets,
    could result in an event of default that, if not cured or
    waived, could have a material adverse effect on business or
    prospects. If the Company does not have enough cash to service
    its debt, meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs,
    KCS may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying
    capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or
    refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking
    additional equity capital. KCS cannot assure that any of these
    remedies, including obtaining appropriate waivers from its
    lenders, can be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at
    all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt
    agreements may restrict the Company from adopting any of these
    alternatives.


 


    The indebtedness of KCSM exposes it to risks of exchange rate
    fluctuations, because any devaluation of the peso would cause
    the cost of KCSM’s dollar-denominated debt to increase, and
    could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage in Mexico
    compared to Mexican competitors that have less debt and greater
    operating and financing flexibility than KCSM does.


 



    KCS’
    business is capital intensive.


 


    The Company’s business is capital intensive and requires
    substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things,
    additions and improvements to roadway, structures and
    technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of
    equipment and rail system. KCS’ failure to make necessary
    capital expenditures to maintain its operations could impair its
    ability to serve existing customers or accommodate increases in
    traffic volumes.



    
    11



Table of Contents



 


    KCS has funded, and expects to continue to fund, capital
    expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, leases and,
    to a lesser extent, vendor financing. KCS may not be able to
    generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain
    sufficient funds from external sources to fund capital
    expenditure requirements. If financing is available, it may not
    be obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations
    contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to
    KCS’ debt.


 


    KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican government requires KCSM
    to make investments and undertake capital projects. If KCSM is
    unable to make such capital investments, KCSM’s business
    plan commitments with the Mexican government may be at risk,
    requiring KCSM to seek waivers of its business plan. There is no
    assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by
    the SCT. KCSM may defer capital expenditures under its business
    plan with the permission of the SCT. However, the SCT might not
    grant this permission, and any failure by KCSM to comply with
    the capital investment commitments in its business plan could
    result in sanctions imposed by the SCT. The Company cannot
    assure that the Mexican government would grant any such
    permission or waiver. If such permission or waiver is not
    obtained in any instance and KCSM is sanctioned, its Concession
    might be at risk of revocation, which would adversely affect
    KCS’ financial condition and results of operations. See
    “KCSM’s Mexican Concession is subject to revocation or
    termination in certain circumstances” below.


 



    KCS’
    business may be adversely affected by changes in general
    economic, weather or other conditions.


 


    KCS’ operations may be adversely affected by changes in the
    economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that
    produce and consume the freight that KCS transports. The
    relative strength or weakness of the United States and Mexican
    economies affect the businesses served by KCS. PCRC and Panarail
    are directly affected by the Panamanian local economy and
    trans-Pacific trade flows. KCS’ investments in Mexico and
    Panama expose the Company to risks associated with operating in
    Mexico and Panama, including, among others, cultural
    differences, varying labor and operating practices, political
    risk and differences between the United States, Mexican and
    Panamanian economies. Historically, a stronger economy has
    resulted in improved results for KCS’ rail transportation
    operations. Conversely, when the economy has slowed, results
    have been less favorable. KCS’ revenues may be affected by
    prevailing economic conditions and, if an economic slowdown or
    recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail shipments is
    likely to be reduced.


 


    The Company’s operations may also be affected by natural
    disasters or adverse weather conditions. The Company operates in
    and along the Gulf Coast of the United States, and its
    facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes and other
    extreme weather conditions. For example, hurricanes have
    adversely affected some of the Company’s shippers located
    along the Gulf Coast and caused interruptions in the flow of
    traffic within the southern United States and between the United
    States and Mexico. As another example, a weak harvest in the
    Midwest may substantially reduce the volume of business handled
    for agricultural products customers. Many of the goods and
    commodities transported experience cyclical demand. KCS’
    results of operations can be expected to reflect this cyclical
    demand because of the significant fixed costs inherent in
    railroad operations. Significant reductions in the volume of
    rail shipments due to economic, weather or other conditions
    could have a material adverse effect on KCS’ business,
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    The transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally
    tracking the cycles of the world economy. Although
    transportation markets are affected by general economic
    conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each
    particular market segment that may influence operating results.
    Some of KCS’ customers do business in industries that are
    highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing
    and agricultural industries. Any downturn in these industries
    could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Also,
    some of the products transported have had a historical pattern
    of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the
    general economic environment and by industry capacity and
    demand. For example, global steel and petrochemical prices have
    decreased in the past. KCS cannot assure that prices and demand
    for these products will not decline in the future, adversely
    affecting those industries and, in turn, the Company’s
    financial condition or results.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 



    KCS’
    business is subject to regulation by international, federal,
    state and local regulatory agencies. KCS’ failure to comply
    with these regulations could have a material adverse effect on
    its operations.


 


    KCS is subject to governmental regulation by international,
    federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its
    railroad operations, as well as a variety of health, safety,
    labor, environmental, and other matters. Government regulation
    of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the
    competitiveness and profitability of railroads. KCS’
    failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could
    have a material adverse effect on operations, including
    limitations on operating activities until compliance with
    applicable requirements is achieved. These government agencies
    may change the legislative or regulatory framework within which
    the Company operates without providing any recourse for any
    adverse effects on its business that occur as a result of such
    change. Additionally, some of the regulations require KCS to
    obtain and maintain various licenses, permits and other
    authorizations, and KCS cannot assure that it will continue to
    be able to do so.


 



    The
    Company’s business is subject to environmental, health and
    safety laws and regulations that could require KCS to incur
    material costs or liabilities relating to environmental, health
    or safety compliance or remediation.


 


    KCS’ operations are subject to extensive international,
    federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws
    and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the
    air, discharges to waters, the handling, storage, transportation
    and disposal of waste and other materials, the cleanup of
    hazardous material or petroleum releases, decommissioning of
    underground storage tanks and noise pollution. Violations of
    these laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties,
    permit revocations, facility shutdowns and other civil and
    criminal sanctions. From time to time, certain of KCS’
    facilities have not been in compliance with environmental,
    health and safety laws and regulations and there can be no
    assurances that KCS will always be in compliance with such laws
    and regulations in the future. The Company incurs, and expects
    to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs, including,
    in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance with
    requirements governing chemical and hazardous material shipping
    operations, refueling operations and repair facilities. New laws
    and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements,
    new spills, releases or violations or the discovery of
    previously unknown contamination could require KCS to incur
    costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that
    could have a material adverse effect on KCS’ business,
    results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.


 


    In the operation of a railroad, it is possible that derailments,
    explosions or other accidents may occur that could cause harm to
    the environment or to human life or health. As a result, KCS may
    incur costs in the future, which may be material, to address any
    such harm, including costs relating to the performance of
    clean-ups,
    natural resources damages and compensatory or punitive damages
    relating to harm to property or individuals.


 


    The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
    and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”)
    and similar state laws (known as “Superfund laws”)
    impose liability for the cost of remedial or removal actions,
    natural resources damages and related costs at certain sites
    identified as posing a threat to the environment or public
    health. CERCLA imposes joint, strict and several liability on
    the owners and operators of facilities in which hazardous waste
    and other hazardous substances are deposited or from which they
    are released or are likely to be released into the environment.
    Liability may be imposed, without regard to fault or the
    legality of the activity, on certain classes of persons,
    including the current and certain prior owners or operators of a
    site where hazardous substances have been released and persons
    that arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous
    substances. In addition, other potentially responsible parties,
    adjacent landowners or other third parties may initiate cost
    recovery actions or toxic tort litigation against sites subject
    to CERCLA or similar state laws. Given the nature of its
    business, KCS presently has environmental investigation and
    remediation obligations at certain sites, including a former
    foundry site in Alexandria, Louisiana, and will likely incur
    such obligations at additional sites in the future. Liabilities
    accrued for environmental costs represent the Company’s
    best estimate of the probable future obligation for the
    remediation and settlement of these sites. Although the recorded
    liability includes the best estimate of all probable costs,
    clean-up
    costs can not be predicted with any certainty due to various
    factors such as evolving environmental laws and regulations,



    
    13



Table of Contents




    changes in technology, the extent of other parties’
    participation, developments in environmental surveys and
    studies, and the extent of corrective action that may ultimately
    be required.


 


    The Mexican operations are subject to Mexican federal and state
    laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
    environment. The primary environmental law in Mexico is the
    General Law of Ecological Balance and Environmental
    Protection (the “Ecological Law”). The Mexican
    federal agency in charge of overseeing compliance with and
    enforcement of the federal environmental law is the Ministry of
    Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
    (“Semarnat”). The regulations issued under the
    Ecological Law and technical environmental requirements issued
    by Semarnat have promulgated standards for, among other things,
    water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise pollution,
    hazardous substances and transportation and handling of
    hazardous and solid waste. As part of its enforcement powers,
    Semarnat is empowered to bring administrative and criminal
    proceedings and impose economic sanctions against companies that
    violate environmental laws, and temporarily or even permanently
    close non-complying facilities. KCSM is also subject to the laws
    of various jurisdictions and international conferences with
    respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and
    to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments
    of each of the Mexican states in which KCSM’s facilities
    are located. The terms of KCSM’s Concession from the
    Mexican government also impose environmental compliance
    obligations on KCSM. The Company cannot predict the effect, if
    any, that the adoption of additional or more stringent
    environmental laws and regulations would have on KCSM’s
    results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.


 



    KCS’
    business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in
    fuel supplies. Any significant increase in the cost of fuel, or
    severe disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material
    adverse effect on KCS’ business, results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    KCS incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and
    these costs represent a significant portion of its
    transportation expenses. Significant price increases for fuel
    may have a material adverse effect on operating results. Fuel
    expense increased from 16% of consolidated operating costs
    during 2005 to 19% of consolidated operating costs during 2006.
    KCS has been able to pass the majority of these fuel cost
    increases on to customers in the form of fuel surcharges applied
    to customer billings. If KCS is unable to continue the existing
    fuel surcharge program for KCSR and expand the fuel surcharge
    program for KCSM, operating results could be materially
    adversely affected.


 


    On January 26, 2007, the Surface Transportation Board (the
    “STB”) issued a decision finding that the assessment
    by railroads of fuel surcharges that are based on a percentage
    of the base rate charged is an unreasonable practice. Railroads
    have 90 days following January 26 to comply with the
    decision. KCS is in the process of reviewing the manner by which
    it assesses fuel surcharges in order to timely comply with the
    decision. KCS cannot predict with certainty the impact that any
    changes to its fuel surcharge program may have on its business.


 


    Fuel costs are affected by traffic levels, efficiency of
    operations and equipment, and petroleum market conditions. The
    supply and cost of fuel are subject to market conditions and are
    influenced by numerous factors beyond the Company’s
    control, including general economic conditions, world markets,
    government programs and regulations and competition. In
    addition, instability in the Middle East and interruptions in
    domestic production and refining due to hurricane damage may
    result in an increase in fuel prices. Fuel prices and supplies
    could also be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or
    by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing
    regulations. In the event of a severe disruption of fuel
    supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a
    disruption of oil imports, weather events, war or otherwise, the
    resulting impact on fuel prices could materially adversely
    affect KCS’ operating results, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    KCS currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel
    requirements for its Mexican operations almost exclusively
    through purchases at market prices from Petroleos Mexicanos, the
    national oil company of Mexico (“PEMEX”), a
    government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the
    distribution and sale of diesel fuel in Mexico. KCSM is party to
    a fuel supply contract with PEMEX of indefinite duration. Either
    party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written
    notice to the other at any time. If the fuel contract is
    terminated



    
    14



Table of Contents




    and KCSM is unable to acquire diesel fuel from alternate sources
    on acceptable terms, the Mexican operations could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    The
    loss of key personnel could negatively affect
    business.


 


    KCS’ success substantially depends on its ability to
    attract and retain key members of the senior management team and
    the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. Recruiting,
    motivating and retaining qualified management personnel,
    particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are
    vital to operations and success. There is substantial
    competition for qualified management personnel and there can be
    no assurance that KCS will always be able to attract or retain
    qualified personnel. Employment agreements with senior
    management are terminable at any time by either party. If KCS
    loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its
    ability to successfully implement its business plans and the
    value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected.


 



    A
    majority of KCS’ employees belong to labor unions. Strikes
    or work stoppages could adversely affect
    operations.


 


    The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with
    various labor unions in the United States and Mexico. As of
    December 31, 2006, approximately 81% of KCSR employees and
    approximately 75% of KCSM employees were covered by collective
    labor contracts. The Company may be subject to, among other
    things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a result of
    disputes under these collective bargaining agreements and labor
    contracts or KCS’ potential inability to negotiate
    acceptable contracts with these unions. In the United States,
    because such agreements are generally negotiated on an
    industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions
    of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond
    KCS’ control. KCS may, therefore, be subject to terms and
    conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a
    material adverse affect on its results of operations, financial
    position and cash flows. If the unionized workers in the United
    States or Mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or
    other slowdown, if other employees were to become unionized, or
    if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were
    renegotiated, KCS could experience a significant disruption of
    its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Although the
    U.S. Railway Labor Act imposes restrictions on the right of
    United States railway workers to strike, there is no law in
    Mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway
    workers in that country to strike.


 



    KCS
    faces possible catastrophic loss and liability, and its
    insurance may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages
    to others.


 


    The operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk
    of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision and property loss.
    In the course of KCS’ operations, spills or other
    environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business
    interruption due to political developments, as well as labor
    disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result
    in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs.
    Collisions, environmental mishaps or other accidents can cause
    serious bodily injury, death and extensive property damage,
    particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated
    areas. Additionally, KCS’ operations may be affected from
    time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes,
    volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. The occurrence of
    a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ operations and financial condition. The Company
    maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice
    against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of
    its business and business interruption due to natural disaster.
    However, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on
    coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against.
    This insurance may not be sufficient to cover KCS’ damages
    or damages to others, and this insurance may not continue to be
    available at commercially reasonable rates. Even with insurance,
    if any catastrophic interruption of service occurs, KCS may not
    be able to restore service without a significant interruption to
    operations and an adverse effect on KCS’ financial
    condition.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 



    KCS’
    business may be affected by future acts of terrorism or
    war.


 


    Terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the Company’s
    chemical transportation activities, any government response
    thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect KCS’
    results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.
    These acts may also impact the Company’s ability to raise
    capital or its future business opportunities.
    KCS’ rail lines and facilities could be direct targets
    or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which could cause
    significant business interruption and result in increased costs
    and liabilities and decreased revenues. These acts could have a
    material adverse effect on KCS’ results of operations,
    financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, insurance
    premiums charged for some or all of the terrorism coverage
    currently maintained by KCS could increase dramatically or
    certain coverage may not be available in the future.


 



    KCSM’s
    Mexican Concession is subject to revocation or termination in
    certain circumstances.


 


    KCSM operates under a
    50-year
    Concession granted by the Mexican government. The Concession
    gives KCSM exclusive rights to provide freight transportation
    services over its rail lines for 30 years of the
    50-year
    Concession, subject to certain trackage rights. The SCT is
    principally responsible for regulating railroad services in
    Mexico. The SCT has broad powers to monitor KCSM’s
    compliance with the Concession and it can require KCSM to supply
    it with any technical, administrative and financial information
    it requests. KCSM must comply with the investment commitments
    established in its business plan, which forms an integral part
    of the Concession, and must update the plan every five years.
    The SCT treats KCSM’s business plans confidentially. The
    SCT monitors KCSM’s compliance with efficiency and safety
    standards established in the Concession. The SCT reviews, and
    may amend, these standards every five years.


 


    The Mexican railroad services law and regulations provide the
    Mexican government certain rights in its relationship with KCSM
    under the Concession, including the right to take over the
    management of KCSM and its railroad in certain extraordinary
    cases, such as imminent danger to national security. In the
    past, the Mexican government has used such power with respect to
    other privatized industries, including the telecommunications
    industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. In
    addition, under the Concession and the Mexican railroad services
    law and regulations, the SCT, in consultation with the
    Mexican Antitrust Commission, reserves the right to set
    tariffs if it determines that effective competition does not
    exist. The Mexican Antitrust Commission, however, has not
    published guidelines regarding the factors that constitute a
    lack of competition. It is therefore unclear under what
    particular circumstances the Mexican Antitrust Commission would
    deem a lack of competition to exist. If the SCT intervenes and
    sets tariffs, the rates it sets may be too low to allow KCSM to
    operate profitably.


 


    The Concession is renewable for up to 50 years, subject to
    certain conditions. The SCT may terminate the Concession if,
    among other things, there is an unjustified interruption in the
    operation of KCSM’s rail lines, KCSM charges tariffs higher
    than the tariffs it has registered with the SCT, KCSM restricts
    the ability of other Mexican rail operators to use its rail
    lines, KCSM fails to make payments for damages caused during the
    performance of services, KCSM fails to comply with any term or
    condition of the Mexican railroad services law and regulations,
    KCSM fails to make the capital investments required under its
    five-year business plan filed with the SCT, or KCSM fails to
    maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage
    as specified in the Mexican railroad services law and
    regulations. In addition, the Concession would revoke
    automatically if KCSM changes its nationality or assigns or
    creates any lien on the Concession without the SCT’s
    approval. The SCT may also terminate the Concession as a result
    of KCSM’s surrender of its rights under the Concession, or
    for reasons of public interest, by revocation or upon
    KCSM’s liquidation or bankruptcy. Revocation or termination
    of the Concession would prevent KCSM from operating its railroad
    and would materially adversely affect the Mexican operations and
    the ability to make payments on KCSM’s debt. If the
    Concession is revoked by the SCT, KCSM would receive no revenue,
    and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures
    covered by the Concession, as well as all improvements made by
    it, would revert to the Mexican government.


 


    In April 2006, the SCT initiated sanction proceedings against
    KCSM, claiming that KCSM had failed to make the minimum capital
    investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year
    business plan filed with the SCT. Although the Company believes
    KCSM made capital expenditures exceeding the amounts



    
    16



Table of Contents




    projected in its business plan for 2004 and 2005, the SCT has
    objected to the nature of the investments made by KCSM. KCSM has
    responded to the SCT by providing evidence in support of its
    investments and explaining why it believes sanctions are not
    appropriate. The SCT has not yet responded to KCSM’s
    arguments. KCSM will have the right to challenge a negative
    ruling by the SCT before the Administrative Federal Court, and,
    if necessary, the right to challenge any negative ruling by the
    Administrative Federal Court before a Federal Magistrate’s
    Tribunal. However, if these proceedings are determined adversely
    to KCSM and sanctions are imposed, KCSM could be subject to
    fines, and could be subject to possible future revocation of the
    Concession if the SCT imposes sanctions on three additional
    occasions over the remaining term of the Concession.


 


    Under the Concession, KCSM has the right to operate its rail
    lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated
    structures. If the Mexican government legally terminates the
    Concession, it would own, control and manage such public domain
    assets used in the operation of KCSM’s rail lines. The
    Mexican government may also temporarily seize control of
    KCSM’s rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural
    disaster, war, significant public disturbances or imminent
    danger to the domestic peace or economy. In such a case, the SCT
    may restrict KCSM’s ability to exploit the Concession in
    such manner as the SCT deems necessary under the circumstances,
    but only for the duration of any of the foregoing events.


 


    Mexican law requires that the Mexican government pay
    compensation if it effects a statutory appropriation for reasons
    of the public interest. With respect to a temporary seizure due
    to any cause other than international war, the Mexican railroad
    services law and regulations provide that the Mexican government
    will indemnify an affected Concessionaire for an amount equal to
    damages caused and losses suffered. However, these payments may
    not be sufficient to compensate KCSM for its losses and may not
    be timely made.


 



    The
    Company’s ownership of KCSM and operations in Mexico
    subject it to economic and political risks.


 


    The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise,
    significant influence over the Mexican economy.
    Accordingly, Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy
    and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on
    Mexican private sector entities in general and on the
    Mexican operations in particular. The national elections
    held on July 2, 2000, ended 71 years of rule by the
    Institutional Revolutionary Party and resulted in the increased
    representation of opposition parties in the Mexican Congress and
    in mayoral and gubernatorial positions. National elections were
    again held on July 2, 2006, which were disputed by the
    losing presidential candidate and his supporters. Although there
    have not yet been any material adverse repercussions resulting
    from this political change, multiparty rule is still relatively
    new in Mexico and could result in economic or political
    conditions that could materially and adversely affect the
    Mexican operations. KCS cannot predict the impact that this new
    political landscape will have on the Mexican economy.
    Furthermore, KCSM’s financial condition, results of
    operations and prospects may be affected by currency
    fluctuations, inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation,
    social instability and other political, social and economic
    developments in or affecting Mexico.


 


    Mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain
    regional political and social tension, and reforms regarding
    fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security and
    oil have not been and may not be approved. The social and
    political situation in Mexico could adversely affect the Mexican
    economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ business, financial condition and results of operation.


 


    The Mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment
    deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. There are
    currently no exchange controls in Mexico. However, Mexico has
    imposed foreign exchange controls in the past. Pursuant to the
    provisions of NAFTA, if Mexico experiences serious balance of
    payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the
    future, Mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange
    controls on investments made in Mexico, including those made by
    United States and Canadian investors. Any restrictive exchange
    control policy could adversely affect KCS’ ability to
    obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of
    making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to
    the extent KCS may have to effect those conversions, and could
    adversely affect the Mexican economy or the Company’s
    investment in KCSM. This could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ business and financial condition.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 


    Securities of companies in emerging market countries tend to be
    influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging
    market countries. Some emerging market countries, including
    Argentina and Brazil, have experienced significant economic
    downturns and market volatility in the past. These events have
    had an adverse effect on the economic conditions and securities
    markets of other emerging market countries, including Mexico.


 



    Downturns
    in the United States economy or in trade between the United
    States and Mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange
    rate would likely have adverse effects on KCS’ business and
    results of operations.


 


    The level and timing of KCS’ Mexican business activity is
    heavily dependent upon the level of United States-Mexican
    trade and the effects of NAFTA on such trade. The Mexican
    operations depend on the United States and Mexican markets for
    the products KCSM transports, the relative position of Mexico
    and the United States in these markets at any given time, and
    tariffs or other barriers to trade. Downturns in the
    United States or Mexican economy or in trade between the
    United States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on
    KCS’ business and results of operations. The Mexican
    operations depend on the United States and Mexican markets
    for the products KCSM transports, the relative position of
    Mexico and the United States in these markets at any given time,
    and tariffs or other barriers to trade. Any future downturn in
    the United States economy could have a material adverse effect
    on KCS’ results of operations and our ability to meet debt
    service obligations.


 


    Also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rate could lead
    to shifts in the types and volumes of Mexican imports and
    exports. Although a decrease in the level of exports of some of
    the commodities that KCSM transports to the United States may be
    offset by a subsequent increase in imports of other commodities
    KCSM hauls into Mexico and vice versa, any offsetting increase
    might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. Future
    developments in United States-Mexican trade beyond the
    Company’s control may result in a reduction of freight
    volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and
    commodities KCSM carries.


 


    Any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of
    KCSM’s dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely
    affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness.
    Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in
    disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may
    limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into
    U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of
    interest and principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness.
    Although the Mexican government currently does not restrict, and
    for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of
    Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into
    U.S. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of
    Mexico, the Mexican government could, as in the past, institute
    restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability
    to transfer or convert pesos into U.S. dollars or other
    currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the
    U.S. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments.
    Devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the
    U.S. dollar may also adversely affect U.S. dollar
    prices for KCS’ securities. Currency fluctuations are
    likely to continue to have an effect on KCS’ financial
    condition in future periods.


 



    KCSM
    has identified possible discrepancies in data provided by its
    prior information system.


 


    KCSM installed a new operational information system in 2006.
    Based on testing of the data provided by this system, including
    a comparison of such data to data provided by KCSM’s prior
    information system, it is possible that the data provided by
    KCSM’s prior information system may have contained
    discrepancies. There is uncertainty as to what effect, if any,
    these discrepancies could have on KCSM’s financial
    condition or results of operations, however there can be no
    assurance that the effect will not be material.


 



    Mexico
    may experience high levels of inflation in the future which
    could adversely affect KCS’ results of
    operations.


 


    Mexico has a history of high levels of inflation, and may
    experience high inflation in the future. During most of the
    1980s and during the mid- and
    late-1990s,
    Mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. The
    annual rates of inflation for the last five years, as measured
    by changes in the National Consumer Price



    
    18



Table of Contents




    Index, as provided by Banco de Mexico, were 4.0% in 2006, 3.3%
    in 2005, 5.2% in 2004, 4.0% in 2003 and 5.7% in 2002. A
    substantial increase in the Mexican inflation rate would have
    the effect of increasing some of KCSM’s costs, which could
    adversely affect its results of operations and financial
    condition. High levels of inflation may also affect the balance
    of trade between Mexico and the United States, and other
    countries, which could adversely affect KCSM’s results of
    operations.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B