Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Risks
    Related to an Investment in KCS’ Common Stock


 



    The
    price of KCS’ common stock may fluctuate significantly,
    which may make it difficult for investors to resell common stock
    when they want to or at prices they find
    attractive.


 


    The price of KCS’ common stock on the New York Stock
    Exchange (“NYSE”), listed under the ticker symbol
    “KSU”, constantly changes. The Company expects that
    the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate.


 


    The Company’s stock price can fluctuate as a result of a
    variety of factors, many of which are beyond KCS’ control.
    These factors include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    quarterly variations in operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating results that vary from the expectations of management,
    securities analysts, ratings agencies and investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in expectations as to future financial performance,
    including financial estimates by securities analysts, ratings
    agencies and investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments generally affecting the railroad industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements by KCS or its competitors of significant
    contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint
    ventures or capital commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    the assertion or resolution of significant claims or proceedings
    against KCS;




 



     
        • 

    
    KCS’ dividend policy and restrictions on the payment of
    dividends;




 



     
        • 

    
    future sales of KCS’ equity or equity-linked securities;




 



     
        • 

    
    the issuance of common stock in payment of dividends on
    preferred stock or upon conversion of preferred stock; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general domestic and international economic conditions including
    the availability of short- and long-term financing.





 


    In addition, from time to time the stock market in general has
    experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to
    the operating performance of a particular company. These broad
    market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of
    KCS’ common stock.


 



    KCS’
    ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock is currently
    restricted, and KCS does not anticipate paying cash dividends on
    its common stock in the foreseeable future.


 


    KCS has agreed, and may agree in the future, to restrictions on
    its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock. In
    addition, to maintain its credit ratings, the Company may be
    limited in its ability to pay cash dividends on its common stock
    so that it can maintain an appropriate level of debt. During the
    first quarter of 2000, the Board of Directors suspended common
    stock dividends. KCS does not anticipate making any cash
    dividend payments to its common stockholders in the foreseeable
    future.


 



    Holders
    of the Series D Preferred Stock may have special voting
    rights if KCS fails to pay dividends on that preferred stock
    over a stated number of quarters.


 


    If dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock are in arrears
    for six consecutive quarters (or an equivalent number of days in
    the aggregate, whether or not consecutive), holders of the
    Series D Preferred Stock will be entitled to elect two of
    the authorized number of directors at the next annual
    stockholders’ meeting at which directors are elected and at
    each subsequent stockholders’ meeting until such time as
    all accumulated dividends are paid on the Series D
    Preferred Stock or set aside for payment. In addition, so long
    as dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock remain unpaid
    and for a period thereafter, KCS will not be eligible to
    register



    
    9



Table of Contents




    future offerings of securities on
    Form S-3
    or to avail itself of the other benefits available to companies
    that qualify as “well-known seasoned issuers” under
    SEC rules, which could adversely affect KCS’ ability to
    access capital markets and increase the cost of accessing
    capital markets.


 



    Sales
    of substantial amounts of KCS’ common stock in the public
    market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the
    common stock.


 


    As of December 31, 2008, there were 9,306,390 shares
    of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under the 1991
    Amended and Restated Stock Option and Performance Award Plan,
    the 2008 Stock Option and Performance Award Plan and the
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 2,076,919 shares of common
    stock held by executive officers and directors outside those
    plans, and 6,999,826 shares of common stock reserved for
    issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of
    convertible preferred stock. Sales of common stock by employees
    upon exercise of their options, sales by executive officers and
    directors subject to compliance with Rule 144 under the
    Securities Act, and sales of common stock that may be issued
    upon conversion of the outstanding preferred stock, or the
    perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the
    market price of KCS’ common stock.


 



    KCS
    has provisions in its charter, bylaws and Rights Agreement that
    could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a
    controlling interest in KCS and that could deprive an investor
    of an opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of
    KCS’ common stock.


 


    KCS has provisions in its charter and bylaws that may delay or
    prevent unsolicited takeover bids from third parties, including
    provisions providing for a classified board and supermajority
    stockholder approval requirements in order to increase the size
    of the board of directors, abolish cumulative voting, abolish
    the classification of the Board, or effect certain merger,
    consolidation or sale transactions. The bylaws provide that a
    stockholder must give the Company advance written notice of its
    intent to nominate a director or raise a matter at an annual
    meeting. In addition, the Company has adopted a Rights Agreement
    which under certain circumstances would significantly impair the
    ability of third parties to acquire control of KCS without prior
    approval of the Board of Directors. These provisions may deprive
    KCS’ stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at
    a premium over prevailing market prices.


 



    The
    failure of a bank to fund a request (or any portion of such
    request) by KCS to borrow money under one of its existing
    revolving credit facilities could reduce KCS’ ability to
    fund capital expenditures or otherwise properly fund its
    operations.


 


    The Company’s subsidiaries have existing revolving credit
    facilities with several banking institutions. If any of the
    banking institutions that are a party to such credit facilities
    fails to fund a request (or any portion of such request) by any
    such subsidiary to borrow money under one of these existing
    credit facilities, KCS’ ability to fund capital
    expenditures, fund its operations and pay debt service could be
    reduced, each of which could result in a decline in the value of
    a stockholder’s investment in the Company.


 



    The
    failure of any bank in which the Company deposits funds could
    reduce the amount of cash the Company has available to pay
    distributions and make additional investments.


 


    Given the recent developments in the subprime mortgage and other
    financial markets, financial institutions have additional
    capital risks. The Company has diversified cash and cash
    equivalents among several banking institutions in an attempt to
    minimize exposure to any one of these entities. However, the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or “FDIC,” only
    insures amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank.
    KCS currently has cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash
    deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of
    federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in
    which KCS has deposited funds ultimately fails, the Company may
    lose its deposits to the extent they are in excess of $250,000.
    The loss of the Company’s deposits could reduce the amount
    of cash the Company has available to distribute or invest and
    could result in a decline in the value of each
    stockholder’s investment in the Company.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Risks
    Related to KCS’ Business


 



    KCS
    competes against other railroads and other transportation
    providers.


 


    The Company’s domestic and international operations are
    subject to competition from other railroads, particularly the
    Union Pacific Railroad Company (“UP”) and BNSF Railway
    Company (“BNSF”) in the United States and Ferromex in
    Mexico, as well as from truck carriers and from barge lines and
    other maritime shippers. Many of KCS’ rail competitors are
    much larger and have significantly greater financial and other
    resources than KCS, which may enable rail competitors to reduce
    rates and make KCS’ freight services less competitive.
    KCS’ ability to respond to competitive pressures by
    matching rate reductions and decreasing rates without adversely
    affecting gross margins and operating results will depend on,
    among other things, the ability to reduce operating costs.
    KCS’ failure to respond to competitive pressures, and
    particularly rate competition, in a timely manner could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operation and financial condition.


 


    In recent years, there has also been significant consolidation
    among major North American rail carriers. The resulting merged
    railroads could attempt to use their size and pricing power to
    block other railroads’ access to efficient gateways and
    routing options that are currently and have been historically
    available. There can be no assurance that further consolidation
    in the railroad industry, whether in the United States or
    Mexico, will not have an adverse effect on operations.


 


    Trucking, maritime, and barge competitors, while able to provide
    rate and service competition to the railroad industry, are able
    to use public rights-of-way, require substantially smaller
    capital investment and maintenance expenditures than railroads
    and allow for more frequent and flexible scheduling. Continuing
    competitive pressures, any reduction in margins due to
    competitive pressures, future improvements that increase the
    quality of alternative modes of transportation in the locations
    in which the Company operates, or legislation or regulations
    that provide motor carriers with additional advantages, such as
    increased size of vehicles and reduced weight restrictions,
    could result in downward pressure on freight rates, which in
    turn could have a material adverse effect on results of
    operations, financial condition and liquidity.


 


    A central part of KCS’ growth strategy is based upon the
    conversion of truck traffic to rail. There can be no assurance
    the Company will have the ability to convert traffic from truck
    to rail transport or that the customers already converted will
    be retained. If the railroad industry in general, and the
    Mexican operations in particular, are unable to preserve their
    competitive advantages vis-à-vis the trucking industry,
    projected revenue growth from the Mexican operations could be
    adversely affected. Additionally, the revenue growth
    attributable to the Mexican operations could be affected by,
    among other factors, an expansion in the availability, or an
    improvement in the quality, of the trucking services offered by
    Mexican carriers resulting from regulatory and administrative
    interpretations and implementation of certain provisions of the
    North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”), and
    KCS’ inability to grow its existing customer base and
    capture additional cargo transport market share because of
    competition from the shipping industry and other railroads.


 


    The Company’s Mexican operations are subject to competition
    from, among others, Ferromex and Ferrosur. Through KCSM’s
    Concession from the Mexican government, KCSM is required to
    grant certain trackage rights to these railroads, the exercise
    of which results in the loss to KCSM of the capacity of using a
    portion of its tracks at all times, and allows the
    Company’s competitors to compete with KCSM over its rails
    lines for traffic between Mexico City and the United States, as
    well as gain more efficient access to certain Mexico City
    industries. In particular, the rail lines operated by Ferromex
    are in close proximity to KCSM’s operations, running from
    Guadalajara and Mexico City to four United States border
    crossings west of the Nuevo Laredo-Laredo crossing, and
    providing an alternative to KCSM’s routes for the transport
    of freight from those cities to the United States border.
    Ferromex additionally directly competes with KCSM in some areas
    of its service territory, including Tampico, Saltillo,
    Monterrey, and Mexico City. Ferrosur competes directly with KCSM
    for traffic to and from southeastern Mexico. Ferrosur, like
    KCSM, also services Mexico City and Puebla.


 


    In November 2005, Grupo México, the controlling shareholder
    of Ferromex, acquired all of the shares of Ferrosur. The merger
    between Ferromex and Ferrosur has been declared illegal by the
    Mexican Antitrust



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Commission, a ruling that has been challenged by both Ferromex
    and Ferrosur. On January 29, 2009 KCSM received notice
    of the Mexican Antitrust Commission’s decision holding that
    Ferromex and Ferrosur had engaged in monopolistic practices by
    combining their operations. Under Mexican law, Ferromex and
    Ferrosur have thirty business days to appeal this decision. If
    Ferromex and Ferrosur are successful in this appeal and are
    permitted to combine their operations, giving Grupo México
    control over a nationwide railway system in Mexico and ownership
    of 50% of the shares of FTVM, KCSM’s competitive position
    may be materially harmed.


 



    KCS’
    business strategy, operations and growth rely significantly on
    agreements with other railroads and third parties.


 


    Operation of KCS’ rail network and its plans for growth and
    expansion rely significantly on agreements with other railroads
    and third parties, including joint ventures and other strategic
    alliances, as well as interchange, trackage rights, haulage
    rights and marketing agreements with other railroads and third
    parties that enable KCS to exchange traffic and utilize trackage
    the Company does not own. KCS’ ability to provide
    comprehensive rail service to its customers depends in large
    part upon its ability to maintain these agreements with other
    railroads and third parties. The termination of, or the failure
    to renew, these agreements could adversely affect KCS’
    business, financial condition and results of operations. KCS is
    also dependent in part upon the financial health and efficient
    performance of other railroads. For example, some of KCSR’s
    traffic moves over the UP’s lines via trackage rights, a
    significant portion of KCSR’s grain shipments originate
    with another rail carrier pursuant to marketing agreements with
    that carrier, and the UP is KCS’ largest partner in the
    interchange of total rail traffic. There can be no assurance
    that KCS will not be materially adversely affected by
    operational or financial difficulties of other railroads.


 



    KCSM’s
    operations are subject to certain trackage rights, haulage
    rights and interline service agreements with other Mexican rail
    carriers, some of which are in dispute.


 


    Through KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican government, KCSM
    is required to grant short and long-distance trackage rights to
    Ferromex, Ferrosur, and FTVM. Applicable law stipulates that
    Ferromex, Ferrosur and FTVM similarly are required to grant to
    KCSM rights to use portions of their tracks. Although all of
    these trackage rights have been granted under the Concession, no
    railroad has actually operated under the long-distance trackage
    rights because the rates that may be charged for the right to
    use the tracks has not been agreed upon between KCSM and the
    parties to whom those rights are granted in accordance with the
    Mexican Railroad Services Law and applicable regulations. If
    KCSM cannot reach an agreement on rates with rail carriers
    entitled to trackage rights on KCSM’s rail lines, the SCT
    is entitled to set the rates in accordance with Mexican law and
    regulations, which rates may not adequately compensate KCSM.
    KCSM is currently involved in judicial, civil and commercial
    litigation and administrative proceedings with Ferromex
    regarding the rates payable to each other for trackage rights,
    interline services and haulage rights. Certain of these disputes
    continue under litigation, which KCSM expects to continue over
    the next few years. KCSM and Ferromex are also parties to
    various ongoing civil and administrative cases involving
    disputes over the application and proper interpretation of the
    mandatory trackage rights. Any resolution of such procedures
    adverse to KCSM could have a negative impact on its
    business and operations.


 



    KCS’
    debt capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total
    debt plus equity) is 52.2%. KCS’ leverage could adversely
    affect its ability to fulfill obligations under various debt
    instruments and operate its business.


 


    KCS’ level of debt could make it more difficult for it to
    borrow money in the future, may reduce the amount of money
    available to finance operations and other business activities,
    exposes the Company to the risk of increased interest rates,
    makes it more vulnerable to general economic downturns and
    adverse industry conditions, and could reduce flexibility in
    planning for, or responding to, changing business and economic
    conditions. KCS’ failure to comply with the financial and
    other restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, which,
    among other things, require KCS to maintain specified financial
    ratios and limit its ability to incur debt and sell assets,
    could result in an event of default that, if not cured or
    waived, could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business or prospects. If the Company does not
    have enough cash to service its debt,



    
    12



Table of Contents




    meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs, KCS may
    be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from
    lenders, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling
    assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing
    debt, or seeking additional equity capital. KCS cannot assure
    that any of these remedies can be effected on commercially
    reasonable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of existing
    or future debt agreements may restrict the Company from adopting
    some of these alternatives.


 


    The indebtedness of KCSM exposes it to risks of exchange rate
    fluctuations because any devaluation of the peso would cause the
    cost of KCSM’s dollar-denominated debt to increase and
    could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage in Mexico,
    compared to Mexican competitors that have less debt and greater
    operating and financial flexibility than KCSM does.


 



    The
    recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of
    borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, each of
    which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    results of operations and business.


 


    Recent events in the financial markets have had an adverse
    impact on the credit markets and, as a result, credit has become
    more expensive and difficult to obtain. Some lenders are
    imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit and
    there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit
    available in the markets in which KCS conducts business. The
    negative impact of tightening credit markets and the recent
    adverse changes in the credit markets generally may have a
    material adverse effect on KCS’ business and results of
    operations resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to
    finance capital expansion on favorable terms, if at all,
    increased financing costs or financial terms with increasingly
    restrictive covenants.


 



    KCS’
    business is capital intensive.


 


    The Company’s business is capital intensive and requires
    substantial ongoing expenditures for, among other things,
    additions and improvements to roadway, structures and
    technology, acquisitions, and maintenance and repair of
    equipment and the rail system. KCS’ failure to make
    necessary capital expenditures to maintain its operations could
    impair its ability to serve existing customers or accommodate
    increases in traffic volumes.


 


    KCS has funded, and expects to continue to fund capital
    expenditures with funds from operating cash flows, equipment
    leases, and debt financing. KCS may not be able to generate
    sufficient cash flows from its operations or obtain sufficient
    funds from external sources to fund capital expenditure
    requirements. Even if financing is available, it may not be
    obtainable on acceptable terms and within the limitations
    contained in the indentures and other agreements relating to
    KCS’ existing debt. In light of current economic
    conditions, KCS has taken measures to reduce planned capital
    spending and other expenditures in 2009, and may make further
    reductions to its 2009 capital spending plan to achieve positive
    free cash flow if economic conditions do not improve.


 


    KCSM’s Concession from the Mexican government requires KCSM
    to make investments and undertake capital projects. If KCSM
    fails to make such capital investments, KCSM’s business
    plan commitments with the Mexican government may be at risk,
    requiring KCSM to seek waivers of its business plan. There is no
    assurance that such waivers, if requested, would be granted by
    the SCT. KCSM may defer capital expenditures under its business
    plan with the permission of the SCT. However, the SCT might not
    grant this permission, and any failure by KCSM to comply with
    the capital investment commitments in its business plan could
    result in sanctions imposed by the SCT, and could result in
    revocation of the Concession if sanctions are imposed on five
    distinct occasions. The Company cannot assure that the Mexican
    government would grant any such permission or waiver. If such
    permission or waiver is not obtained in any instance and KCSM is
    sanctioned, its Concession might be at risk of revocation, which
    would materially adversely affect KCS’ financial condition
    and results of operations. See “KCSM’s Mexican
    Concession is subject to revocation or termination in certain
    circumstances” below.


 



    KCS’
    business may be adversely affected by changes in general
    economic, weather or other conditions.


 


    KCS’ operations may be adversely affected by changes in the
    economic conditions of the industries and geographic areas that
    produce and consume the freight that KCS transports. The
    relative strength or weakness



    
    13



Table of Contents




    of the United States and Mexican economies affect the businesses
    served by KCS. Prolonged negative changes in domestic and global
    economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the
    financial and credit markets, including the availability of
    short and long-term debt financing, may affect KCS, as well as
    the producers and consumers of the commodities that KCS
    transports and may have a material adverse effect on KCS’
    results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In
    particular, KCS’ financial performance depends, in part, on
    conditions in the automotive industry. Automobile manufacturers
    are among KCSM’s most significant customers, together
    representing approximately 12% of its total revenues in 2008.
    Automobile manufacturers have experienced declining market
    shares in North America and have announced significant
    restructuring actions in an effort to improve profitability
    including temporarily stopping production in December 2008
    and early 2009. If KCS’ automobile manufacturing customers
    cannot fund their operations, or if other major customers reach
    a similar level of financial distress, KCS may incur significant
    write offs of accounts receivable or incur impairment charges.
    In addition, cost-cutting initiatives adopted by automotive
    customers may result in increased downward pressure on the rates
    that KCS may charge. Pricing pressures may further intensify as
    automobile manufacturers continue to pursue restructuring and
    cost-cutting initiatives. KCSM’s automotive revenues
    decreased by approximately 4% for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 and decreased by approximately 31% for
    the three months ended December 31, 2008 compared to the
    same periods in 2007. A prolonged downturn in the North American
    automotive industry resulting in decreased demand or reduced
    rates for the transport of automotive products could have a
    negative impact on KCS’ business, financial condition and
    operating results.


 


    PCRC is directly affected by the world economy and trans-Pacific
    trade flows. In addition, KCS’ investments in Mexico and
    Panama expose the Company to risks associated with operating in
    Mexico and Panama, including, among others, cultural
    differences, varying labor, regulatory and operating practices,
    political risk and differences between the United States,
    Mexican and Panamanian economies. Historically, a stronger
    economy has resulted in improved results for KCS’ rail
    transportation operations. Conversely, when the economy has
    slowed, results have been less favorable. If an economic
    slowdown or recession occurs in key markets, the volume of rail
    shipments is likely to be reduced, which could have a material
    adverse effect on KCS’ business and financial condition.


 


    The transportation industry is highly cyclical, generally
    tracking the cycles of the world economy. Although
    transportation markets are affected by general economic
    conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each
    particular market segment that may influence operating results.
    Some of KCS’ customers do business in industries that are
    highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive, housing
    and agriculture industries. Any downturn in these industries
    could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Also,
    some of the products transported have had a historical pattern
    of price cyclicality which has typically been influenced by the
    general economic environment and by industry capacity and
    demand. For example, global steel and petrochemical prices have
    decreased in the past, and reduced demand for automotive
    vehicles and related shipments may result in decreased prices.
    KCS cannot assure that prices and demand for these products will
    not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries
    and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition or results.


 


    The Company’s operations may also be affected by natural
    disasters or adverse weather conditions. The Company operates in
    and along the Gulf Coast of the United States, and its
    facilities may be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods and
    other extreme weather conditions that adversely affect KCS’
    shipping, agricultural, chemical and other customers. Many of
    the goods and commodities transported by KCS experience cyclical
    demand. KCS’ results of operations can be expected to
    reflect this cyclical demand because of the significant fixed
    costs inherent in railroad operations. Significant reductions in
    the volume of rail shipments due to economic, weather, or other
    conditions could have a material adverse effect on KCS’
    business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash
    flows.


 



    KCS is
    exposed to the credit risk of its customers and counterparties
    and their failure to meet their financial obligations could
    adversely affect KCS’ business.


 


    KCS’ business is subject to credit risk. There is a risk
    that a customer or counterparty will fail to meet its
    obligations when due. Customers and counterparties that owe the
    Company money may default on their



    
    14



Table of Contents




    obligations to the Company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
    operational failure or other reasons. Although the Company has
    procedures for reviewing its receivables and credit exposures to
    specific customers and counterparties to address present credit
    concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances
    that are difficult to detect or foresee. Some of the
    Company’s risk management methods depend upon the
    evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other
    matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by
    the Company. That information may not, in all cases, be
    accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In
    addition, concerns about, or a default by, one customer or
    counterparty could lead to significant liquidity problems,
    losses or defaults by other customers or counterparties, which
    in turn could adversely affect the Company. The Company may be
    materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant
    default by its customers and counterparties.


 



    KCS’
    business is subject to regulation by international, federal,
    state and local regulatory agencies, including environmental,
    health, and safety laws and regulations that could require KCS
    to incur material costs or liabilities relating to
    environmental, health, or safety compliance or remediation.
    KCS’ failure to comply with these regulations could have a
    material adverse effect on its operations.


 


    KCS is subject to governmental regulation by international,
    federal, state and local regulatory agencies with respect to its
    railroad operations, including the Department of Transportation
    and the Department of Homeland Security in the United States and
    the Secretary of Communications and Transportation in Mexico, as
    well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, and
    other matters. Government regulation of the railroad industry is
    a significant determinant of the competitiveness and
    profitability of railroads. As part of the Rail Safety
    Improvement Act of 2008 in the United States, railroad carriers
    must implement positive train control (a collision avoidance
    technology that can override locomotive controls and stop a
    train before an accident) at certain locations (including
    wherever toxic inhalation hazard or poison inhalation hazard
    movements occur or where passenger operations occur) by the end
    of 2015, which could add to operating costs, increase the number
    of employees the Company employs and require KCS to invest
    significant amounts of money into new safety technology.
    KCS’ failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    liquidity and operations, including limitations on operating
    activities until compliance with applicable requirements is
    achieved. These government agencies may change the legislative
    or regulatory framework within which the Company operates
    without providing any recourse for any adverse effects on its
    business that occur as a result of such change. Additionally,
    some of the regulations require KCS to obtain and maintain
    various licenses, permits and other authorizations. Any failure
    to maintain these licenses, permits, and other authorizations
    could adversely affect KCS’ business.


 


    From time to time, certain KCS facilities have not been in
    compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and
    regulations and there can be no assurance that KCS will always
    be in compliance with such laws and regulations in the future.
    Environmental liability under federal and state law in the
    United States can also extend to previously owned or operated
    properties, leased properties and properties owned by third
    parties, as well as to properties currently owned and used by
    the Company. Environmental liabilities may also arise from
    claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties.
    Given the nature of its business, the Company incurs, and
    expects to continue to incur, environmental compliance costs,
    including, in particular, costs necessary to maintain compliance
    with requirements governing chemical and hazardous material
    shipping operations, refueling operations and repair facilities.
    KCS presently has environmental investigation and remediation
    obligations at certain sites, and will likely incur such
    obligations at additional sites in the future. Liabilities
    accrued for environmental costs represent the Company’s
    best estimate of the probable future obligation for the
    remediation and settlement of these sites. Although the recorded
    liability is the best estimate of all probable costs,
    clean-up
    costs cannot be predicted with absolute certainty, and may
    exceed such estimates, due to various factors such as evolving
    environmental laws and regulations, changes in technology, the
    extent of other parties’ participation, developments in
    environmental surveys and studies, and the extent of corrective
    action that may ultimately be required. New laws and
    regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements,
    accidental spills, releases or violations or the discovery of
    previously unknown contamination could require KCS to incur
    costs or subject KCS to liabilities that could have a material
    adverse effect on KCS’ business, results of operations,
    financial condition, and cash flows.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    The Company’s Mexican operations are subject to Mexican
    federal and state laws and regulations relating to the
    protection of the environment, including standards for, among
    other things, water discharge, water supply, emissions, noise
    pollution, hazardous substances and transportation and handling
    of hazardous and solid waste. Under applicable Mexican law and
    regulations, administrative and criminal proceedings may be
    brought and economic sanctions imposed against companies that
    violate environmental laws, and non-complying facilities may be
    temporarily or permanently closed. KCSM is also subject to the
    laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with
    respect to the discharge of materials into the environment and
    to environmental laws and regulations issued by the governments
    of each of the Mexican states in which KCSM’s facilities
    are located. The terms of KCSM’s Concession from the
    Mexican government also impose environmental compliance
    obligations on KCSM. The Company cannot predict the effect, if
    any, that unidentified environmental matters or the adoption of
    additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations
    would have on KCSM’s results of operations, cash flows or
    financial condition. Failure to comply with any environmental
    laws or regulations may result in the termination of KCSM’s
    Concession or in fines or penalties that may affect
    profitability.


 



    KCS,
    as a common carrier by rail, is required by United States and
    Mexican laws to transport hazardous materials, which could
    expose KCS to significant costs and claims.


 


    Under United States Federal statutes and Mexican applicable
    laws, KCS’s common carrier responsibility requires it to
    transport hazardous materials. Any rail accident or other
    incident or accident on KCS’s network, facilities, or at
    the facilities of KCS’s customers involving the release of
    hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or TIH)
    materials, could involve significant costs and claims for
    personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties
    and remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’s results of operations, financial condition, and
    liquidity.


 



    KCS’
    business is vulnerable to rising fuel costs and disruptions in
    fuel supplies. Any significant increase in the cost of fuel that
    is not adequately covered by fuel surcharges, or severe
    disruption of fuel supplies, would have a material adverse
    effect on KCS’ business, results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    KCS incurs substantial fuel costs in its railroad operations and
    these costs represent a significant portion of its
    transportation expenses. Significant price increases for fuel
    may have a material adverse effect on operating results. Fuel
    expense increased from 20% of consolidated operating costs
    during 2007 to 22% of consolidated operating costs during 2008.
    KCS has been able to pass the majority of these fuel cost
    increases on to customers in the form of fuel surcharges applied
    either in the form of an increase in the freight rate or direct
    customer billings. If KCS is unable to recapture its costs of
    fuel from its customers, operating results could be materially
    adversely affected. In addition, a severe disruption of fuel
    supplies resulting from supply shortages, political unrest, a
    disruption of oil imports, weather events, war, or otherwise,
    and the resulting impact on fuel prices could materially
    adversely affect KCS’ operating results, financial
    condition, and cash flows.


 


    KCS currently meets, and expects to continue to meet, fuel
    requirements for its Mexican operations almost exclusively
    through purchases at market prices from PEMEX Refinanción
    (“PEMEX”), the national oil company of Mexico, a
    government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the
    distribution and sale of diesel fuel in Mexico. KCSM is party to
    a fuel supply contract with PEMEX of indefinite duration. Either
    party may terminate the contract upon 30 days written
    notice to the other at any time. If the fuel contract is
    terminated and KCSM is unable to acquire diesel fuel from
    alternate sources on acceptable terms, the Mexican operations
    could be materially adversely affected.


 



    Market
    fluctuations could adversely impact KCS’s operating results
    as it hedges certain transactions.


 


    From time to time, KCS may use various financial instruments to
    reduce its exposure to various market risks including interest
    rates and fuel prices. While these financial instruments reduce
    our exposure to changes in market risks, the use of such
    instruments may ultimately limit the Company’s ability to
    benefit from lower fuel prices or interest rates due to amounts
    fixed at the time of entering into the hedge agreement.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    The
    loss of key personnel could negatively affect
    business.


 


    KCS’ success substantially depends on its ability to
    attract and retain key members of the senior management team and
    the principals of its foreign subsidiaries. Recruiting,
    motivating, and retaining qualified management personnel,
    particularly those with expertise in the railroad industry, are
    vital to operations and success. There is substantial
    competition for qualified management personnel and there can be
    no assurance that KCS will always be able to attract or retain
    qualified personnel. Employment agreements with senior
    management are terminable at any time by either party. If KCS
    loses one or more of these key executives or principals, its
    ability to successfully implement its business plans and the
    value of its common stock could be materially adversely affected.


 



    A
    majority of KCS’ employees belong to labor unions. Strikes
    or work stoppages could adversely affect
    operations.


 


    The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with
    various labor unions in the United States and Mexico. As of
    December 31, 2008, approximately 80% of KCSR’s and
    KCSM’s employees were covered by labor contracts subject to
    collective bargaining. The Company may be subject to, among
    other things, strikes, work stoppages or work slowdowns as a
    result of disputes under these collective bargaining agreements
    and labor contracts or KCS’ potential inability to
    negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions. In the United
    States, because such agreements are generally negotiated on an
    industry-wide basis, determination of the terms and conditions
    of labor agreements have been and could continue to be beyond
    KCS’ control. KCS may, therefore, be subject to terms and
    conditions in industry-wide labor agreements that could have a
    material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial
    position and cash flows. If the unionized workers in the United
    States or Mexico were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or
    other slowdown, if other employees were to become unionized, or
    if the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were
    renegotiated, KCS could experience a significant disruption of
    its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Although the
    U.S. Railway Labor Act imposes restrictions on the right of
    United States railway workers to strike, there is no law in
    Mexico imposing similar restrictions on the right of railway
    workers in that country to strike.


 



    KCS
    faces possible catastrophic loss and liability and its insurance
    may not be sufficient to cover its damages or damages to
    others.


 


    The operation of any railroad carries with it an inherent risk
    of catastrophe, mechanical failure, collision, and property
    loss. In the course of KCS’ operations, spills or other
    environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, business
    interruption due to political developments, as well as labor
    disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result
    in a loss of revenues or increased liabilities and costs.
    Collisions, environmental mishaps, or other accidents can cause
    serious bodily injury, death, and extensive property damage,
    particularly when such accidents occur in heavily populated
    areas. Additionally, KCS’ operations may be affected from
    time to time by natural disasters such as earthquakes,
    volcanoes, floods, hurricanes or other storms. The occurrence of
    a major natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ operations and financial condition. The Company
    maintains insurance that is consistent with industry practice
    against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of
    its business and business interruption due to natural disaster.
    However, this insurance is subject to a number of limitations on
    coverage, depending on the nature of the risk insured against.
    This insurance may not be sufficient to cover KCS’ damages
    or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be
    available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, KCS is
    subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may become
    insolvent and would be unable to pay a claim that may be made in
    the future. Even with insurance, if any catastrophic
    interruption of service occurs, KCS may not be able to restore
    service without a significant interruption to operations which
    could have an adverse effect on KCS’ financial condition.


 



    KCS’
    business may be affected by future acts of terrorism or
    war.


 


    Terrorist attacks, such as an attack on the Company’s
    chemical transportation activities, any government response
    thereto and war or risk of war may adversely affect KCS’
    results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.
    These acts may also impact the Company’s ability to raise
    capital or its future business



    
    17



Table of Contents




    opportunities. KCS’ rail lines and facilities could be
    direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror, which
    could cause significant business interruption and result in
    increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. In
    addition, insurance premiums charged for some or all of the
    terrorism coverage currently maintained by KCS could increase
    dramatically or certain coverage may not be available in the
    future.


 



    KCSM’s
    Mexican Concession is subject to revocation or termination in
    certain circumstances which would prevent KCSM from operating
    its railroad and would have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business and financial condition.


 


    KCSM operates under the Concession granted by the Mexican
    government, which is renewable for up to 50 years, subject
    to certain conditions. The Concession gives KCSM exclusive
    rights to provide freight transportation services over its rail
    lines for 30 years of the
    50-year
    Concession, subject to certain trackage and haulage rights
    granted to other concessionaires. The SCT, which is principally
    responsible for regulating railroad services in Mexico, has
    broad powers to monitor KCSM’s compliance with the
    Concession and it can require KCSM to supply it with any
    technical, administrative and financial information it requests.
    Among other obligations, KCSM must comply with the investment
    commitments established in its business plan, which forms an
    integral part of the Concession, and must update the plan every
    five years. The SCT treats KCSM’s business plans
    confidentially. The SCT also monitors KCSM’s compliance
    with efficiency and safety standards established in the
    Concession. The SCT reviews, and may amend, these standards
    every five years.


 


    The Mexican Railroad Services Law and regulations provide the
    Mexican government certain rights in its relationship with KCSM
    under the Concession, including the right to take over the
    management of KCSM and its railroad in certain extraordinary
    cases, such as imminent danger to national security. In the
    past, the Mexican government has used such power with respect to
    other privatized industries, including the telecommunications
    industry, to ensure continued service during labor disputes. In
    addition, under Article 47 of the Mexican Railroad Services
    Law and its regulations, the SCT, in consultation with the
    Mexican Antitrust Commission, reserves the right to set service
    rates if it determines that effective competition does not exist
    in the Mexican railroad industry. The Mexican Antitrust
    Commission, however, has not published guidelines regarding the
    factors that constitute a lack of competition. It is therefore
    unclear under what particular circumstances the Mexican
    Antitrust Commission would deem a lack of competition to exist.
    If the SCT intervenes and sets service rates, the rates it
    sets may be too low to allow KCSM to operate profitably.


 


    Under the Concession, KCSM has the right to operate its rail
    lines, but it does not own the land, roadway or associated
    structures. If the Mexican government legally terminates the
    Concession, it would own, control, and manage such public domain
    assets used in the operation of KCSM’s rail lines. All
    other property not covered by the Concession, including all
    locomotives and railcars otherwise acquired, will remain
    KCSM’s property. The Mexican government will have the right
    to cause the Company to lease all service-related assets to it
    for a term of at least one year, automatically renewable for
    additional one-year terms up to five years. The Mexican
    government must exercise this right within four months after
    revocation of the Concession. In addition, the Mexican
    government will also have a right of first refusal with respect
    to certain transfers by KCSM of railroad equipment within
    90 days after revocation of the Concession.


 


    The Mexican government may also temporarily seize control of
    KCSM’s rail lines and its assets in the event of a natural
    disaster, war, significant public disturbance or imminent danger
    to the domestic peace or economy. In such a case, the SCT may
    restrict KCSM’s ability to exploit the Concession in such
    manner as the SCT deems necessary under the circumstances, but
    only for the duration of any of the foregoing events. Mexican
    law requires that the Mexican government pay compensation if it
    effects a statutory appropriation for reasons of the public
    interest. With respect to a temporary seizure due to any cause
    other than international war, the Mexican Railroad Services Law
    and regulations provide that the Mexican government will
    indemnify an affected concessionaire for an amount equal to
    damages caused and losses suffered. However, these payments may
    not be sufficient to compensate KCSM for its losses and may not
    be timely made.


 


    The SCT may revoke the Concession if KCSM is sanctioned on three
    distinct occasions for unjustly interrupting the operation of
    its rail lines or for charging tariffs higher than the tariffs
    it has registered with the SCT. In addition, the SCT may revoke
    the Concession if, among other things, KCSM is sanctioned on
    five



    
    18



Table of Contents




    distinct occasions because KCSM restricts the ability of other
    Mexican rail operators to use its rail lines; KCSM fails to make
    payments for damages caused during the performance of services;
    KCSM fails to comply with any term or condition of the Mexican
    Railroad Services Law and regulations or the Concession;
    KCSM fails to make the capital investments required under
    its five-year business plan filed with the SCT; or KCSM fails to
    maintain an obligations compliance bond and insurance coverage
    as specified in the Mexican Railroad Services Law and
    regulations. In addition, the Concession would revoke
    automatically if KCSM changes its nationality or assigns or
    creates any lien on the Concession, or if there is a change in
    control of KCSM, without the SCT’s approval. The SCT may
    also terminate the Concession as a result of KCSM’s
    surrender of its rights under the Concession, or for reasons of
    public interest or upon KCSM’s liquidation or bankruptcy.
    Revocation or termination of the Concession would prevent KCSM
    from operating its railroad and would materially adversely
    affect the Mexican operations and the ability to make payments
    on KCSM’s debt. If the Concession is terminated or revoked
    by the SCT for any reason, KCSM would receive no compensation
    and its interest in its rail lines and all other fixtures
    covered by the Concession, as well as all improvements made by
    it, would revert to the Mexican government.


 


    In April 2006, the SCT initiated proceedings against KCSM,
    claiming that KCSM had failed to make certain minimum capital
    investments projected for 2004 and 2005 under its five-year
    business plan filed with the SCT prior to its April 2005
    acquisition by KCS (collectively, the “Capital Investment
    Proceedings”). KCSM believes it made capital expenditures
    exceeding the required amounts. KCSM responded to the SCT by
    providing evidence in support of its investments and explaining
    why it believes sanctions are not appropriate. In May 2007, KCSM
    was served with an SCT resolution regarding the Capital
    Investment Proceeding for 2004, in which the SCT determined that
    KCSM had indeed failed to make the minimum capital investments
    required for such year, but imposed no sanction as such failure
    was KCSM’s first breach of the relevant legal provisions.
    In June 2007, KCSM was served with an SCT resolution regarding
    the Capital Investment Proceeding for 2005, in which the SCT
    determined that KCSM had indeed failed to make the minimum
    capital investments required for such year, and imposed a fine
    in the amount of Ps.46,800. KCSM has filed actions before the
    Mexican Administrative Federal Court challenging both the 2004
    and 2005 investment plan resolutions issued by the SCT, and will
    have the right to challenge any adverse ruling.


 


    KCSM believes that even if sanctions are ultimately imposed as a
    consequence of the Capital Investment Proceedings, there will be
    no material adverse effect on its results of operations or
    financial condition. However, each of these potential sanctions
    is considered a “generic” sanction under Mexican law
    (i.e., sanctions applied to conduct not specifically referred to
    in specific subsections of the Mexican railway law). If these
    potential sanctions are conclusively ruled adversely against
    KCSM and sanctions are imposed, and if the SCT imposes other
    sanctions related to KCSM’s capital investments or other
    “generic” sanctions on three additional occasions over
    the remaining term of the Concession, KCSM could be subject to
    possible future SCT action seeking revocation of its Concession.
    Such revocation would materially adversely affect the results of
    operations and financial condition of KCSM.


 



    KCS’
    ownership of KCSM and operations in Mexico subject it to
    economic and political risks.


 


    The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise,
    significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly,
    Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and
    state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on
    Mexican private sector entities in general and on KCSM’s
    Mexican operations in particular. KCS cannot predict the impact
    that the political landscape, including the recently implemented
    multiparty rule, will have on the Mexican economy. Furthermore,
    KCSM’s financial condition, results of operations and
    prospects may be affected by currency fluctuations, inflation,
    interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and
    other political, social and economic developments in or
    affecting Mexico.


 


    KCSM uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency and
    remeasures its monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
    Mexican pesos into its functional currency. In 2008, the Mexican
    peso declined by about 24%, to Ps.13.5 at December 31, 2008
    compared to Ps.10.9 at December 31, 2007. The decrease in
    the peso accounted for the $21.0 million foreign currency
    loss on the Company’s results of operations for the year



    
    19



Table of Contents




    ended December 31, 2008. Further weakening of the peso
    could have a material adverse effect on KCS’ business,
    financial condition, and results of operation.


 


    The Mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment
    deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. Although
    Mexico has imposed foreign exchange controls in the past, there
    are currently no exchange controls in Mexico. Pursuant to the
    provisions of NAFTA, if Mexico experiences serious balance of
    payment difficulties or the threat of such difficulties in the
    future, Mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange
    controls on investments made in Mexico, including those made by
    United States and Canadian investors. Any restrictive exchange
    control policy could adversely affect KCS’ ability to
    obtain dollars or to convert pesos into dollars for purposes of
    making interest and principal payments due on indebtedness, to
    the extent KCS may have to effect those conversions, and could
    adversely affect the Company’s investment in KCSM. This
    could have a material adverse effect on KCS’ business and
    financial condition.


 


    Mexican national politicians are currently focused on certain
    regional, political and social tensions, and reforms regarding
    fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security,
    and oil have not been and may not be approved. The social and
    political situation in Mexico could adversely affect the Mexican
    economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on
    KCS’ business, financial condition, and results of
    operation.


 


    Securities of companies in emerging market countries tend to be
    influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging
    market countries. Some emerging market countries, including
    Argentina and Brazil, have experienced significant economic
    downturns and market volatility in the past. These events have
    had an adverse effect on the economic conditions and securities
    markets of other emerging market countries, including Mexico.


 



    Downturns
    in the United States economy or in trade between the United
    States and Asia or Mexico and fluctuations in the peso-dollar
    exchange rate would likely have adverse effects on KCS’
    business and results of operations.


 


    The level and timing of KCS’ Mexican business activity is
    heavily dependent upon the level of United States-Mexican
    trade and the effects of NAFTA on such trade. The Mexican
    operations depend on the United States and Mexican markets
    for the products KCSM transports, the relative position of
    Mexico and the United States in these markets at any given
    time, and tariffs or other barriers to trade. Downturns in the
    United States or Mexican economy or in trade between the United
    States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on KCS’
    business results of operations and the Company’s ability to
    meet debt service obligations. In addition, KCS has invested
    significant amounts in developing its intermodal operations at
    the port of Lázaro Cárdenas, in part to provide Asian
    importers with an alternative to the west coast ports of the
    United States, and the level of intermodal traffic depends, to
    an extent, on the volume of Asian shipments routed through
    Lázaro Cárdenas. Reduction in trading volumes between
    KCS and its Asian customers, which may be caused by factors
    beyond KCS’ control, including increased government
    regulations in light of recent concerns regarding the safety and
    quality of Asian-manufactured products, may adversely affect
    KCS’ business and results of operations.


 


    Also, fluctuations in the peso-dollar exchange rates could lead
    to shifts in the types and volumes of Mexican imports and
    exports. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the value of the
    Mexican peso declined significantly against the
    U.S. dollar. See “KCS’ ownership of KCSM and
    operations in Mexico subject it to economic and political
    risks” above. Although a decrease in the level of exports
    of some of the commodities that KCSM transports to the United
    States may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports of
    other commodities KCSM hauls into Mexico and vice versa, any
    offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at
    all. Future developments in United States-Mexican trade beyond
    the Company’s control may result in a reduction of freight
    volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and
    commodities KCSM carries.


 


    Any devaluation of the peso would cause the peso cost of
    KCSM’s dollar-denominated debt to increase, adversely
    affecting its ability to make payments on its indebtedness.
    Severe devaluation or depreciation of the peso may result in
    disruption of the international foreign exchange markets and may
    limit the ability to transfer pesos or to convert pesos into
    U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of
    interest and



    
    20



Table of Contents




    principal on the non-peso denominated indebtedness. Although the
    Mexican government currently does not restrict, and for many
    years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or
    foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into
    U.S. dollars or to transfer foreign currencies out of
    Mexico, the Mexican government could, as in the past, institute
    restrictive exchange rate policies that could limit the ability
    to transfer or convert pesos into U.S. dollars or other
    currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of the
    U.S. dollar-denominated debt and contractual commitments.
    Devaluation or depreciation of the peso against the
    U.S. dollar may also adversely affect U.S. dollar
    prices for KCS’ securities. Currency fluctuations are
    likely to continue to have an effect on KCS’ financial
    condition in future periods.


 



    Mexico
    may experience high levels of inflation in the future which
    could adversely affect KCS’ results of
    operations.


 


    Mexico has a history of high levels of inflation and may
    experience high inflation in the future. During most of the
    1980s and during the mid and late 1990s, Mexico experienced
    periods of high levels of inflation. The annual rates of
    inflation for the last three years, as measured by changes in
    the National Consumer Price Index, as provided by Banco de
    Mexico, were 6.5% in 2008, 3.8% in 2007 and 4.0% in 2006. A
    substantial increase in the Mexican inflation rate would have
    the effect of increasing some of KCSM’s costs, which could
    adversely affect its results of operations and financial
    condition. High levels of inflation may also affect the balance
    of trade between Mexico and the United States, and other
    countries, which could adversely affect KCSM’s results of
    operations.


 



    Risk
    Factors Relating to Ongoing Litigation


 


    KCS is party to various legal proceedings and administrative
    actions arising in the ordinary course of business including
    those specifically mentioned below:


 



    KCSR
    may be renamed as a defendant in a putative class action lawsuit
    that may divert management’s attention from the
    Company’s business, cause the Company to incur substantial
    expenses, and in the event of an adverse result expose the
    Company to significant damages and penalties.


 


    As described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8 of this
    Form 10-K,
    KCSR was included along with several other major
    U.S. railroads in 29 putative class actions alleging that
    the individual railroads conspired to fix fuel surcharges in
    violation of U.S. antitrust laws. On November 27,
    2007, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered
    that these putative class action cases be consolidated for
    pretrial handling before the United States District Court for
    the District of Columbia, where the matters remain pending (the
    “Multidistrict Litigation”). All of the plaintiffs in
    the Multidistrict Litigation filed a consolidated amended
    complaint on April 15, 2008. KCSR was not named as a
    defendant in that consolidated amended complaint pursuant to an
    agreement with the Multidistrict Litigation plaintiffs to toll
    the statute of limitations, and the Multidistrict Litigation
    does not include KCSR as a party.


 


    If KCSR is renamed as defendant to this litigation, KCSR intends
    to vigorously defend these claims. While the Company believes
    these price fixing allegations have no merit, no assurance can
    be given regarding the outcomes of these lawsuits. These and
    related matters have required, and will continue to require, the
    Company to incur substantial expenses for legal and other
    professional services. If KCSR is renamed as a party to this
    litigation and found liable in these proceedings, it could be
    required to pay damages (possibly including treble damages) and
    penalties and might face additional remedies that could harm its
    financial condition and operating results.


 



    KCSM
    is involved in several disputes related to providing service to
    a Mexican subsidiary of a large U.S. auto manufacturer, which if
    adversely resolved could have a negative impact on its business
    and operations.


 


    In March 2008, a Mexican subsidiary of a large U.S. auto
    manufacturer (the “Auto Manufacturer”) filed an
    arbitration suit against KCSM under a contract entered into in
    1999 for services to the Auto Manufacturer’s plants in
    Mexico, which, as amended, had a stated termination date of
    January 31, 2008. The Auto



    
    21



Table of Contents




    Manufacturer claims that the contract was implicitly extended
    and continued in effect beyond its stated termination date, and
    that KCSM is therefore required to continue abiding by its terms
    including but not limited to, the rates contemplated in such
    contract. KCSM claims that the contract did in fact expire on
    its stated termination date of January 31, 2008, and that
    services rendered thereafter are thus subject to the general
    terms and conditions (including rates) applicable in the absence
    of a specific contract, pursuant to Mexican law. Accordingly,
    KCSM filed a counterclaim against the Auto Manufacturer to,
    among other things, recover the applicable rate difference. The
    Auto Manufacturer is also seeking a declaration by the
    arbitrator that the rates being assessed by KCSM are
    discriminatory, even though the rates being charged are within
    the legal rate limits set by Mexican law for such freight
    transportation. KCSM believes that the facts of this dispute
    provide it with strong legal arguments and intends to vigorously
    defend its claims in this proceeding. As a result, management
    believes the final resolution of these claims will not have any
    material impact on KCSM’s results of operations.


 


    In May 2008, the SCT initiated a proceeding against KCSM, at the
    Auto Manufacturer’s request, alleging that KCSM
    impermissibly bundled international rail services and engaged in
    discriminatory pricing practices with respect to rail services
    provided by KCSM to the Auto Manufacturer. If the SCT were to
    determine that KCSM did engage in such actions, the SCT could
    impose sanctions on KCSM. On July 23, 2008, the
    SCT delivered notice to KCSM of new proceedings against
    KCSM, claiming, among other things, that KCSM refused to grant
    Ferromex access to certain trackage over which Ferromex alleges
    it has trackage rights in Coahuila on six different occasions
    and thus denied Ferromex the ability to provide service to the
    Auto Manufacturer at this location.


 


    KCSM does not believe that these SCT proceedings will have a
    material adverse effect on its results of operations or
    financial condition. However, if KCSM is ultimately sanctioned
    in connection with the bundling and discriminatory pricing
    practices alleged by the Auto Manufacturer, any such sanction
    would be considered a “generic” sanction under Mexican
    law (i.e., sanctions applied to conduct not specifically
    referred to in specific subsections of the Mexican railway law).
    If challenges against any such sanction are conclusively ruled
    adversely to KCSM and a sanction is effectively imposed, and if
    the SCT imposes other “generic” sanctions on four
    additional occasions over the remaining term of the Concession,
    KCSM could be subject to possible future SCT action seeking
    revocation of its Concession. Likewise, if each of the alleged
    six refusals to allow Ferromex to serve the Auto Manufacturer in
    Coahuila were to be finally decided to warrant a separate
    sanction, KCSM could be subject to a future SCT action seeking
    revocation of its Concession. Revocation of the Concession would
    materially adversely affect KCSM’s results of operations
    and financial condition


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B