Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS.
 Our business faces many risks. We have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our
subsidiaries face. There may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. 
Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect
on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. 
You should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this Report and any subsequent reports we may
file with the SEC or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. Our subsidiaries, CNA Financial Corporation, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. and Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, are public companies and file
reports with the SEC. You are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries before investing in any of their securities. 
   19 




Table of Contents

 Risks Related to Us and Our Subsidiary, CNA Financial Corporation 
If CNA determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and
claim adjustment expenses, CNA may need to increase its insurance reserves which would result in a charge to CNA’s earnings. 
CNA maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses,
including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims. Insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex management estimates developed utilizing a variety of actuarial
reserve estimation techniques as of a given reporting date. The reserve estimation process involves a high degree of judgment and variability and is subject to a number of variables which are highly uncertain. These variables can be affected by both
changes in internal processes and external events. Key variables include claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claims handling, policies and procedures, case reserving approach, underwriting and
pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. Mortality is the relative incidence of death. Morbidity is the frequency and
severity of injury, illness, sickness and diseases contracted.  There is generally a higher degree of variability in
estimating required reserves for long-tail coverages, such as general liability and workers’ compensation, as they require a relatively longer period of time for claims to be reported and settled. The impact of changes in inflation and medical
costs are more pronounced for long-tail coverages due to the longer settlement period.  CNA is also subject to the
uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. These issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative
effect on CNA’s business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in CNA’s reserves. The effects of these and other unforeseen
emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict.  Emerging or potential claims and coverage issues
include, but are not limited to, uncertainty in future medical costs in workers’ compensation. In particular, medical cost inflation could be greater than expected due to new treatments, drugs and devices; increased health care utilization;
and/or the future costs of health care facilities. In addition, the relationship between workers’ compensation and government and private health care providers could change, potentially shifting costs to workers’ compensation. 
In light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the judgments necessary to establish
reserve levels, CNA continually reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops from the actual reporting and settlement of claims and as the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. If
CNA’s recorded reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. These charges could be substantial.
 CNA’s actual experience could vary from the key assumptions used to determine active life reserves for long term care
policies.  CNA’s active life reserves for long term care policies are based on CNA’s best estimate
assumptions as of December 31, 2015 with no margin for adverse deviation. Key assumptions include morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force), discount rate and future premium rate increases. These assumptions, which are
critical bases for its reserve estimates are inherently uncertain. If actual experience varies from these assumptions or the future outlook for these assumptions changes, CNA may be required to increase its reserves. See the Life & Group
Non-Core Policyholder Reserves portion of Reserves – Estimates and Uncertainties section of MD&A in Item 7 for more information. 
   20 




Table of Contents

 Estimating future experience for long term care policies is highly uncertain
because the required projection period is very long and there is limited historical data and industry data available to CNA, as only a small portion of the long term care policies which have been written to date are in claims paying status.
Morbidity and persistency trends can be volatile and may be negatively affected by many factors including, but not limited to policyholder behavior, socioeconomic factors, changes in health trends and advances in medical care. 
A prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in CNA’s reserving would
result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting CNA’s obligations under long term care policies, which may require changes to its reserves. This risk is more significant for CNA’s long term care products because the long
potential duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. In addition, CNA may not receive regulatory approval for the level of premium rate increases it requests. Any adverse deviation between the level
of future premium rate increases approved and the level included in CNA’s reserving assumptions may require an increase to its reserves. 
If CNA’s estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, including changes in assumptions, the required increase in
reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. These charges could be substantial. 
Catastrophe losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. 
Catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of CNA’s business. Various events can cause catastrophe losses. These events
can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, floods, riots, strikes, civil commotion and acts of terrorism. The frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently
unpredictable. In addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising
temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. 
The extent of CNA’s losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected
areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance assumed and ceded reinsurance reinstatement premiums and state residual market assessments, if any. As in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a
long time for the ultimate cost to CNA to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, additional living expenses, infrastructure disruption, business
interruption and reinsurance collectibility. Reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to “unconventional” terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or
radiological attacks. As a result of the items discussed above, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. 
Additionally, claim frequency and severity for some lines of business can be correlated to an external factor such as economic
activity, financial market volatility, increasing health care costs or changes in the legal or regulatory environment. Claim frequency and severity can also be correlated to insureds’ use of common business practices, equipment, vendors or
software. This can result in multiple insured losses emanating out of the same underlying cause. In these instances, CNA may be subject to increased claim frequency and severity across multiple policies or lines of business concurrently. While CNA
does not define such instances as catastrophes for financial reporting purposes, they are similar to catastrophes in terms of the uncertainty and potential impact on its results. 
CNA has exposure related to A&EP claims, which could result in material losses. 
CNA’s property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to A&EP claims. CNA’s experience has
been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to A&EP claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. Additionally, traditional actuarial methods and
techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for A&EP. As a result, estimating the ultimate cost of
both reported and unreported A&EP claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. 
   21 




Table of Contents

 On August 31, 2010, CNA completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under
which substantially all of its legacy A&EP liabilities were ceded to National Indemnity Company (“NICO”), a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion (loss portfolio transfer or
“LPT”). The cumulative amount ceded under the loss portfolio transfer as of December 31, 2015 is $2.6 billion. If the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, net losses incurred on A&EP
claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion or CNA determines it has exposures to A&EP claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, CNA may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would
result in a charge against earnings. These charges could be substantial.  CNA faces intense competition in its industry; CNA may be
adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business as well as the availability and cost of reinsurance. 
All aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and CNA must continuously allocate resources to refine and
improve its insurance products and services. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price,
services, ratings and financial strength. The competitor insurer landscape has evolved substantially in recent years, with significant consolidation and new market entrants, resulting in increased pressures on CNA’s ability to remain
competitive, particularly in implementing pricing that is both attractive to CNA’s customer base and risk appropriate to CNA. In addition, the property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high
levels of price competition, resulting in less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium
rates. During periods in which price competition is high, CNA may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. As a result, CNA’s premium levels and expense ratio could be materially adversely impacted.
 Additionally, CNA purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. Under CNA’s ceded reinsurance
arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of CNA’s exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. Market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection CNA purchases, which affects
the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk CNA retains. If CNA is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, CNA may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the
level of its underwriting commitments.  CNA may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers, which could result in
higher net incurred losses.  CNA has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as
receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. The ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge CNA’s primary liability for
claims. As a result, CNA is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Certain of CNA’s reinsurance carriers have experienced credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of CNA’s
contractual relationship which increases the likelihood that CNA will not be able to recover amounts due. In addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which CNA believes are due to it. If the amounts CNA collects from reinsurers are less than the
amount recorded for any of the foregoing reasons, its net incurred losses will be higher.  CNA may not be able to collect amounts
owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies and/or who purchase retrospectively rated policies, which could result in higher net incurred losses. 
A portion of CNA’s business is written under deductible policies. Under these policies, CNA is obligated to pay the
related insurance claims and are reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. As a result, CNA is exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. If the amounts CNA collects from policyholders are less than
the amounts recorded, its incurred losses will be higher.  Moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated
workers’ compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). Retrospectively rated policies expose CNA to additional
credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. 
   22 




Table of Contents

 CNA may incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net
investment income arising from changes in the financial markets.  CNA’s investment portfolio is exposed to
various risks, such as interest rate, credit spread, issuer default, equity prices and foreign currency, which are unpredictable. Financial markets are highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, monetary policies, domestic and international
geopolitical issues and many other factors. Changes in financial markets including fluctuations in interest rates, credit, equity prices and foreign currency prices, and many other factors beyond CNA’s control can adversely affect the value of
its investments, the realization of investment income and the rate at which it discounts certain liabilities.  CNA has
significant holdings in fixed maturity investments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. A decline in interest rates may reduce the returns earned on new fixed maturity investments, thereby reducing CNA’s net investment income, while
an increase in interest rates may reduce the value of its existing fixed maturity investments. The value of CNA’s fixed maturity investments is also subject to risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in
the financial condition of issuers of the investments CNA holds. Any such impairments which CNA deems to be other-than-temporary would result in a charge to earnings. 
In addition, CNA invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater
market volatility than its fixed maturity investments. Limited partnership investments generally provide a lower level of liquidity than fixed maturity or equity investments and therefore may also limit CNA’s ability to withdraw assets. As a
result of all of these factors, CNA may not earn an adequate return on its investments, may be required to write down the value of its investments and may incur losses on the disposition of its investments. 
CNA is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements,
regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit CNA from operating its business.  Insurance companies such as CNA are
subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. These standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of CNA’s legal entity
statutory basis of accounting financial statements. Current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as Lloyd’s, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum
level determined using the applicable jurisdiction’s regulatory capital adequacy formula. If CNA does not meet these minimum requirements, CNA may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business. If CNA is required to record a material
charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimate or the occurrence of an event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, CNA may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to
raise sufficient additional capital. CNA may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. 
Globally, insurance regulators are working cooperatively to develop a common framework for the supervision of internationally
active insurance groups. Finalization and adoption of this framework could increase CNA’s minimum regulatory capital requirement as well as significantly increase its cost of regulatory compliance. 
CNA’s insurance subsidiaries, upon whom CNA depends for dividends in order to fund its working capital needs, are limited by
insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends.  CNA is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends,
loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. Ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary insurance regulator are generally
limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by jurisdiction. If CNA is restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving intercompany dividends, CNA may not be able to fund its working capital needs and debt service
requirements from available cash. As a result, CNA would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. 
   23 




Table of Contents

 Rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of CNA and thereby adversely affect its ability
to write insurance at competitive rates or at all.  Ratings are an important factor in establishing the
competitive position of insurance companies. CNA’s insurance company subsidiaries, as well as CNA’s public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.
(“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”). Ratings reflect the rating agency’s opinions of an insurance company’s or insurance holding company’s financial strength, capital adequacy, operating
performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders.  The rating
agencies may take action to lower CNA’s ratings in the future as a result of any significant financial loss or possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. The severity of the impact on CNA’s business is
dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. Among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major
insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of CNA’s insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. 
In addition, it is possible that a lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an
adverse impact on CNA’s ratings, independent of any change in CNA’s circumstances.  Risks Related to Us and Our Subsidiary, Diamond Offshore
Drilling, Inc.  The worldwide demand for Diamond Offshore’s drilling services has declined significantly as a result of the decline in oil
prices, which commenced during the second half of 2014 and has continued into 2016.  Demand for Diamond
Offshore’s drilling services depends in large part upon oil and natural gas industry offshore exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential
changes in oil and gas prices. Commencing in the second half of 2014, oil prices have declined precipitously and recently fell to a 12-year low of less than $30 per barrel. The dramatic reduction in commodity prices has caused a sharp decline in the
demand for offshore drilling services, including services that Diamond Offshore provides and adversely affected its operations and cash flows in 2015. A prolonged period of low oil prices would have a material adverse effect on many of Diamond
Offshore’s customers and, therefore its business.  Oil prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile
and are affected by numerous factors beyond Diamond Offshore’s control, including:   


 
●
 
 worldwide supply and demand for oil and gas;   


 
●
 
 the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; 
 


 
●
 
 the worldwide economic environment or economic trends, such as recessions; 
 


 
●
 
 the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels and pricing;
  


 
●
 
 the level of production in non-OPEC countries;   


 
●
 
 civil unrest and the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional
outbreak of armed hostilities involving the Middle East, Russia, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; 
 


 
●
 
 the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; 
 


 
●
 
 the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; 
   24 




Table of Contents




 
●
 
 the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves and production; 
 


 
●
 
 available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation and refining capacity; 
 


 
●
 
 the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital;   



 
●
 
 weather conditions, including hurricanes, which can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area; 
 


 
●
 
 natural disasters or incidents resulting from operating hazards inherent in offshore drilling, such as oil spills; 
 


 
●
 
 the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; 
 


 
●
 
 technological advances affecting energy consumption, including development and exploitation of alternative fuels or energy sources;
  


 
●
 
 laws and regulations relating to environmental or energy security matters, including those purporting to address global climate change;
  


 
●
 
 domestic and foreign tax policy; and   


 
●
 
 advances in exploration and development technology. 
An increase in commodity demand and prices will not necessarily result in an immediate increase in offshore drilling activity
since Diamond Offshore’s customers’ project development times, reserve replacement needs, and expectations of future commodity demand, prices and supply of available competing rigs all combine to affect demand for its rigs. 
Diamond Offshore’s business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which has been cyclical and is
significantly affected by many factors outside of its control.  Demand for Diamond Offshore’s drilling
services depends upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices, worldwide demand for oil and gas and a variety of political and
economic factors. The level of offshore drilling activity is also adversely affected when operators reduce or defer new investment in offshore projects, reduce or suspend their drilling budgets or reallocate their drilling budgets away from offshore
drilling in favor of other priorities, such as shale or other land-based projects, which could reduce demand for Diamond Offshore’s rigs and newbuilds. As a result, Diamond Offshore’s business and the oil and gas industry in general are
subject to cyclical fluctuations.  As a result of the cyclical fluctuations in the market, there have been periods of
lower demand, excess rig supply and lower dayrates, followed by periods of higher demand, shorter rig supply and higher dayrates. Diamond Offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such fluctuations. Periods of lower demand or excess rig
supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in periods of lower utilization and lower dayrates. During these periods, Diamond Offshore’s rigs may not obtain contracts for future work and may be idle for long periods of
time or may be able to obtain work only under contracts with lower dayrates or less favorable terms which could have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore’s business during these periods. Additionally, prolonged periods of low
utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of Diamond Offshore’s drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the
carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable.  Diamond Offshore’s industry is highly competitive, with oversupply and
intense price competition.  The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry
participants. Some of Diamond Offshore’s competitors may be larger companies, have larger or more technologically advanced fleets and have greater financial or other resources than it does. The drilling industry has experienced consolidation in
the past 
   25 




Table of Contents

 
and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price is typically the
primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job; however, rig availability and location, a drilling contractor’s safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered.
 Recent new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs, cancelation or termination of contracts, as well as
established rigs coming off contract during 2015, have contributed to the current oversupply of drilling rigs intensifying price competition. Additional newbuild rigs entering the market are expected to further negatively impact rig utilization and
intensify price competition as rigs are delivered.  Diamond Offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer
base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. During 2015, one of Diamond Offshore’s customers in Brazil, Petrobras, and Diamond Offshore’s five largest customers in the aggregate
accounted for 24% and 65%, of its annual total consolidated revenues. The loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on Diamond Offshore’s financial results especially in a declining market where the number of Diamond
Offshore’s working drilling rigs is declining along with the number of its active customers. In addition, if a significant customer experiences liquidity constraints or other financial difficulties, it could materially adversely affect
utilization rates in the affected market and also displace demand for Diamond Offshore’s other drilling rigs and newbuilds as the resulting excess supply enters the market. While it is normal for Diamond Offshore’s customer base to change
over time as work programs are completed, the loss of or a significant reduction in the number of rigs contracted with any major customer may have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore’s future business. 
Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance that its drilling contracts will not be terminated early or that its current backlog of
contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized.  Currently, Diamond Offshore’s customers may terminate
their drilling contracts under certain circumstances, such as if the drilling rig is destroyed or lost, if Diamond Offshore suspends drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, excessive downtime
for repairs, failure to meet minimum performance criteria (including customer acceptance testing) or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. Diamond Offshore’s drilling contract for the Ocean BlackLion,
for example, requires it to successfully complete certain testing procedures for the rig’s equipment, including the blowout preventers and well control systems. Diamond Offshore is currently undergoing the required testing. If these tests are
not successfully completed, Diamond Offshore’s customer has the right to terminate the drilling contract or may request a renegotiation of the terms of the contract. 
In addition, some of Diamond Offshore’s drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified
notice periods often by tendering contractually specified termination amounts, which may not fully compensate Diamond Offshore for the loss of the contract. During depressed market conditions, certain customers have utilized such contract clauses to
seek to renegotiate or terminate a drilling contract or claim that Diamond Offshore has breached provisions of its drilling contracts in order to avoid their obligations to Diamond Offshore under circumstances where it believes it is in compliance
with the contracts. Additionally, because of depressed commodity prices, restricted credit markets, economic downturns, changes in priorities or strategy or other factors beyond Diamond Offshore’s control, a customer may no longer want or need
a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower dayrate. For these reasons, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of Diamond Offshore’s existing drilling contracts, terminate their contracts
without justification or repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. Such renegotiations could include requests to lower the contract dayrate, lowering of a dayrate in exchange for additional contract term,
shortening the term on one contracted rig in exchange for additional term on another rig, early termination of a contract in exchange for a lump sum margin payout and many other possibilities. Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog may be
adversely impacted as a result of such contract renegotiations.  When a customer terminates a contract prior to the
contract’s scheduled expiration, Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog is adversely impacted, and it might not recover any compensation for the termination or any recovery Diamond Offshore might obtain may not fully compensate it for the
loss of the contract. In any case, the early termination of a contract may result in Diamond Offshore’s rig being idle for an extended period of time. Each of these results could have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore’s
business. In addition, if a customer cancels 
   26 




Table of Contents

 
a contract or if Diamond Offshore elects to terminate a contract due to the customer’s nonperformance and in either case Diamond Offshore is unable to secure a new contract on a timely basis
and on substantially similar terms, or if a contract is disputed or suspended for an extended period of time or if a contract is renegotiated, it could materially and adversely affect Diamond Offshore’s business. 
Generally, Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time
to time, Diamond Offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance in such cases that it will be able to ultimately execute a
definitive agreement. In addition, for the reasons described above, Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be willing or able to fulfill their contractual commitments. Diamond Offshore’s inability to perform under its
contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements, or its customers’ inability or unwillingness to fulfill their contractual commitments to Diamond Offshore, may have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore’s business. 
Diamond Offshore may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts for its rigs. 
Diamond Offshore has a number of customer contracts that will expire in 2016 and 2017. Diamond Offshore’s ability to
renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts, will depend on various factors, including market conditions and the specific needs of its customers. Given the highly competitive and historically
cyclical nature of the industry, Diamond Offshore may not be able to renew or replace the contracts or it may be required to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts at dayrates that are below, and potentially substantially below,
existing dayrates, or that have terms that are less favorable than existing contracts or it may be unable to secure contracts for these rigs. 
Diamond Offshore’s contract drilling expense includes fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in rig
utilization and dayrates.  Diamond Offshore’s contract drilling expense includes all direct and indirect
costs associated with the operation, maintenance and support of its drilling equipment, which is often not affected by changes in dayrates and utilization. During periods of reduced revenue and/or activity, certain of Diamond Offshore’s fixed
costs will not decline and often it may incur additional operating costs, such as fuel and catering costs, for which it is generally reimbursed by the customer when a rig is under contract. During times of reduced utilization, reductions in costs
may not be immediate as Diamond Offshore may incur additional costs associated with cold stacking of a rig (particularly if Diamond Offshore cold stacks a newer rig, such as a drillship, for which cold stacking costs are typically substantially
higher than for a jack-up rig or an older floater rig), or it may not be able to fully reduce the cost of its support operations in a particular geographic region due to the need to support the remaining drilling rigs in that region. A decline in
revenue due to lower dayrates and/or utilization may not be offset by a corresponding decrease in contract drilling expense and could have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore’s business. 
Diamond Offshore may enter into drilling contracts that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes. 
From time to time, Diamond Offshore may enter into drilling contracts with national oil companies, government-controlled
entities or others that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes, such as exposure to greater environmental or other liability and more onerous termination provisions giving the customer a right to terminate without cause or upon little
or no notice. Upon termination, these contracts may not result in a payment to Diamond Offshore, or if a termination payment is required, it may not fully compensate Diamond Offshore for the loss of a contract. In addition, the early termination of
a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time, which could adversely affect Diamond Offshore’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While Diamond Offshore believes that the financial terms of
these contracts and its operating safeguards in place may partially mitigate these risks, it can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a material negative impact on future operations or financial results. 
   27 




Table of Contents

 Contracts for Diamond Offshore’s drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts,
and increases in Diamond Offshore’s operating costs could adversely affect the profitability on those contracts. 
Diamond Offshore’s contracts for its drilling rigs generally provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating
day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs it incurs on the project. Many of Diamond Offshore’s operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on
events beyond its control. In addition, equipment repair and maintenance expenses fluctuate depending on the type of activity the rig is performing, the age and condition of the equipment and general market factors impacting relevant parts,
components and services. The gross margin that Diamond Offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in its operating costs over the terms of the contracts. In addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation
clauses, Diamond Offshore may not be able to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. Diamond Offshore’s inability to recover these increased or unforeseen costs from its customers could materially and adversely affect
its business.  Rig conversions, upgrades or newbuilds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. 
From time to time, Diamond Offshore adds new capacity through conversions or upgrades to its existing rigs or through new
construction, such as the harsh environment, ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig, Ocean GreatWhite, which is currently under construction. Projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction
project resulting from numerous factors, including the following:   


 
●
 
 shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor;   


 
●
 
 work stoppages;   


 
●
 
 unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; 
 


 
●
 
 unanticipated cost increases or change orders;   


 
●
 
 weather interferences or storm damage;   


 
●
 
 difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; 
 


 
●
 
 design and engineering problems;   


 
●
 
 disputes with shipyards or suppliers;   


 
●
 
 availability of suppliers to recertify equipment for enhanced regulations; 
 


 
●
 
 customer acceptance delays;   


 
●
 
 shipyard failures or unavailability; and   


 
●
 
 failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. 
Failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in
accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of contract drilling backlog and revenue to Diamond Offshore. If a drilling contract
is terminated under these circumstances, Diamond Offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract, or if it does secure a replacement contract, it may not contain equally favorable terms. In addition, impairment write-offs could result if a
rig’s carrying value becomes excessive due to spending over budget on a newbuild construction project or major rig upgrade. 
   28 




Table of Contents

 Diamond Offshore’s business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it
to significant losses and significant damage claims. Diamond Offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect Diamond Offshore. 
Diamond Offshore’s operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such
as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. The occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of
drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, and oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled
fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. In addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to marine hazards, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Operations also may be
suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. Any of the foregoing events could result in significant damage or loss to
Diamond Offshore’s properties and assets or the properties and assets of others, injury or death to rig personnel or others, significant loss of revenues and significant damage claims against Diamond Offshore, which could have a material
adverse effect on its business.  Diamond Offshore’s drilling contracts with its customers provide for varying levels
of indemnity and allocation of liabilities between its customers and Diamond Offshore with respect to the hazards and risks inherent in, and damages or losses arising out of, its operations, and Diamond Offshore may not be fully protected. Diamond
Offshore’s contracts with its customers generally provide that Diamond Offshore and its customers each assume liability for their respective personnel and property. Diamond Offshore’s contracts also generally provide that its customers
assume most of the responsibility for and indemnify Diamond Offshore against loss, damage or other liability resulting from, among other hazards and risks, pollution originating from the well and subsurface damage or loss, while Diamond Offshore
typically retains responsibility for and indemnifies its customers against pollution originating from the rig. However, in certain drilling contracts Diamond Offshore may not be fully indemnified by its customers for damage to their property and/or
the property of their other contractors. In certain contracts Diamond Offshore may assume liability for losses or damages (including punitive damages) resulting from pollution or contamination caused by negligent or willful acts of commission or
omission by Diamond Offshore, its suppliers and/or subcontractors, generally subject to negotiated caps on a per occurrence basis and/or on an aggregate basis for the term of the contract. In some cases, suppliers or subcontractors who provide
equipment or services to Diamond Offshore may seek to limit their liability resulting from pollution or contamination. Diamond Offshore’s contracts are individually negotiated, and the levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities in them
can vary from contract to contract depending on market conditions, particular customer requirements and other factors existing at the time a contract is negotiated. 
Additionally, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in Diamond Offshore’s contracts may be limited or
prohibited by applicable law or may not be enforced by courts having jurisdiction, and Diamond Offshore could be held liable for substantial losses or damages and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities. The indemnification
provisions of Diamond Offshore’s contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and the laws or courts of certain jurisdictions may enforce such provisions while other laws or courts may find them to be unenforceable, void or limited by
public policy considerations, including when the cause of the underlying loss or damage is Diamond Offshore’s gross negligence or willful misconduct, when punitive damages are attributable to Diamond Offshore or when fines or penalties are
imposed directly against Diamond Offshore. The law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to Diamond Offshore’s contracts. Current or
future litigation in particular jurisdictions, whether or not Diamond Offshore is a party, may impact the interpretation and enforceability of indemnification provisions in its contracts. There can be no assurance that Diamond Offshore’s
contracts with its customers, suppliers and subcontractors will fully protect it against all hazards and risks inherent in its operations. There can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify Diamond Offshore
will be financially able to do so or will otherwise honor their contractual obligations.  Diamond Offshore maintains
liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, Diamond Offshore’s insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. In addition, certain
risks such as pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. Also, Diamond Offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to 
   29 




Table of Contents

 
cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. Accordingly, it is possible that Diamond Offshore’s losses from the hazards it faces could have a material adverse effect on its business.
 Diamond Offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is
customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. However, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds Diamond Offshore’s coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its
insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore’s business. There can be no assurance that Diamond Offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently
maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that Diamond Offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that Diamond Offshore will be able to obtain insurance against
some risks.  Diamond Offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the
GOM.  Because the amount of insurance coverage available to Diamond Offshore has been limited, and the cost for
such coverage is substantial, Diamond Offshore self-insures for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the GOM. This results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party
insurance contracts.  In addition, certain of Diamond Offshore’s shore-based facilities are located in geographic
regions that are susceptible to damage or disruption from hurricanes and other weather events. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact Diamond Offshore’s facilities, its personnel located at those facilities or its ongoing
operations may negatively affect its business for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced or lost sales and revenues; costs associated with interruption in operations and with resuming operations; reduced demand for Diamond
Offshore’s services from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance; employee evacuations; and an inability to retain
necessary staff.  Significant portions of Diamond Offshore’s operations are conducted outside the United States and involve
additional risks not associated with United States domestic operations.  Diamond Offshore’s operations
outside the United States accounted for approximately 79%, 85% and 89% of its total consolidated revenues for 2015, 2014 and 2013 and include operations in South America, Australia and Southeast Asia, Europe, East and West Africa, the Mediterranean
and Mexico. Because Diamond Offshore operates in various regions throughout the world, it is exposed to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, acts of terrorism, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as
possible restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may consider to be state sponsors of terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. Diamond Offshore may not have insurance coverage for these risks, or it may not be able to obtain
adequate insurance coverage for such events at reasonable rates. Diamond Offshore’s operations may become restricted, disrupted or prohibited in any country in which any of the foregoing risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of
these risks or any of the following events could materially and adversely impact Diamond Offshore’s business:   


 
●
 
 political and economic instability;   


 
●
 
 piracy, terrorism or other assaults on property or personnel; 
 


 
●
 
 kidnapping of personnel;   


 
●
 
 seizure, expropriation, nationalization, deprivation, malicious damage or other loss of possession or use of property or equipment;
  


 
●
 
 renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts;   


 
●
 
 disputes and legal proceedings in international jurisdictions; 
   30 




Table of Contents




 
●
 
 changing social, political and economic conditions;   


 
●
 
 enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions; 
 


 
●
 
 imposition of wage and price controls, trade barriers or import-export quotas; 
 


 
●
 
 restrictive foreign and domestic monetary policies;   


 
●
 
 the inability to repatriate income or capital;   


 
●
 
 difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; 
 


 
●
 
 fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on currency exchange; 
 


 
●
 
 regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; 
 


 
●
 
 restriction or disruption of business activities;   


 
●
 
 limitation of access to markets for periods of time;   


 
●
 
 travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; 
 


 
●
 
 difficulties in supplying, repairing or replacing equipment or transporting personnel in remote locations; 
 


 
●
 
 difficulties in obtaining visas or work permits for employees on a timely basis; and 
 


 
●
 
 changing taxation policies and confiscatory or discriminatory taxation. 
Diamond Offshore is also subject to the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and other U.S. laws
and regulations governing its international operations in addition to worldwide anti-bribery laws. In addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which Diamond Offshore operates,
including laws and regulations relating to:   


 
●
 
 the equipping and operation of drilling rigs;   


 
●
 
 import-export quotas or other trade barriers;   


 
●
 
 repatriation of foreign earnings or capital;   


 
●
 
 oil and gas exploration and development;   


 
●
 
 local content requirements;   


 
●
 
 taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and 
 


 
●
 
 use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. 
Some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of
a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect Diamond Offshore’s ability to compete in those regions. It is difficult to predict
what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international offshore drilling industry. The actions of foreign governments may materially and adversely affect Diamond Offshore’s ability to compete.

   31 




Table of Contents

 In addition, the shipment of goods, including the movement of a drilling rig
across international borders, subjects Diamond Offshore to extensive trade laws and regulations. Diamond Offshore’s import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations that differ in each of the countries in which Diamond
Offshore operates and often impose record keeping and reporting obligations. The laws and regulations concerning import/export activity and record keeping and reporting requirements are complex and change frequently. These laws and regulations may
be enacted, amended, enforced and/or interpreted in a manner that could materially and adversely impact Diamond Offshore’s operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which may be outside of
Diamond Offshore’s control. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled downtime for rigs. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal and civil penalties, economic sanctions, seizure of shipments and/or
the contractual withholding of monies owed to Diamond Offshore, among other things.  Diamond Offshore may be required to accrue
additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings.  Certain of Diamond Offshore’s international
rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by Diamond Foreign Asset Company (“DFAC”), a Cayman Islands subsidiary that it owns. It is Diamond Offshore’s intention to indefinitely reinvest future earnings of DFAC and its
foreign subsidiaries to finance foreign activities. Diamond Offshore does not expect to provide for U.S. taxes on any future earnings generated by DFAC and its foreign subsidiaries, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected
to U.S. federal income tax. Should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, Diamond Offshore may be required to record additional U.S. income taxes, that, if material, could have a material adverse effect on
Diamond Offshore’s business.  Fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses.
 Due to Diamond Offshore’s international operations, Diamond Offshore has experienced currency exchange
losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. Diamond Offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues
because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. 
Diamond Offshore relies on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment, components and parts used in
rig operations, conversions, upgrades and construction.  Diamond Offshore’s reliance on third-party
suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to provide equipment and services exposes it to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. Certain components, parts and equipment that are used in Diamond Offshore’s
operations may be available only from a small number of suppliers, manufacturers or service providers. The failure of one or more third-party suppliers, manufacturers or service providers to provide equipment, components, parts or services, whether
due to capacity constraints, production or delivery disruptions, price increases, quality control issues, recalls or other decreased availability of parts and equipment, is beyond Diamond Offshore’s control and could materially disrupt its
operations or result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of drilling contracts, thereby causing a loss of contract drilling backlog and/or revenue, as well as an increase in operating costs. 
Additionally, Diamond Offshore’s suppliers, manufacturers and service providers could be negatively impacted by current
industry conditions or global economic conditions. If certain of Diamond Offshore’s suppliers, manufacturers or service providers were to experience significant cash flow issues, become insolvent or otherwise curtail or discontinue their
business as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or equipment available to Diamond Offshore and/or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and equipment, which could adversely impact
Diamond Offshore’s business. 
   32 




Table of Contents

 Risks Related to Us and Our Subsidiary, Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP 
Boardwalk Pipeline’s actual construction and development costs could exceed its forecast, and its cash flow from construction and
development projects may not be immediate, which may limit its ability to maintain or increase cash distributions. 
Boardwalk Pipeline is engaged in multiple significant construction projects involving existing and new assets for which it has
expended or will expend significant capital and it expects to engage in additional growth projects of this type. The construction of new assets involves regulatory, environmental, legal, political, materials and labor cost, operational and other
risks that are difficult to predict and beyond Boardwalk Pipeline’s control. Any of these projects may not be completed on time or at all, may be impacted by significant cost overruns or may be materially changed prior to completion as a result
of developments or circumstances that Boardwalk Pipeline is not aware of when it commits to the project, including the ability of any foundation shipper to provide adequate credit support or to otherwise perform their obligations under any precedent
agreements. Any of these factors could result in material unexpected costs or have a material adverse effect on Boardwalk Pipeline’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its growth projects. 
Boardwalk Pipeline’s revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately on its expenditure of funds on a particular
project. For example, if Boardwalk Pipeline builds a new pipeline or expands an existing facility, the design, construction and development may occur over an extended period of time and Boardwalk Pipeline may not receive any increase in revenue or
cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service and customers begin using the new facilities.  Boardwalk Pipeline is
exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by its customers.  Credit risk relates to the risk of loss
resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Credit risk exists in relation to Boardwalk Pipeline’s growth projects, both because foundation shippers have made long term commitments to Boardwalk Pipeline for
capacity on such projects and certain of the foundation shippers have agreed to provide credit support as construction progresses. If a foundation shipper fails to meet the contractual credit requirements, an adjustment to the scope of the project
could occur to accommodate a reduced volume commitment or Boardwalk Pipeline may be forced to find new customers to replace the defaulting customer, which could reduce the returns on the project. Boardwalk Pipeline’s exposure also relates to
receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by it to them under certain NNS and PAL services. 
Boardwalk Pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. For 2015, no one customer
comprised more than 10% of its operating revenues, and the top ten customers comprised approximately 45% of revenues. If any of Boardwalk Pipeline’s significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to
pay for services provided by Boardwalk Pipeline or contracted for with them, to post the required credit support for construction associated with its growth projects or to repay the gas they owe Boardwalk Pipeline, it could have a material adverse
effect on its business. In addition, Boardwalk Pipeline’s FERC gas tariffs only allow it to require limited credit support in the event that transportation customers are unable to pay for Boardwalk Pipeline’s services. 
Natural gas producers comprise a significant portion of Boardwalk Pipeline’s revenues and support several of its growth
projects. For example, in 2015, approximately 50% of Boardwalk Pipeline’s revenues were generated from contracts with natural gas producers. During 2015, the prices of oil and natural gas declined significantly from an increase in supplies
mainly from shale production areas in the U.S. Should the prices of natural gas and oil remain at current levels for a sustained period of time, or decline further, Boardwalk Pipeline could be exposed to increased credit risk associated with its
producer customer group, which would adversely impact Boardwalk Pipeline’s business. 
   33 




Table of Contents

 Boardwalk Pipeline may not be able to replace expiring natural gas transportation contracts
at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to market conditions such as narrower basis differentials and sustained changes in the levels of natural gas and oil prices
which adversely affect the value of its transportation services.  Transportation rates Boardwalk Pipeline is able
to charge customers are heavily influenced by longer-term trends in, for example, the amount and geographical location of natural gas production and demand for gas by end-users such as power plants, petrochemical facilities and LNG export
facilities. As a result of changes in longer-term trends, a sustained narrowing of basis differentials corresponding to traditional flow patterns on Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipeline systems (generally south to north and west to east) has occurred,
reducing the transportation rates and adversely impacting other contract terms Boardwalk Pipeline can negotiate with its customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts scheduled for renewal. 
Each year, a portion of Boardwalk Pipeline’s firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or
replaced. Over the past several years, Boardwalk Pipeline has renewed many expiring contracts at lower rates and for shorter terms than in the past, or not at all. Boardwalk Pipeline expects this trend to continue, mainly for contracts to transport
gas from west to east across its system, and therefore, it may not be able to sell its available capacity, extend expiring contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or for the same term as the expiring
contracts. The prevailing market conditions may also lead some of Boardwalk Pipeline’s customers, particularly customers that are experiencing financial difficulties, to seek to renegotiate existing contracts to terms that are less attractive
to it. These sustained conditions have had, and Boardwalk Pipeline expects will continue to have, a materially adverse effect on revenues, earnings and distributable cash flows. 
In 2008 and 2009, Boardwalk Pipeline placed into service a number of large new pipelines and expansions of its system,
including its East Texas Pipeline, Southeast Expansion, Gulf Crossing Pipeline, and Fayetteville and Greenville Laterals. These projects were supported by firm transportation agreements with anchor shippers, typically having a term of ten years and
pricing and other terms negotiated based on then current market conditions, which included wider basis spreads and, correspondingly, higher transportation rates than those prevailing in the current market. As a result, in 2018 and 2019, Boardwalk
Pipeline will have significantly more transportation contract expirations than other years. Boardwalk Pipeline cannot predict what market conditions will prevail at the time such contracts expire, but if the contracts are renewed, it expects that
these contracts will renew at lower transportation rates than when the contracts were initially executed. For example, if these contracts were renewed at current transportation market rates, revenues earned from these transportation contracts would
be materially lower. If Boardwalk Pipeline is unable to renew or replace these and other expiring contracts when they expire, or if the terms of any such renewal or replacement contracts are not as favorable as the expiring agreements, its revenues
and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. These market factors and conditions could materially impact Boardwalk Pipeline’s business. 
Changes in energy prices, including natural gas, oil and NGLs, impact supply of and demand for those commodities, which impact Boardwalk
Pipeline’s business.  Boardwalk Pipeline’s business is not significantly impacted by the short-term
change in commodity prices, however, its customers, a significant amount of which are producers, are directly impacted by changes in commodity prices, which can impact Boardwalk Pipeline’s ability to renew contracts at existing capacities or
rates or impact the producer’s ability to make payment for the services it provides. The prices of natural gas, oil and NGLs fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors. If the
recent dramatic declines in the levels of natural gas, oil and NGLs prices mentioned above were to continue for a sustained period of time, the businesses of Boardwalk Pipeline’s producer customer group would be adversely affected which, in
turn, would reduce the demand for Boardwalk Pipeline’s services and could result in defaults or the non-renewal of contracted capacity when existing contracts expire. Conversely, future increases in the price of natural gas and NGLs could make
alternative energy and feedstock sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas and NGLs. A reduced level of demand for natural gas and NGLs could reduce the utilization of capacity on Boardwalk Pipeline’s systems, reduce the demand
for its services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire and adversely impact its revenues, earnings and distributable cash flow. 
   34 




Table of Contents

 Legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of
new or more stringent safety controls, substantial changes to existing integrity management programs, or more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject Boardwalk Pipeline to increased capital and operating costs and
operational delays.  Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipelines are subject to regulation by PHMSA of the DOT under the
NGPSA with respect to natural gas and the HLPSA with respect to NGLs. The NGPSA and HLPSA govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of natural gas and NGLs pipeline facilities. These laws have
resulted in the adoption of rules by PHMSA, that, among other things, require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, correction of identified anomalies and other measures to
ensure pipeline safety in high consequence areas (HCAs), such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA
regulations for certain intrastate natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines, which regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law. Compliance with these rules has resulted in an overall increase in maintenance
costs. New laws or regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations, which could cause it to incur increased
capital and operating costs and operational delays.  The NGPSA and HLPSA were most recently updated by the 2011 Act, which
was signed into law in early 2012. Under the 2011 Act, maximum civil penalties for certain violations have been increased to $200,000 per violation per day, with a total cap of $2.0 million. The 2011 Act reauthorized the federal pipeline safety
programs of PHMSA through 2015, and directs the Secretary of Transportation to undertake a number of reviews, studies and reports, some of which may result in more stringent safety controls or inspections or additional natural gas and hazardous
liquids pipeline safety rulemaking. Among other things, the 2011 Act directed the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate rules relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve
use, leak detection system installation, pipeline material strength testing and verification of maximum allowable pressures of certain pipelines. Although a number of the mandates imposed under the 2011 Act have yet to be acted upon by PHMSA, the
provisions of the 2011 Act continue to have the potential to cause owners and operators of pipeline facilities to incur significant capital expenditures and/or operating costs. New pipeline safety legislation that will reauthorize the federal
pipeline safety programs of PHMSA through 2019 will be under consideration. Passage of new legislation reauthorizing the PHMSA pipeline safety programs is expected to require, among other things, pursuit of those legal mandates included in the 2011
Act but not acted upon by PHMSA.  Further, Boardwalk Pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers
that utilize the design capacity of certain of pipeline assets, assuming that Boardwalk Pipeline operates those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline’s SMYS. Boardwalk Pipeline has authority
from PHMSA to operate those pipeline assets at such higher pressures; however, PHMSA retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. If PHMSA were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, Boardwalk Pipeline may not be able to
transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on its pipeline assets and could incur significant additional costs to re-obtain such authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. 
Boardwalk Pipeline may not continue making distributions to unitholders at the current distribution rate, or at all. 
The amount of cash Boardwalk Pipeline has available to distribute to its unitholders principally depends upon the amount of
cash it generates from its operations and financing activities and the amount of cash it requires, or determines to use, for other purposes, all of which fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond the
control of Boardwalk Pipeline. Some of the factors that influence the amount of cash Boardwalk Pipeline has available for distribution in any quarter include:   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in cash generated by its operations, including, as a result of the seasonality of its business, customer payment issues and the timing
of payments, general business conditions and market conditions, which impact, for example, contract renewals, pricing, basis spreads, time period price spreads, market rates and supply and demand for natural gas and Boardwalk Pipeline’s
services; 
   35 




Table of Contents




 
•
 
 the level of capital expenditures Boardwalk Pipeline makes or anticipate making, including for expansion, growth projects and acquisitions;
  


 
•
 
 the amount of cash necessary to meet current or anticipated debt service requirements and other liabilities; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in working capital needs;   


 
•
 
 the ability to borrow funds and/or access capital markets on acceptable terms to fund operations or capital expenditures, including acquisitions,
and restrictions contained in its debt agreements;   


 
•
 
 the cost and form of payment for pending or anticipated acquisitions and growth or expansion projects and the timing and commercial success of any
such initiatives; and   


 
•
 
 unanticipated costs to operate Boardwalk Pipeline’s business, such as for maintenance and regulatory compliance. 
There is no guarantee that unitholders will receive quarterly distributions from Boardwalk Pipeline. Boardwalk Pipeline’s
distributions are determined each quarter by the board of directors of its general partner based on the board’s consideration of Boardwalk Pipeline’s financial position, earnings, cash flow, current and future business needs and other
relevant factors at that time. Boardwalk Pipeline may reduce or eliminate distributions at any time it determines that its cash reserves are insufficient or are otherwise required to fund current or anticipated future operations, capital
expenditures, acquisitions, growth or expansion projects, debt repayment or other business needs.  Boardwalk Pipeline may not be
successful in executing its strategy to grow and diversify its business.  Boardwalk Pipeline relies primarily on
the revenues generated from its long-haul natural gas transportation and storage services. As a result, negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on Boardwalk Pipeline’s financial condition and results of
operations than if it maintained more diverse assets. Boardwalk Pipeline is pursuing a strategy of growing and diversifying its business through acquisition and development of assets in complementary areas of the midstream energy sector, such as
liquids transportation and storage assets, among others. Boardwalk Pipeline’s ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to close and execute on accretive acquisitions and projects.
Boardwalk Pipeline may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. Any such transactions involve potential risks that may include, among other things: 
 


 
•
 
 the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; 
 


 
•
 
 inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies; 
 


 
•
 
 a decrease in Boardwalk Pipeline’s liquidity as a result of using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project;
  


 
•
 
 a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if it incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project;
  


 
•
 
 inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; 
 


 
•
 
 an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets;
  


 
•
 
 unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and 
 


 
•
 
 changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals. 
   36 




Table of Contents

 Additionally, acquisitions contain the following risks: 
 


 
•
 
 an inability to integrate successfully the businesses Boardwalk Pipeline acquires; 
 


 
•
 
 the assumption of unknown liabilities for which it is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies
may exclude from coverage;   


 
•
 
 limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and 
 


 
•
 
 customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. 
There is no certainty that Boardwalk Pipeline will be able to complete these acquisitions or projects on schedule, on budget or at all. 
Boardwalk Pipeline may not be able to replace expiring gas storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be
able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to a sustained narrowing of price spreads between time periods and reduced volatility which adversely affect Boardwalk Pipeline’s storage services. 
Boardwalk Pipeline owns and operates substantial natural gas storage facilities. The market for the storage and PAL services
that it offers is impacted by the factors and market conditions discussed above for Boardwalk Pipeline’s transportation services, and is also impacted by natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time
period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. Market conditions have caused a sustained narrowing of time period price spreads and a sustained decline in the price volatility of natural gas, which has adversely impacted the
rates Boardwalk Pipeline can charge for its storage and PAL services and the value associated with these services, especially when compared to previous historical levels. These market factors and conditions have adversely impacted Boardwalk
Pipeline’s business.  Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive
regulation by FERC, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. FERC’s rate-making policies could limit its ability to recover the full cost of
operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return.  Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas
transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by FERC, including the types and terms of services Boardwalk Pipeline may offer to its customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or
abandonment of services or facilities, recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. FERC action in any of these areas could adversely affect Boardwalk Pipeline’s ability to compete for business, construct new facilities,
offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. This regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to FERC’s regulations. FERC can
also deny Boardwalk Pipeline the right to remove certain facilities from service.  FERC also regulates the rates Boardwalk
Pipeline can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. For cost-based services, FERC establishes both the maximum and minimum rates Boardwalk Pipeline can charge. The basic elements that FERC considers are the costs of
providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. Boardwalk Pipeline may not be able to earn a return or
recover all of its costs, including certain costs associated with pipeline integrity activities, through existing or future rates. FERC can challenge the existing rates on any of Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipelines. Such a challenge against
Boardwalk Pipeline could adversely affect its ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to
recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. 
   37 




Table of Contents

 Risks Related to Us and Our Subsidiaries Generally 
In addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our
subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information
technology and compliance with environmental laws.  Acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. 
Future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory
military and other action by the United States and its allies, could have a significant impact on the assets and businesses of certain of our subsidiaries. CNA issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. Terrorist acts or
the threat of terrorism, including increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of oil and gas, could affect the market for Diamond Offshore’s drilling services and Boardwalk Pipeline’s
transportation, gathering and storage services. In addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm Loews Hotels. While our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to
secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. 
Changes in tax laws of jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries operate could adversely impact us. 
Changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws applicable to us or our subsidiaries could materially and adversely impact our
and our subsidiaries’ tax liability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including the amount of cash our subsidiaries have available to distribute to their shareholders, including us. In particular, potential changes to
tax laws governing tax credits or relating to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds, foreign earnings and publicly traded partnerships could have such adverse effects. 
Our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. 
The businesses operated by our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental
regulations which impose or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. Governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. Risks faced by our
subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following:  CNA. The insurance industry is subject
to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of CNA’s policyholders and third-party claimants rather than its investors. Each jurisdiction in which CNA does business
has established supervisory agencies that regulate its business, generally at the state level. Any changes in federal regulation could also impose significant burdens on CNA. In addition, the Lloyd’s marketplace sets rules under which its
members, including CNA’s Hardy syndicate, operate.  These rules and regulations relate to, among other things, the
standards of solvency (including risk-based capital measures), government-supported backstops for certain catastrophic events (including terrorism), investment restrictions, accounting and reporting methodology, establishment of reserves and
potential assessments of funds to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers. 
Regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly
discriminatory. CNA may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible or restrict CNA from withdrawing from unprofitable lines of business or
unprofitable market areas. Each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. CNA’s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its
respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. 
   38 




Table of Contents

 Diamond Offshore. Certain countries are subject to
restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government or other governmental or international authorities. These restrictions, sanctions and embargoes prohibit or limit Diamond Offshore from participating in certain business
activities in those countries. Diamond Offshore’s operations are also subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous
materials, the remediation of contaminated properties and the protection of the environment. The offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, can be affected by
changes in tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. Diamond Offshore may be required to make significant expenditures for additional capital equipment or inspections and recertifications to comply with governmental laws and
regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to Diamond Offshore’s operating costs or result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or
may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity.  In addition, Diamond Offshore’s business is negatively impacted
when it performs certain regulatory inspections, which Diamond Offshore refers to as a 5-year survey, or special survey, that are due every five years for each of its rigs. These special surveys are generally performed in a shipyard and require
scheduled downtime, which can negatively impact operating revenue. Operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard, inspection costs incurred and repair and maintenance costs.
Repair and maintenance activities may result from the special survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. The number of rigs undergoing a 5-year survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter
to quarter. Diamond Offshore’s business may also be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between 5-year surveys. Intermediate surveys are generally less extensive in duration and scope than a
5-year survey. Although an intermediate survey normally does not require shipyard time, the survey may require some downtime for the rig. Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance as to the exact timing and/or duration of downtime associated with
regulatory inspections, planned rig mobilizations and other shipyard projects.  In the aftermath of the 2010 Macondo well
blowout and the subsequent investigation into the causes of the event, new rules were implemented for oil and gas operations in the GOM and in many of the international locations in which Diamond Offshore operates, including new standards for well
design, casing and cementing and well control procedures, equipment inspections and certifications, as well as rules requiring operators to systematically identify risks and establish safeguards against those risks through a comprehensive safety and
environmental management system (“SEMS”). New regulations may continue to be announced, including rules regarding drilling systems and equipment, such as blowout preventer and well control systems and lifesaving systems, as well as rules
regarding employee training, engaging personnel in safety management and requiring third party audits of SEMS programs. Such new regulations could require modifications or enhancements to existing systems and equipment, or require new equipment, and
could increase Diamond Offshore’s operating costs and cause downtime for its rigs if it is required to take any of them out of service between scheduled surveys or inspections, or if it is required to extend scheduled surveys or inspections, to
meet any such new requirements. Diamond Offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking, nor is it able to predict the future impact of these events on operations. Additional governmental regulations
concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of Diamond Offshore’s operations, and enhanced permitting requirements, as well as escalating costs borne by its
customers, could reduce exploration activity in the GOM and therefore demand for its services.  Governments in some
countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. The modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws
or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect Diamond Offshore’s operations by limiting drilling opportunities. 
Boardwalk Pipeline. Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to
extensive regulation by FERC and PHMSA of the DOT among other federal and state authorities. In addition to FERC rules and regulations related to the rates Boardwalk Pipeline can charge for its services, federal regulations extend to pipeline
safety, operating terms and conditions of service, the types of services Boardwalk Pipeline may offer, construction or abandonment of facilities, accounting and record keeping, and relationships and transactions

   39 




Table of Contents

 
with affiliated companies. These regulations can adversely impact Boardwalk Pipeline’s ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, including by increasing the lead times to
develop projects, offer new services, or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines.  Our subsidiaries face significant risks
related to compliance with environmental laws.  Our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure
related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, many of which have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for
environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. For example, Diamond Offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or
conditions caused by others. Boardwalk Pipeline is also subject to laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste,
requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release, requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. 
We and our subsidiaries are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. 
The U.S. Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) as well as some states and regional groupings of
states have in recent years considered legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”). In the absence of federal GHG-limiting legislation, the EPA had adopted rules under authority of the Clean Air Act that, among
other things, establish Potential for Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal,
or criteria, pollutant emissions, which reviews could require securing PSD permits at covered facilities emitting GHGs and meeting “best available control technology” standards for those GHG emissions. In addition, the EPA has adopted
rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the U.S., including, among others, onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In October 2015,
the EPA published a final reporting rule for certain onshore gathering and boosting systems consisting primarily of gathering pipelines, compressors and process equipment used to perform natural gas compression, dehydration and acid gas removal.
 Moreover, the EPA proposed in August 2015 rules that will establish emission standards for methane and volatile organic
compounds released from new and modified oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmissions facilities, as part of the current U.S. President administration’s efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and natural
gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. The EPA is expected to finalize those rules in 2016. Furthermore, the EPA has passed a rule, known as the Clean Power Plan, to limit GHGs from power plants, but on February 9, 2016, the U.S.
Supreme Court stayed this rule while it is being challenged in the federal D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. If this rule survives legal challenge, then depending on the methods used to implement this rule, it could reduce demand for the oil and
natural gas that Boardwalk Pipeline’s customers produce. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact businesses of our energy subsidiaries, any
such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of our energy subsidiaries. 
Any significant interruption in the operation of our facilities, systems and business functions or breach in our data security
infrastructure could result in a materially adverse effect on our operations.  We and our subsidiaries have become
more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. We are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our businesses. Any failure of our or our
subsidiaries’ computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. Computer and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable
or impaired from a variety of causes, including among others, storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, utility outages or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. In addition, it has been reported that
unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called “cyber attacks” on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt 
   40 




Table of Contents

 
computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. Any cyber attacks that affect our or our subsidiaries’ facilities could have a material adverse effect on our and their
business or reputation.  A significant breach of our data security infrastructure, resulting from actions by our
employees, vendors, third party administrators or by unknown third parties, that impacts our data framework or causes a failure to protect personal information of customers or employees may result in operational impairments and financial losses, as
well as significant harm to our reputation.  The foregoing risks relating to disruption of service, interruption of
operations and data loss could expose us to monetary and reputational damages. In addition, potential exposure includes substantially increased compliance costs and requires computer system upgrades and security related investments. The breach of
confidential information also could give rise to legal liability and regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Any such legal or regulatory action could have a material
adverse effect on our operations.  Loss of key vendor relationships or issues relating to the transitioning of vendor relationships
could result in a materially adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries’ operations.  We and our subsidiaries
rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services. If one or more key vendors
becomes unable to continue to provide products or services at the requisite level, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may
experience a material adverse effect on our or their business or reputation.  We could incur impairment charges related to the
carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries regularly evaluate
their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. Most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of
offshore drilling equipment at Diamond Offshore, pipeline and storage assets at Boardwalk Pipeline and hotel properties owned by Loews Hotels. 
In particular, Diamond Offshore is currently experiencing declining demand for certain offshore drilling rigs as a result of
excess rig supply in the industry due, in part, to the numerous newly constructed rigs that have or will enter the market. As a result, these rigs will negatively impact utilization which could result in Diamond Offshore incurring additional asset
impairments, rig retirements and/or rigs being scrapped.  We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when
events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. The goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit’s fair value as of the testing date. We calculate the fair value of our
reporting units (each of our principal operating subsidiaries) based on estimates of future discounted cash flows, which reflect management’s judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, future industry
conditions and operations and other factors. Asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. The use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the
need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken.  We are a holding company and derive substantially all of
our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries.  We rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from
our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. Our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or
otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such
subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of CNA, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan
agreements. Claims 
   41 




Table of Contents

 
of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. 
We could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. 
As a result of our ownership of Lorillard, Inc. (“Lorillard”) prior to the separation of Lorillard from us in 2008
(the “Separation”), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the Separation. In the Separation
Agreement entered into between us and Lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the Separation, Lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to Lorillard’s tobacco business, including
liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. An adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to
us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and equity. We do not expect that the Separation will alter the legal exposure of either entity with respect to
tobacco-related claims. We do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims. 
Item 1B