ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.We caution that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this report or made by our company or our management involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Words such as “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “planned,” “potential” and any similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Risks associated with the following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect our financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this report or otherwise made by our company or our management:•general economic conditions, consumer confidence, consumer spending patterns and market disruptions including severe weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards, terrorist activities, financial crises, political crises or other major events, or the prospect of these events;•the seasonality of our business;•the dependence on a high volume of mall traffic and the availability of suitable store locations on appropriate terms;•our ability to grow through new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions;•our ability to successfully expand into global markets and related risks;•our relationships with independent licensees and franchisees;•our direct channel businesses;•our failure to protect our reputation and our brand images;•our failure to protect our trade names, trademarks and patents;•the highly competitive nature of the retail industry generally and the segments in which we operate particularly;•consumer acceptance of our products and our ability to keep up with fashion trends, develop new merchandise and launch new product lines successfully;•our ability to source, distribute and sell goods and materials on a global basis, including risks related to:•political instability;•duties, taxes and other charges;•legal and regulatory matters;•volatility in currency exchange rates;•local business practices and political issues;•potential delays or disruptions in shipping and transportation and related pricing impacts;•disruption due to labor disputes; and•changing expectations regarding product safety due to new legislation;•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•stock price volatility;•our failure to maintain our credit rating;•our ability to service or refinance our debt;•our ability to retain key personnel;•our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees and manage labor-related costs;•the inability of our manufacturers to deliver products in a timely manner and meet quality standards;•fluctuations in product input costs;•fluctuations in energy costs;•increases in the costs of mailing, paper and printing;•claims arising from our self-insurance;•our ability to implement and maintain information technology systems and to protect associated data; 6Table of Contents•our failure to maintain the security of customer, associate, supplier or company information;•our failure to comply with regulatory requirements;•tax matters; and•legal and compliance matters.We are not under any obligation and do not intend to make publicly available any update or other revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this report to reflect circumstances existing after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of future events even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized.The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements.” These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K, other filings or in any other discussions of our business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.In addition to the other information set forth in this report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not our only risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that are currently deemed to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition in a material way.Our net sales, profit results and cash flow are sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, general economic conditions, consumer confidence, spending patterns and weather or other market disruptions.Our net sales, profit, cash flows and future growth may be adversely affected by negative local, regional, national or international political or economic trends or developments that reduce the consumers’ ability or willingness to spend, including the effects of national and international security concerns such as war, terrorism or the threat thereof. In addition, market disruptions due to severe weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards or other major events or the prospect of these events could also impact consumer spending and confidence levels. In particular, our operating results are impacted by factors in the U.S., Canadian and U.K. economies. Purchases of women’s intimate and other apparel, beauty and personal care products and accessories often decline during periods when economic or market conditions are unsettled or weak. In such circumstances, we may increase the number of promotional sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located, particularly in markets where we have multiple stores, could adversely affect our business. For example, heavy snowfall, rainfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our net sales, operating income, cash and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis.We experience major seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the fourth quarter holiday season. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Seasonal fluctuations also affect our cash and inventory levels, since we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling inventory, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices or may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our net sales depend on a volume of traffic to our stores and the availability of suitable lease space.Most of our stores are located in retail shopping areas including malls and other types of retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those retail areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area, including “destination” retail stores, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Sales volume and retail traffic may be adversely affected by economic downturns in a particular area, competition from other retail and non-retail attractions and other retail areas where we do not have stores. 7Table of ContentsPart of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs.These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our ability to grow depends in part on new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions.Our continued growth and success will depend in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. Accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to partner with developers and landlords to obtain suitable sites for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel and the integration of new stores into existing operations. There can be no assurance we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our plans for international expansion include risks that could adversely impact our results and reputation.We intend to further expand into international markets through license and franchise agreements and/or company-owned stores. The risks associated with our expansion into international markets include difficulties in attracting customers due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brands, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and seasonal differences in the market. Further, entry into other markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with an established market presence. Other risks include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, political instability and foreign governmental regulation.We also have risks related to identifying suitable partners as licensees, franchisees or in a similar capacity. In addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store openings and sales. We cannot ensure the profitability or success of our expansion into international markets.In addition, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our licensees, franchisees and wholesalers could take actions that could harm our business or brand images.We have global representation through independently owned stores operated by licensees, franchisees and wholesalers (“partners”). Although we have criteria to evaluate and select prospective partners, the level of control we can exercise over our partners is limited and the quality and success of their operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Our partners may not have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and may not hire and train qualified store managers and other personnel. Our brand image and reputation may suffer materially and our sales could decline if our partners do not operate successfully. These risks could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our direct channel businesses includes risks that could have an adverse effect on our results.Our direct operations are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results. Risks include, but are not limited to, the difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through our direct channels; domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it overseas outside our control; the maintenance and security of the Internet infrastructure; the failure of and risks related to the systems that operate our websites and the related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and risks related to the fulfillment of direct-to-consumer orders such as not adequately predicting customer demand or otherwise failing to maintain efficient and uninterrupted order-taking and fulfillment operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 8Table of ContentsOur failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand images.Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brand images. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.Our failure to adequately protect our trade names, trademarks and patents could have a negative impact on our brand images and limit our ability to penetrate new markets.We believe that our trade names, trademarks and patents are important assets and an essential element of our strategy. We have obtained or applied for federal registration of these trade names, trademarks and patents and have applied for or obtained registrations in many foreign countries. There can be no assurance that we will obtain such registrations or that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If any third-party copies our products or our stores in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, it could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and reputation as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our inability to compete favorably in our highly competitive segment of the retail industry could negatively impact our results.The sale of women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care products and accessories is highly competitive. We compete for sales with a broad range of other retailers, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. In addition to the traditional store-based retailers, we also compete with direct marketers or retailers that sell similar lines of merchandise and who target customers through online channels. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, quality, image presentation and fulfillment are all competitive factors in both the store-based and online channels.Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available. In many cases, our competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same shopping malls as our stores. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls.Increased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our inability to remain current with fashion trends and launch new product lines successfully could negatively impact the image and relevance of our brands.Our success depends in part on management’s ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing fashion preferences and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in advance of the actual time of sale to the customer. Customer demands and fashion trends change rapidly. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or we misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower, potentially resulting in significant amounts of unsold finished goods inventory. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions or price markdowns. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and reputation as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be adversely impacted by our inability to adequately source, distribute and sell merchandise and other materials on a global basis.We source merchandise and other materials directly in international markets and in our domestic market. We distribute merchandise and other materials globally to our partners in international locations and to our stores. Many of our imports and exports are subject to a variety of customs regulations and international trade arrangements, including existing or potential duties, tariffs or safeguard quotas. We compete with other companies for production facilities. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business on a global basis, such as:•political instability;•imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports or exports; 9Table of Contents•legal and regulatory matters;•volatility in currency exchange rates;•local business practice and political issues (including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards) which may result in adverse publicity or threatened or actual adverse consumer actions, including boycotts;•potential delays or disruptions in shipping and transportation and related pricing impacts;•disruption due to labor disputes; and•changing expectations regarding product safety due to new legislation.New initiatives may be proposed impacting the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions which, if enacted, could impact our trading relationships with vendors or other parties in such countries.In addition, significant health hazards, environmental hazards or natural disasters may occur which could have a negative effect on the economies, financial markets and business activity of international markets. Our future performance will depend upon these and the other factors listed above which are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets, and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although we use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the short-term negative impact of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations. Hedging would generally not be effective in offsetting the long-term impact of sustained shifts in foreign exchange rates on our business results.  As a result, the fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our stock price may be volatile.Our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in our actual or projected performance or the financial performance of other companies in the retail industry. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies.Our failure to maintain our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital and could increase our interest expense.The credit ratings agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. A deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in a downgrade of our credit rating. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to our company or our industry and could limit our access to funding for our operations. We are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes constrained, our interest costs will likely increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, changes to our credit rating could affect our interest costs.We may be unable to service or refinance our debt.Some of our debt agreements contain covenants which require maintenance of certain financial ratios and also, under certain conditions, restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common shares and make other restricted payments as defined in those agreements. Our cash flow from operations provides the primary source of funds for our debt service payments. If our cash flow from operations declines, we may be unable to service or refinance our current debt.We may be unable to retain key personnel.We believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and experience of our senior executives, including Leslie H. Wexner, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Competition for key personnel in the retail industry is intense and our future success will also depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain other qualified key personnel. 10Table of ContentsWe may be unable to attract, develop and retain qualified employees and manage labor-related costs.We believe our competitive advantage is providing a positive, engaging and satisfying experience for each individual customer, which requires us to have highly trained and engaged employees. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store personnel and talented merchants. The turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas. Competition for such qualified individuals or changes in labor and healthcare laws could require us to incur higher labor costs. Our inability to recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may delay planned openings of new stores or affect the speed with which we expand. Delayed store openings, significant increases in employee turnover rates or significant increases in labor-related costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our manufacturers may not be able to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner and meet quality standards.We purchase products through contract manufacturers and importers and directly from third-party manufacturers. Factors outside our control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. In addition, quality problems could result in a product liability judgment or a widespread product recall that may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on product availability, competition reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if the product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertions could adversely impact our reputation with existing and potential customers and our brand image. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in product input costs.Product input costs, including manufacturing labor and raw materials, fluctuate. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our production costs. We may not be able to, or may elect not to, pass these increases on to our customers which may adversely impact our profit margins. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in energy costs.Energy costs have fluctuated dramatically in the past. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase products from our manufacturers. A continual rise in energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be adversely impacted by increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing.Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs will affect the cost of our order fulfillment and catalogue and promotional mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting. Future paper and postal rate increases could adversely impact our earnings if we are unable to recover these costs or if we are unable to implement more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We self-insure certain risks and may be adversely impacted by unfavorable claims experience.We are self-insured for various types of insurable risks including associate medical benefits, workers’ compensation, property, general liability and automobile up to certain stop-loss limits. Claims are difficult to predict and may be volatile. Any adverse claims experience could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We significantly rely on our ability to implement and sustain information technology systems and to protect associated data.Our success depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. Our information technology systems, as well as those of our service providers, are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunication failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers and those of our service providers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Additionally, these types of problems could result in a breach of confidential customer, merchandise, financial or other important information which could result in damage to our reputation and/or litigation. The increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices may also heighten these and other operational  11Table of Contentsrisks.  Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems may nevertheless cause failures in our information technology systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to process orders and deliver products to the stores or impact our consumers' ability to access our websites in a timely manner or expose confidential customer, merchandise, financial or other important information could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In addition, we will make modifications and upgrades to the information technology systems for point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management and support systems including human resources and finance. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions. Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations.Our failure to maintain the security of customer, associate, supplier or company information could have a negative impact on our reputation and our results.Information systems are susceptible to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Any significant compromise or breach of our data security could significantly damage our reputation, cause the disclosure of confidential customer, associate, supplier or company information, cause our customers to stop shopping with us and result in significant legal, regulatory and financial liabilities and lost revenues. While we have implemented systems and processes to protect against unauthorized access to secured data and prevent data loss, there is no guarantee that these procedures are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches. The regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.  These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may fail to comply with regulatory requirements.We are subject to numerous regulatory requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable foreign and domestic laws and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation, market price of our common stock, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be adversely impacted by changes in taxation requirements.We are subject to income tax in local, national and international jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. The Company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties, changes in tax legislation or regulation or adverse outcomes of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be adversely impacted by certain compliance or legal matters.We, along with our third-party business partners, are subject to complex compliance and litigation risks. Actions filed against our Company from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, data privacy, securities, anti-corruption and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. Difficulty can exist in complying with sometimes conflicting regulations in local, national or foreign jurisdictions as well as new or changing regulations that affect how we operate. In addition, we may be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and shareholders that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, market price of our common stock, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.ITEM 1B