ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.We caution that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this report or made by our company or our management involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, our future performance and financial results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any such forward-looking statements. Words such as “estimate,” “project,” “plan,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “planned,” “potential” and any similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. Risks associated with the following factors, among others, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect our financial performance and actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements included in this report or otherwise made by our company or our management:•general economic conditions, consumer confidence, consumer spending patterns and market disruptions including severe weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards, terrorist activities, financial crises, political crises or other major events, or the prospect of these events;•the seasonality of our business;•the dependence on mall traffic and the availability of suitable store locations on appropriate terms;•our ability to grow through new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions;•our ability to successfully expand internationally and related risks;•our relationships with independent franchise, license and wholesale partners;•our direct channel businesses;•our ability to protect our reputation and our brand images;•our ability to attract customers with marketing, advertising and promotional programs;•our ability to protect our trade names, trademarks and patents;•the highly competitive nature of the retail industry and the segments in which we operate;•consumer acceptance of our products and our ability to keep up with fashion trends, develop new merchandise and launch new product lines successfully;•our ability to source, distribute and sell goods and materials on a global basis, including risks related to:•political instability, significant health hazards, environmental hazards or natural disasters;•duties, taxes and other charges;•legal and regulatory matters;•volatility in currency exchange rates;•local business practices and political issues;•potential delays or disruptions in shipping and transportation and related pricing impacts;•disruption due to labor disputes; and•changing expectations regarding product safety due to new legislation;•our geographic concentration of supplier and distribution facilities in central Ohio;•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•stock price volatility;•our ability to pay dividends and related effects;•our ability to maintain our credit rating;•our ability to service or refinance our debt;•our ability to retain key personnel;•our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees and manage labor-related costs;•the ability of our manufacturers to deliver products in a timely manner, meet quality standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations;•fluctuations in product input costs; 6Table of Contents•fluctuations in energy costs;•increases in the costs of mailing, paper and printing;•claims arising from our self-insurance;•our ability to implement and maintain information technology systems and to protect associated data;•our ability to maintain the security of customer, associate, supplier or company information;•our ability to comply with regulatory requirements;•legal and compliance matters; and•tax matters.We are not under any obligation and do not intend to make publicly available any update or other revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this report to reflect circumstances existing after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of future events even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized.The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements.” These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K, other filings or in any other discussions of our business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.In addition to the other information set forth in this report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not our only risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that are currently deemed to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition in a material way.Our net sales, profit results and cash flows are sensitive to, and may be affected by, general economic conditions, consumer confidence, spending patterns, weather or other market disruptions.Our net sales, profit, cash flows and future growth may be affected by negative local, regional, national or international political or economic trends or developments that reduce the consumers’ ability or willingness to spend, including the effects of national and international security concerns such as war, terrorism or the threat thereof. In addition, market disruptions due to severe weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards or other major events or the prospect of these events could also impact consumer spending and confidence levels. Purchases of women’s intimate and other apparel, beauty and personal care products and accessories often decline during periods when economic or market conditions are unsettled or weak. In such circumstances, we may increase the number of promotional sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located, particularly in markets where we have multiple stores, could adversely affect our business. For example, heavy snowfall, rainfall or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our net sales, operating income, cash and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis.We experience major seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the fourth quarter holiday season. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Seasonal fluctuations also affect our cash and inventory levels, since we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the holiday season selling period. If we are not successful in selling inventory, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices or may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our net sales depend on a volume of traffic to our stores and the availability of suitable lease space.Most of our stores are located in retail shopping areas including malls and other types of retail centers. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those retail areas. Our stores benefit from the ability of the retail center and other attractions in an area, including “destination” retail stores, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Sales volume and retail traffic may be adversely affected by factors that we cannot control, such as economic downturns or changes in consumer demographics in a particular area, competition from internet and other retailers and other retail areas where we do  7Table of Contentsnot have stores, the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the shopping areas where our stores are located and the deterioration in the financial condition of the operators of the shopping areas or developers in which our stores are located. Part of our future growth is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investment and lease costs providing the opportunity to earn a reasonable return. We cannot be sure as to when or whether such desirable locations will become available at reasonable costs. Some of our store locations, such as our Victoria's Secret flagship stores, require significant upfront capital investment and have material lease commitments. Additionally, we are dependent upon the suitability of the lease spaces that we currently use. The leases that we enter into are generally non-cancelable leases with initial terms of ten years. If we determine that it is no longer economical to operate a store and decide to close it, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term.These risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our ability to grow depends in part on new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions.Our continued growth and success will depend in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. Accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to partner with developers and landlords to obtain suitable sites for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel and the integration of new stores into existing operations. There can be no assurance we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our plans for international expansion include risks that could impact our results and reputation.We intend to further expand into international markets, including mainland China and other international markets, through partner arrangements and/or company-owned stores. The risks associated with our expansion into international markets include difficulties in attracting customers due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brands, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and seasonal differences in the market. Further, entry into other markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with an established market presence. Other risks include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, disruptions or delays in shipments, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, political instability and foreign governmental regulation.  Such expansions will also have upfront investment costs that may not be accompanied by sufficient revenues to achieve typical or expected operational and financial performance.We also have risks related to identifying suitable partners. In addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store openings and sales and their compliance with federal and local law. We cannot ensure the profitability or success of our expansion into international markets.Further, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. See “Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations” below. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our licensees, franchisees and wholesalers could take actions that could harm our business or brand images.We have global representation through independently owned stores operated by our partners. Although we have criteria to evaluate and select prospective partners, the level of control we can exercise over our partners is limited, and the quality and success of their operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. For example, our partners may not have the business acumen or financial resources necessary to successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and may not hire and train qualified store managers and other personnel. Our brand image and reputation may suffer materially, and our sales could decline if our partners do not operate successfully. These risks could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our direct channel businesses include risks that could have an effect on our results.Our direct operations are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results. Risks include, but are not limited to, the difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through our direct channels; domestic or international resellers purchasing merchandise and reselling it outside our control; our ability to anticipate and implement innovations in  8Table of Contentstechnology and logistics in order to appeal to existing and potential customers who increasingly rely on multiple channels to meet their shopping needs; the failure of and risks related to the systems that operate our web infrastructure, websites and the related support systems, including computer viruses, theft of customer information, privacy concerns, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and risks related to the fulfillment of direct-to-consumer orders such as not adequately predicting customer demand. Our failure to maintain efficient and uninterrupted order-taking and fulfillment operations could also have a material adverse effect on our results.  The satisfaction of our online customers depends on their timely receipt of merchandise.  If we encounter difficulties with the distribution facilities, or if the facilities were to shut down for any reason, including as a result of fire or other natural disaster or work stoppage, we could face shortages of inventory; incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers; and cause customer dissatisfaction.  Any of these issues could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our ability to protect our reputation could have a material effect on our brand images.Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brand images. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity, including information publicized through traditional or social media platforms and similar venues such as blogs, websites and other forums, may affect our reputation and brand and, consequently, reduce demand for our merchandise, even if such publicity is unverified or inaccurate. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls, to maintain the security of customer, associate, supplier or company information or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.If our marketing, advertising and promotional programs are unsuccessful, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected.Customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands and the location of and service offered in our stores. Although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers through various media including television, social media, database marketing and print, some of our competitors may expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. Our programs may not be effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Our ability to adequately protect our trade names, trademarks and patents could have an impact on our brand images and ability to penetrate new markets.We believe that our trade names, trademarks and patents are important assets and an essential element of our strategy. We have obtained or applied for federal registration of these trade names, trademarks and patents and have applied for or obtained registrations in many foreign countries. There can be no assurance that we will obtain such registrations or that the registrations we obtain will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. In particular, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If any third-party copies our products or our stores in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, it could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and reputation as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our ability to compete favorably in our highly competitive segment of the retail industry could impact our results.The sale of women’s intimate and other apparel, personal care products and accessories is highly competitive. We compete for sales with a broad range of other retailers, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores and discount retailers. In addition to the traditional store-based retailers, we also compete with direct marketers or retailers that sell similar lines of merchandise and who target customers through online channels. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, assortment, quality, image presentation and fulfillment are all competitive factors in both the store-based and online channels.Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources available. In many cases, our competitors sell their products in stores that are located in the same shopping malls and centers as our stores. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls and centers. 9Table of ContentsIncreased competition could result in price reductions, increased marketing expenditures and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our ability to remain current with fashion trends and launch new product lines successfully could impact the image and relevance of our brands.Our success depends in part on management’s ability to effectively anticipate and respond to changing fashion preferences and consumer demands and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in advance of the actual time of sale to the customer. Customer demands and fashion trends change rapidly. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends or we misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales will be lower, potentially resulting in significant amounts of unsold finished goods inventory. In response, we may be forced to increase our marketing promotions or price markdowns. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and reputation as well as our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be impacted by our ability to adequately source, distribute and sell merchandise and other materials on a global basis.We source merchandise and other materials directly in international markets and in our domestic market. We distribute merchandise and other materials globally to our partners in international locations and to our stores. Many of our imports and exports are subject to a variety of customs regulations and international trade arrangements, including existing or potential duties, tariffs or safeguard quotas. We compete with other companies for production facilities. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business on a global basis.  For example:•political instability, significant health hazards, environmental hazards or natural disasters which could negatively affect international economies, financial markets and business activity;•imposition of new or retaliatory trade duties, sanctions or taxes and other charges on imports or exports;•evolving or complex legal and regulatory matters;•volatility in currency exchange rates;•local business practice and political issues (including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards) which may result in adverse publicity or threatened or actual adverse consumer actions, including boycotts;•potential delays or disruptions in shipping and transportation and related pricing impacts;•disruption due to labor disputes; and•changing expectations regarding product safety due to new legislation or other factors.We also rely upon third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments, including shipments to and from our distribution centers, our stores and to our customers.  Our utilization of these delivery services for shipments is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact our transportation providers' ability to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs.Our future performance will depend upon these and the other factors listed above which are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We rely on a number of supplier and distribution facilities located in the same vicinity, making our business susceptible to local and regional disruptions or adverse conditions.To achieve the necessary speed and agility in producing our beauty, personal care and home fragrance products, we rely heavily on supplier and distribution facilities in close proximity to our headquarters in central Ohio.  As a result of geographic concentration of the supplier and distribution facilities that we rely upon, our operations are susceptible to local and regional factors, such as accidents, system failures, economic and weather conditions, natural disasters, demographic and population changes, and other unforeseen events and circumstances. Any significant interruption in the operations of these facilities could lead to inventory issues or increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 10Table of ContentsFluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial condition and results of operations.We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, our royalty arrangements are calculated based on sales in local currency and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Although we use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the short-term negative impact of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations. Hedging would generally not be effective in offsetting the long-term impact of sustained shifts in foreign exchange rates on our business results. As a result, the fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our stock price may be volatile.Our stock price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in our actual or projected performance or the financial performance of other companies in the retail industry. Any guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable. If, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside investment analysts or others, our stock price could be adversely affected.  Investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk.In addition, the stock market may experience price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance.If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends at intended levels, our reputation and stock price may be harmed. Our dividend program requires the use of a portion of our cash flow. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our Board of Directors may, at its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time. Any failure to pay dividends after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation, investor confidence in us and negatively impact our stock price.Our ability to maintain our credit rating could affect our ability to access capital and could increase our interest expense.The credit ratings agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. A deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in a downgrade of our credit rating. Any negative ratings actions could constrain the capital available to our company or our industry and could limit our access to funding for our operations. We are dependent upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes constrained, our interest costs will likely increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, changes to our credit rating could affect our future interest costs.We may be impacted by our ability to service or refinance our debt.We currently have substantial indebtedness. Some of our debt agreements contain covenants which require maintenance of certain financial ratios and also, under certain conditions, restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common shares and make other restricted payments as defined in those agreements. Our cash flow from operations provides the primary source of funds for our debt service payments. If our cash flow from operations declines, we may be unable to service or refinance our current debt.We may be impacted by our ability to recruit, train and retain key personnel.We believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and experience of our senior executives, including Leslie H. Wexner, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition for key personnel in the retail industry is intense, and our future success will also depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain other qualified key personnel.We may be impacted by our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees and manage labor-related costs.We believe our competitive advantage is providing a positive, engaging and satisfying experience for each individual customer, which requires us to have highly trained and engaged employees. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store personnel and talented merchants. The turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high, and qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these  11Table of Contentspositions may be in short supply in some areas. Competition for such qualified individuals or changes in labor and healthcare laws could require us to incur higher labor costs. Our inability to recruit a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may delay planned openings of new stores or affect the speed with which we expand. Delayed store openings, significant increases in employee turnover rates or significant increases in labor-related costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be impacted by our manufacturers' ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely manner, meet quality standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations.We purchase products through contract manufacturers and importers and directly from third-party manufacturers. Factors outside our control, such as manufacturing or shipping delays or quality problems, could disrupt merchandise deliveries and result in lost sales, cancellation charges or excessive markdowns. In addition, quality problems could result in a product liability judgment or a widespread product recall that may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on product availability, competition reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if the product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertions could adversely impact our reputation with existing and potential customers and our brand image. Our business could also suffer if our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our third-party manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their practices. The violation of labor, environmental or other laws by a third-party manufacturer used by us, or the divergence of a third-party manufacturer’s or partner’s labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical or appropriate, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment or finished products to us or damage our reputation.These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our results may be affected by fluctuations in product input costs.Product input costs, including manufacturing, freight, labor and raw materials, fluctuate. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our production costs. We may not be able to, or may elect not to, pass these increases on to our customers which may adversely impact our profit margins. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our results may be affected by fluctuations in energy costs.Energy costs have fluctuated dramatically in the past. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase products from our manufacturers. A continual rise in energy costs could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be impacted by increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing.Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs will affect the cost of our order fulfillment and promotional mailings. We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting. Future paper and postal rate increases could adversely impact our earnings if we are unable to recover these costs or if we are unable to implement more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We self-insure certain risks and may be impacted by unfavorable claims experience.We are self-insured for various types of insurable risks including associate medical benefits, workers’ compensation, property, general liability and automobile up to certain stop-loss limits. Claims are difficult to predict and may be volatile. Any adverse claims experience could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 12Table of ContentsWe significantly rely on our ability to implement and sustain information technology systems and to protect associated data.Our success depends, in part, on the secure and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems. Our information technology systems, as well as those of our service providers, are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunication failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers and those of our service providers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Additionally, these types of problems could result in a breach of confidential customer, merchandise, financial or other important information which could result in damage to our reputation and/or litigation. The increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices may also heighten these and other operational risks.  Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems may nevertheless cause failures in our information technology systems. Sustained or repeated system disruptions that interrupt our ability to process orders and deliver products to the stores, impact our consumers' ability to access our websites in a timely manner or expose confidential customer, merchandise, financial or other important information could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In addition, from time to time, we make modifications and upgrades to the information technology systems for point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management and support systems including human resources and finance. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including not accurately capturing data and system disruptions. Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our ability to maintain the security of customer, associate, supplier or company information could have an impact on our reputation and our results.Information systems are susceptible to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Any significant compromise or breach of our data security could significantly damage our reputation with our customers, employees, investors and other third parties; cause the disclosure of confidential customer, associate, supplier or company information; cause our customers to stop shopping with us; and result in significant legal, regulatory and financial liabilities and lost revenues.  While we have implemented systems and processes to protect against unauthorized access to our information systems and prevent data loss, there is no guarantee that these procedures are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches. In addition to our own networks and databases, we use third-party service providers to store, process and transmit certain of this information on our behalf. Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and use reasonable security measures, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a security breach will not occur in their systems. We have confidential security measures in place to protect our physical facilities and information technology systems from attacks. Despite these measures, we may be vulnerable to targeted or random security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or similar events.  The regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs, such as costs related to organizational changes, implementing additional protection technologies, training employees and engaging consultants. Additionally, we could incur lost revenues and face increased litigation as a result of any potential cybersecurity breach.  These risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be impacted by our ability to comply with regulatory requirements.We are subject to numerous regulatory requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable foreign and domestic laws and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”), among others. Although we have put in place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors, vendors, licensees, franchisees and suppliers could take actions that violate these laws and regulations.  Any violations of such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our reputation, market price of our common stock, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13Table of ContentsIt can be difficult to comply with sometimes conflicting regulations in local, national or foreign jurisdictions as well as new or changing regulations. Also, changes in such laws could make operating our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. For example, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs for certain merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. It may be difficult for us to oversee regulatory changes impacting our business and our responses to changes in the law could be costly and may negatively impact our operations.We may be adversely impacted by certain compliance or legal matters.We, along with third parties we do business with, are subject to complex compliance and litigation risks. Actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, tort, intellectual property, customer, employment, wage and hour, data privacy, securities, anti-corruption and other claims, including purported class action lawsuits. The cost of defending against these types of claims against us or the ultimate resolution of such claims, whether by settlement or adverse court decision, may harm our business. Further, potential claimants may be encouraged to bring suits based on a settlement from us or adverse court decisions against us. We cannot currently assess the likely outcome of such suits, but if the outcome were negative, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In addition, we may be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and shareholders, that could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, market price of our common stock, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be impacted by changes in taxation requirements.We are subject to income tax in local, national and international jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes in many jurisdictions. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties, changes in tax legislation or regulation or adverse outcomes of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.ITEM 1B