. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risk. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. We have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flow and earnings. As a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. Our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. Market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. To a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. All of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-third of our sales. Demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. Several factors, including a weak global economy, a depressed housing market, or low consumer confidence could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. Short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends.  Many consumers continue to postpone spending on larger ticket items such as bedding and furniture.  If economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations. Costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. Raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. We typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs generally move with the market. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. Conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. Reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings. Steel is our principal raw material. The global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. This volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. In late 2013, steel costs increased unexpectedly, and the timing of the increase (late in the year) resulted in a concentration of LIFO expense in the fourth quarter.  We are implementing price increases in early 2014 to recover these higher costs. Our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. We experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in recent years. As a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference in the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod).  In the later half of 2013, metal margins within our rod production operation were compressed due to downward pressure on steel rod prices from Chinese imports.  Also, if scrap costs 17Table of ContentsPART Iraise more rapidly than the price of steel rod, the metal margins will be compressed.  In either instance, compressed metal margins could negatively impact our result of operations. Higher raw material costs in recent years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. This primarily impacted our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials product mix and decreased profit margins. This trend could further negatively impact our results of operations. Competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings.  We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well. We face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia and Europe. In addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. They may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. If we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. Premium non-innerspring mattresses (those that have either a foam or air core) have experienced rapid growth in the U.S. bedding market in recent years. While still a relatively small portion of the total market in units (approximately 10%-12%), these products represent a much larger portion of the total market in dollars (approximately 25%-30%) due to their higher average selling prices. If sales of foam or air core mattresses continue to grow appreciably, it could reduce our market share in the U.S. bedding market, and negatively impact our sales and earnings. The revocation of duties on imports of innersprings from China, South Africa and Vietnam could reduce our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings.For the past five years, there have been antidumping duty orders on innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam, ranging from 116% to 234%.  The orders remain in effect while the Department of Commerce (DOC) and the International Trade Commission (ITC) conduct separate reviews to determine whether to extend the duties through early 2019 (for China) and late 2018 (for South Africa and Vietnam).  If it is determined that the revocation of the duties would likely lead to the continuation or recurrence of dumping of innersprings (determined by the DOC)  and material injury to the U.S. innerspring industry (determined by the ITC), the duties will be extended.  We believe that, without the extension, it is likely that dumping will recur and the U.S. innerspring industry will be materially injured.   As a result, we are actively participating in the DOC and ITC reviews.  We expect the DOC and ITC to issue their respective determinations in March 2014.  If the DOC and ITC revoke the duties it could reduce our share in the innersprings market, our sales, profit margins and earnings.   Our goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings.  A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. At December 31, 2013, goodwill and other intangible assets represented approximately $1.1 billion, or approximately 36% of our total assets. In addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled approximately $696 million, or approximately 22% of total assets.  If actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our earnings. We review our ten reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in June as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. In addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance 18Table of ContentsPART Iindicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. The annual goodwill impairment review performed in June 2013 indicated no goodwill impairments, but fair market value for one of our ten reporting units (Store Fixtures) exceeded book value by approximately 18%. The goodwill associated with the Store Fixtures reporting unit was approximately $109 million at December 31, 2013.  The unit is dependent upon capital spending by retailers on both new stores and remodeling of existing stores.  Although 2012 performance was better than expected, 2013 fell short of expectations.  The predictability of future results is less certain than that of our other reporting units due to the project nature of this business.  If we are not able to achieve projected performance levels in Store Fixtures, future impairments could be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings.   We had been reviewing the Commercial Vehicle Products (CVP) group, which is part of the Specialized Products segment, as part of our ongoing strategic planning process with one possible strategic alternative being to divest all or part of the group.  During this process, an unexpected decline in CVP group sales, earnings and operating cash flows occurred. Consequently, we received a lower than previously expected indication of value relating to the potential disposition of the business. As a result, we conducted an interim valuation of the CVP group goodwill and other long-lived assets and, in December, concluded that an impairment charge was required primarily relating to goodwill of the CVP group.  We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $63 million in the fourth quarter.  A further decline in the CVP group business could result in future impairments which would negatively impact our earnings. We are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. In 2013, 28% of our sales were generated by international operations. The revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. Further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. Foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results. Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. We receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of, and collections from, our customers, and manage the accounting for, and payment to, our vendors. Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. If these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected.We may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Economic uncertainty or tax law changes could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets.19Table of ContentsPART IWe are exposed to legal contingencies related to various lawsuits and other claims that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our earnings and cash flows.We are a defendant in various legal proceedings, including antitrust lawsuits related to the alleged price fixing of prime foam and carpet underlay products, and other proceedings and claims.  When it is probable, in management's judgment, that we may incur monetary damages or other costs resulting from these proceedings or other claims, and we can reasonably estimate the amounts, we record appropriate liabilities in the financial statements and make charges against earnings.  If our assumptions or analysis regarding these contingencies is incorrect, we could incur damages which could have a material negative impact on our earnings and cash flows.   Item 1B