. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risk. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report are risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC.  Costs of raw materials could negatively affect our profit margins and earnings. Raw material cost increases (and our ability to respond to cost increases through selling price increases) can significantly impact our earnings. We typically have short-term commitments from our suppliers; therefore, our raw material costs generally move with the market. When we experience significant increases in raw material costs, we typically implement price increases to recover the higher costs. Inability to recover cost increases (or a delay in the recovery time) can negatively impact our earnings. Conversely, if raw material costs decrease, we generally pass through reduced selling prices to our customers. Reduced selling prices combined with higher cost inventory can reduce our segment margins and earnings.  Steel is our principal raw material. The global steel markets are cyclical in nature and have been volatile in recent years. This volatility can result in large swings in pricing and margins from year to year. Our operations can also be impacted by changes in the cost of fabrics and foam scrap. We experienced significant fluctuations in the cost of these commodities in recent years.16Table of ContentsPART I     As a producer of steel rod, we are also impacted by volatility in metal margins (the difference between the cost of steel scrap and the market price for steel rod). If market conditions cause scrap costs and rod pricing to change at different rates (both in terms of timing and amount), metal margins could be compressed and this would negatively impact our results of operations. Higher raw material costs in past years led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components were replaced with lower cost components. This primarily impacted our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials product mix and decreased profit margins. If this was to occur again it could negatively impact our results of operations. Competition could adversely affect our market share, sales, profit margins and earnings.  We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We believe that most companies in our lines of business compete primarily on price, but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality and performance.  We face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components and finished products from Asia and Europe. In addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. They may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates. If we are unable to purchase key raw materials, such as steel, at prices competitive with those of foreign suppliers, our ability to maintain market share and profit margins could be harmed by foreign competitors. We are exposed to litigation contingencies that, if realized, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We previously disclosed that we were a party to a series of civil antitrust lawsuits involving the sale of polyurethane foam products.  During 2015, we settled the substantial majority of these cases but there are a few cases yet to be resolved.  Although we deny liability in all threatened or pending litigation proceedings and believe that we have valid bases to contest all claims made against us, we have, at December 31, 2015, an aggregate litigation contingency accrual of $8 million. The accrual amount decreased from the prior year primarily due to cash payments for litigation settlements of $82 million. Based on current facts and circumstances, aggregate reasonably possible (but not probable) losses in excess of the recorded accruals for litigation contingencies (which include Brazilian VAT, antitrust, patent, and other matters) are estimated to be $25 million.  If our assumptions or analysis regarding these contingencies is incorrect, or if facts and circumstances change, we could realize loss in excess of the recorded accruals (and in excess of the $25 million referenced above) which could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For more information regarding our legal contingencies, see Note T on page 114 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.We are exposed to foreign currency risk which may negatively impact our competitiveness, profit margins and earnings. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant percentage of our total sales, which exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations. In 2015, 31% of our sales were generated by international operations. The revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies; however, certain of our operations experience currency-related gains and losses where sales or purchases are denominated in currencies other than their local currency. Further, our competitive position may be affected by the relative strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. Foreign currency exchange risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial results.17Table of ContentsPART IOur goodwill and other long-lived assets are subject to potential impairment which could negatively impact our earnings.  A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other long-lived assets, the carrying value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. At December 31, 2015, goodwill and other intangible assets represented $998 million, or 34% of our total assets. In addition, net property, plant and equipment and sundry assets totaled $658 million, or 22% of total assets.  If actual results differ from the assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill and long-lived asset valuation calculations, we could incur impairment charges, which could negatively impact our earnings. We review our reporting units for potential goodwill impairment in June as part of our annual goodwill impairment testing, and more often if an event or circumstance occurs making it likely that impairment exists. In addition, we test for the recoverability of long-lived assets at year end, and more often if an event or circumstance indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. If we are not able to achieve projected performance levels, future impairments could be possible, which would negatively impact our earnings.   For more information regarding potential goodwill and other long-lived asset impairment, refer to Note  C on page 79 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We rely on information systems to obtain, process, analyze and manage data, as well as to facilitate the manufacture and distribution of inventory to and from our facilities. We receive, process and ship orders, manage the billing of, and collections from, our customers, and manage the accounting for, and payment to, our vendors. We expect to transition certain corporate-level shared service systems primarily related to our domestic U.S. operations for general ledger, sales invoicing, cash application, purchasing and accounts payable disbursements to a new platform during the last half of 2016 and the first half of 2017. Technology failures or security breaches of a new or existing infrastructure could create system disruptions or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If this occurs, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial loss because of lost or misappropriated information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities or new discoveries in the field of cryptography will not compromise our technology protecting information systems. If these systems are interrupted or damaged by these events or fail for any extended period of time, then our results of operations could be adversely affected.We may not be able to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet depending upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet is dependent upon the amount and source of future taxable income. Economic uncertainty or tax law changes could impact our underlying assumptions on which valuation reserves are established and negatively affect future period earnings and balance sheets.We have exposure to economic and other factors that affect market demand for our products which may negatively impact our sales, operating cash flow and earnings. As a supplier of products to a variety of industries, we are adversely affected by general economic downturns. Our operating performance is heavily influenced by market demand for our components and products. Market demand for the majority of our products is most heavily influenced by consumer confidence. To a lesser extent, market demand is impacted by other broad economic factors, including disposable income levels, employment levels, housing turnover and interest rates. All of these factors influence consumer spending on durable goods, and drive demand for our components and products. Some of these factors also influence business spending on facilities and equipment, which impacts approximately one-quarter of our sales.18Table of ContentsPART I Demand weakness in our markets can lead to lower unit orders, sales and earnings in our businesses. Several factors, including a weak global economy, low consumer confidence, or a depressed housing market could contribute to conservative spending habits by consumers around the world. Short lead times in most of our markets allow for limited visibility into demand trends. If economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, operating cash flows and results of operations.Item 1B