Item 1A.Risk Factors.The following are what we believe to be the principal risks that might materially affect us and our businesses.Market and Economic RisksThe homebuilding recovery has continued its progression at a slow and steady pace, however a downturn in the recovery or decline in economic conditions could adversely affect our operations.In fiscal 2014, we experienced a steadily improving housing market, and in our business saw a strong recovery in the number of new sales contracts signed and improved gross margins compared with the prior year. However, demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. The economic downturn that began in 2007 was one of the most severe in U.S. history, and severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. We cannot predict whether the recovery in the housing market will continue. If the recovery were to slow or stop, or economic conditions were to worsen, the demand for new homes would likely decline, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.For several years we had to take significant write-downs on the carrying values of land we owned and of option expenses. A future decline in land values could result in similar write-downs.Inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. There are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or lots at a cost we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. Also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. As a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for a lower than anticipated profit margin or we may have to record inventory impairment charges with regard to our developed and undeveloped land and lots. When demand for homes fell during the recent recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. If market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity.Inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs that we may not be able to recover.Inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. In addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on demand for our homes. In a highly inflationary environment, depending on industry and other economic conditions, we may be precluded from raising home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins. Although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we have been experiencing increases in the prices of labor and materials and there could be a significant increase in inflation in the future.9Table of ContentsHomebuilding, mortgage lending, distressed asset investing and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results.Homebuilding. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable land, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. We also compete with sellers of existing homes, including foreclosed homes, and with rental housing. These competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prices, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. Competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable costs or terms.Lennar Financial Services. Our Lennar Financial Services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local banks and other financial institutions, many of which are far larger, and some of which are subject to fewer government regulations, than our financial services subsidiaries. Mortgage lenders who are subject to fewer regulations than we are or have greater access to low cost funds or different lending criteria than we do may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can.Lennar Multifamily. Our multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators across the United States. We also compete in securing capital, partners and equity, and in securing tenants with the large supply of already existing rental apartments. These competitive conditions could negatively impact the ability of the ventures in which we are participating to find renters for the apartments they are building or the prices for which those apartments can be rented. Rialto. There are many firms and investment funds that compete with Rialto in trying to acquire distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the recent recession. At least some of the firms with which Rialto competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of funds that is lower than that of Rialto or the funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for Rialto or the funds it manages. Our RMF business competes with national and regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate and non-bank lenders, many of which are far larger than RMF or have access to lower cost funds than we do.Operational RisksWe may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of warranty and liability claims made against us.As a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to warranty and construction defect claims. We are also subject to claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies are intended to protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. However, it is possible that this insurance will not be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims to which we are subject. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and policies that can be obtained are costly and often include exclusions based upon past losses those insurers suffered as a result of use of defective Chinese drywall and other products in homes we and many other homebuilders built. As a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases had to waive our customary insurance requirements, which increases our and our insurers’ exposure to claims and increases the possibility that our insurance will not be adequate to protect us for all the costs we incur.Products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business.We rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. Despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials, such as defective Chinese drywall that at one time was installed by subcontractors in homes built for us and for many other homebuilders in Florida and elsewhere. Although our subcontractors have principal responsibility for defects in the work they do, we have ultimate responsibility to the homebuyers. Defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. The cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers.We also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. When we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. However, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors already did.10Table of ContentsSupply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries.Increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. During 2014, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the homes. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass additional costs of materials and labor on to homebuyers.Reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs.We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. Depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. If the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional pre-construction costs and it may take longer for us to recover our costs.Increased demand for homes could require us to increase our corporate credit line, and our inability to do that could limit our ability to take full advantage of market opportunities.Our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. One of the ways we do this is with bank borrowings. At November 30, 2014, we had a $1.5 billion Credit Facility, subject in part to additional commitments. If market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding but we are not able to increase our Credit Facility or obtain funds from other types of financings, that could prevent us from taking full advantage of the enhanced market opportunities.Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable.We have a Credit Facility that is available for us to use to help finance our homebuilding, acquisitions and other activities. The agreement governing our Credit Facility (the “Credit Agreement”) makes it a default for us if we fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with covenants, including covenants regarding various financial ratios. In addition, our Lennar Financial Services segment has warehouse facilities to finance its lending activities and our Rialto segment has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. If we default under the Credit Agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. This could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. Further, Rialto's 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 contain restrictive covenants imposing operational and financial restrictions on our Rialto segment, including restrictions that may limit Rialto’s ability to sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, enter into transactions with affiliates or incur additional indebtedness. In addition, if we default under the Credit Agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could result in the amounts outstanding under our senior notes and convertible senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition.We have a substantial level of indebtedness which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities.As of November 30, 2014, our consolidated debt, excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities, was $5.2 billion. The indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes do not restrict the incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt by us, and the agreement governing our Credit Facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest or other amounts due on our indebtedness. Our reliance on debt to help support our operations exposes us to a number of risks, including:•we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing or on our variable rate indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our cash flows;•we may find it difficult to, or may be unable to, obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests;•we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments; 11Table of Contents•we may have reduced flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses or the industries in which they are conducted; •we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; and•we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. Our Lennar Financial Services segment and RMF have warehouse facilities that mature in 2015, and if we cannot renew or replace these facilities, we may have to reduce our mortgage lending activities.Our Lennar Financial Services segment has an aggregate committed and uncommitted amount under four warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $925 million as of November 30, 2014, all of which will mature during 2015. Our Lennar Financial Services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. In addition, RMF, the commercial mortgage lender in our Rialto segment, has an aggregate committed amount under two warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $650 million as of November 30, 2014 both of which will mature during 2015. RMF uses these facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. We expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. If we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our Lennar Financial Services segment and RMF, as applicable, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results.We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' failures to fulfill their obligations or decisions to act contrary to our wishes.In our Homebuilding and Lennar Multifamily segments, we participate in joint ventures in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base. In certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. If a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to bear more than our proportional share of the cost of fulfilling them.  For example, as part of our Lennar Multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we and the other venturers have assumed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs, which could make us and the other venture participants responsible for cost overruns. Although all the participants in a venture are normally responsible for sharing the costs of fulfilling obligations of that type, if some of the venture participants are unable or unwilling to meet their share of the obligations, we may be held responsible for some or all of the defaulted payments. In addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in most of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners when such action may be in our best interest. Several of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their loans. If any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans and to conduct the activities for which they were formed, which could adversely affect our financial position.Our new businesses may not be as successful as we anticipate, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses and adversely affect our operations.We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business opportunities. In July 2013, we began commercial mortgage loan origination activities through RMF. In addition, during 2012 and 2013, we began our Lennar Multifamily business in which we have invested substantial resources to participate in the development of multifamily rental properties. Further, under our Homebuilding umbrella, we are investing in a solar business and a business focused on the development, investment and management of commercial properties. As with any new businesses, these endeavors, and others we may undertake in the future, are likely to involve significant risks and uncertainties, including significant start-up costs and the possibility that the new businesses will not be profitable or will not generate the expected returns on our investments, and the new businesses may require attention from our senior management that reduces their ability to focus on our core activities.The loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our employees could negatively affect our business.Our success depends to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the Company for a significant number of years. If we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our operations could be negatively affected. Also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees and our inability to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12Table of ContentsOur access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings.Our corporate credit rating and ratings of our senior notes and convertible senior notes affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt. A substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes and convertible senior notes, of which we have $4.3 billion outstanding as of November 30, 2014. Among other things, we rely on proceeds of debt issuances to pay the principal of existing senior notes when they mature. Negative changes in the ratings of our senior notes could make it difficult for us to sell senior notes in the future and could result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates with regard to new senior notes we issue.Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries and increase costs of new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations.Many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods, wildfires and severe weather. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. If our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected.If our homebuyers are not able to obtain suitable financing, that would reduce demand for our homes and our home sales revenues.Many purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price of the homes they purchase. The uncertainties in the mortgage markets, including the tightening of credit standards and increased government regulation, could adversely affect the ability of potential homebuyers to obtain financing for a home purchase, thus preventing them from purchasing our homes. Changes made by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHA/VA to sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. Principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. In addition, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including proposals that they reduce or terminate their role as the principal sources of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. It is not clear how, if Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac curtail their secondary market mortgage loan purchases, the liquidity they provide would be replaced. There is a substantial possibility that substituting an alternate source of liquidity would increase mortgage interest rates, which would increase the buyer's effective cost of the homes we sell, and therefore could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations.Changes in tax laws can increase the after tax cost of owning a home, and further tax law changes could adversely affect demand for the homes we build.Under current tax law certain significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s federal, and in some cases state, tax liability. However, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which was signed into law in January 2013, resulted in higher income tax rates and limits the amount of mortgage interest individuals can deduct in computing their income tax liability. The limit on deductibility of mortgage interest can increase the after-tax cost of owning a home for some individuals. Any additional increases in personal income tax rates and/or additional tax deduction limits could adversely impact demand for new homes, including homes we build, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our Lennar Financial Services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes or by a slowdown in mortgage refinancings.Approximately 57% of the mortgage loans made by our Lennar Financial Services segment in 2014 were made to buyers of homes we built. Therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this segment of our business. In addition, the revenues of our Lennar Financial Services segment would be adversely affected by a decrease in refinance transactions, such as the decrease that we experienced during the first half of fiscal 2014. If our ability to sell mortgages into the secondary market is impaired, that could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate.Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. If we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations.13Table of ContentsIf real estate Rialto acquired through foreclosures is not properly valued when it is acquired, we could be required to take valuation charge-offs, which would reduce our earnings.When a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. The book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to its updated market value (or its updated market value less estimated selling costs if the foreclosed property is classified as held-for-sale), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. If the revised valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods. Material charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition.The ability of our Rialto segment to profit from the investments it makes may depend to a significant extent on its ability to manage resolutions of distressed mortgages and other real estate related assets.A principal factor in a prospective purchaser's decision regarding the price it will pay for a portfolio of mortgage loans or other real estate related assets is the cash flow the prospective purchaser expects the portfolio to generate. The cash flow a portfolio of distressed mortgage loans and related assets will generate can be affected by the way the assets in the portfolio are managed. We believe the backgrounds and experience of the personnel in our Rialto segment enable the Rialto segment to generate better cash flows from the distressed assets it manages than what is generally expected with regard to similar assets. When Rialto decides whether it or a fund it manages should purchase particular distressed assets and what it or the fund should be willing to pay for them, one consideration is whether, and to what extent, Rialto thinks it will be able to obtain above average returns in resolving the assets. If Rialto is not able to achieve its anticipated returns, it or the fund it manages will not realize the expected return on its investment.Regulatory RisksWe may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. We are subject with regard to almost all of our activities to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. Laws and regulations, and policies under or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, change frequently. Our businesses could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our businesses.We may be adversely impacted by laws and regulations directed at the financial industry.New or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance focused on the financial industry may have adverse effects on aspects of our businesses. For example, in October 2014, final rules were promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act that requires mortgage lenders or third-party B-piece buyers to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. We have determined that these rules do not affect our residential mortgage lending operations at this time; however, the new rules may adversely impact our commercial mortgage lending operations in our RMF business. While we are still assessing the impact of the new rules on the market, we believe that the rules may reduce the price of commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") and limit the overall volume of CMBS related loan purchases, which could impact the financial results of our RMF business. In addition, if our residential mortgage lending operations became subject to these rules in the future, that would substantially increase the amount we would have to invest in our mortgage lending operations and increase our risks with regard to loans we originate and sell in the secondary mortgage market.Governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results.We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development, homebuilding and apartment development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. We are also subject to determinations by governmental authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services with regard to particular residential communities. New housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. In addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. Any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction.We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. In some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. These permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be 14Table of Contentsopposed or challenged by local governments, environmental advocacy groups, neighboring property owners or other possibly interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in injunctions, civil penalties, remediation expenses, and other costs. In addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for unlawful environmental conditions on property we own which we did not create. We are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. In addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and loan servicing. The impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our homebuyers’ costs of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our homebuyers’ access to some types of loans.Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. Budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter. Government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our businesses that can be significant.We can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control.Although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations or governmental guidelines. When we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, including practices relating to homes, buildings or multifamily rental properties we build or finance, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. However, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place.Our ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state laws.Our mortgage loans typically permit us to accelerate the debt upon default by the borrower. The courts of all states will enforce acceleration clauses in the event of a material payment default, subject in some cases to a right of the court to revoke the acceleration and reinstate the mortgage loan if a payment default is cured. The equity courts of a state, however, may refuse to allow the foreclosure of a mortgage or to permit the acceleration of the indebtedness in instances in which they decide that the exercise of those remedies would be inequitable or unjust or the circumstances would render an acceleration unconscionable. Further, the ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state and federal laws. For example, Nevada has enacted a law providing that if the amount an assignee of a mortgage note paid to acquire the note is less than the face amount of the note, the creditor cannot recover more through a deficiency action than the amount it paid for the note. If the Nevada law is upheld, or similar laws are enacted in other jurisdictions, it could materially and adversely affect our ability and the ability of funds we manage to profit from purchases of distressed debt.Other RisksOur results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor.In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to legal claims by homebuyers, borrowers against whom we have instituted foreclosure proceedings, persons with whom we have land purchase contracts and a variety of other persons.  We establish reserves against legal claims and we believe that, in general, they will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. However, if the amounts we are required to pay as a result of claims against us substantially exceed the sums anticipated by our reserves, the need to pay those amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods when we are required to make the payments.15Table of ContentsInformation technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business.We rely extensively on information technology (IT) systems, including Internet sites, data hosting facilities and other hardware and platforms, some of which are hosted by third parties, to assist in conducting our businesses. Our IT systems, like those of most companies, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, hackers, and other security issues. Moreover, our computer systems, like those of most companies, are subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, and to cyber or phishing-attacks. Although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and taken other actions to minimize the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, computer intrusion efforts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and even the enhanced controls we have installed might be breached. If our IT systems cease to function properly, we could suffer interruptions in our operations. If our cyber-security is breached, unauthorized persons may gain access to proprietary or confidential information, including information about purchasers of our homes or borrowers from our mortgage lending subsidiaries. This could damage our reputation and require us to incur significant costs to repair or restore the security of our computer systems.Increases in the rate of cancellations of home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business.Our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our homebuyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. We have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. In some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local laws, the home buyer’s inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. If there is a downturn in the housing market, or if mortgage financing becomes even less available than it currently is, more homebuyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria.There is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. The future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations.Expansion of our services and investments into international markets through our Rialto segment subjects us to risks inherent in international operations.In December 2014, Fund II, of which our Rialto segment owns an interest and for which it performs asset management services, acquired an interest in a joint venture which holds real estate assets in Spain. Expansion of our services and investments into Spain and any expansion into other international markets in the future, could result in operational problems not typically experienced in the United States. Our activities outside the United States will be subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, and competitive disadvantages due to our need to comply with U.S. anti-bribery laws. There also are tax consequences of doing business outside the U.S., both under U.S. tax laws and under the tax laws of the countries in which we do business.We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if we are unable to utilize our net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards.At November 30, 2014, we had state tax NOL carryforwards totaling $113.8 million that will expire between 2015 and 2034. As of November 30, 2014, state tax NOL carryforwards totaling $2.0 million will expire over the next twelve months, if sufficient taxable income is not generated in the applicable states to utilize the net operating losses. At November 30, 2014, we had a valuation allowance of $8.0 million against our state NOL carryforwards because we believe it is more likely than not that a portion of our state NOL carryforwards will not be realized due to the limited carryforward periods in certain states. If we are unable to use our NOLs, we may have to record charges or reduce our deferred tax assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We experience variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results.We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. As a result of such variability, our short-term performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in 16Table of Contentsthe second half of our fiscal year. Our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including, among others, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems.We have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders.Stuart A. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities, of Class B, and to a lesser extent Class A, common stock that enables Mr. Miller to cast approximately 44% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock combined. That effectively gives Mr. Miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. Mr. Miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. Also, because of his voting power, Mr. Miller could be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires.The trading price of our Class B common stock normally is lower than that of our Class A common stock.The only difference between our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock is that the Class B common stock entitles the holders to 10 votes per share, while the Class A common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. However, the trading price of the Class B common stock on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") normally is lower than the NYSE trading price of our Class A common stock. We believe this is because only a relatively small number of shares of Class B common stock are available for trading, which reduces the liquidity of the market for our Class B common stock to a point where many investors are reluctant to invest in it. The limited liquidity could make it difficult for a holder of a significant number of shares of our Class B common stock to dispose of the stock without materially reducing the trading price of the Class B common stock.Changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities.There is growing concern from many members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused, or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Government mandates, standards or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts could result in restrictions on land development in certain areas and increased energy, transportation and raw material costs, or cause us to incur compliance expenses that we will be unable fully to recover, which could reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations.Item 1B