Item 1A.Risk Factors.The following are what we believe to be the principal risks that might materially affect us and our businesses.Homebuilding Market and Economic RisksDemand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control. The economic downturn has adversely affected our operations, and a slow recovery or decline in economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our operations.Demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. The economic downturn severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. Currently, unemployment is above historically normal levels. High unemployment affects us in two ways. Not only are people who are not employed or are concerned about loss of their jobs unlikely to purchase new homes, but they may be forced to sell the homes they own or lose their homes in foreclosure, which reduces demand for the homes we build by increasing the overall housing inventory. In addition, many lenders have limited their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. Interest rates on residential mortgage loans have increased during 2013 and could continue to increase, and this, together with the reluctance of many lenders to make residential mortgage loans, and possible effects of new governmental regulations, could reduce demand for the homes we sell.  Unemployment, lack of consumer confidence and other adverse consequences of the recent economic recession could delay a full recovery in real estate markets.  If economic conditions were to worsen, the demand for homes could decline, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.We have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of land we own and of our investments in unconsolidated entities, and a future decline in land values could result in additional write-downs.Inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding business. There are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land and if housing demand declines, we may own land or lots at a cost we will not be able to recover fully, or on which we cannot build and sell homes profitably. Also, there can be significant fluctuations in the value of our owned undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories related to changes in market conditions. As a result, our deposits for building lots controlled under option or similar contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes or land for a lower than anticipated profit margin or we may have to record inventory impairment charges with regard to our developed and undeveloped land and lots. When demand for homes fell during the recent recession, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. If market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could again be required to make significant write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity.Inflation may adversely affect us by increasing costs that we may not be able to recover.Inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials and labor. In addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on demand for our homes. In a highly inflationary environment, depending on industry and other economic conditions, we may be precluded from raising home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which could reduce our profit margins. Moreover, with inflation, the costs of capital will likely increase and the purchasing power of our cash resources can decline. Although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we have begun to experience increases in the prices of labor and materials and some economists predict that government spending programs and other factors could lead to significant inflation in the future. Homebuilding, financial services and multifamily rentals are very competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business or financial results.The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable properties, financing, raw materials, skilled management and labor resources.  We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. We also compete with the resale of existing homes, including 11Table of Contentsforeclosed homes and rental housing. These competitive conditions can reduce the number of homes we deliver, negatively impact our selling prics, reduce our profit margins, and cause impairments in the value of our inventory or other assets. Competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable costs or terms, or cause delays in the construction of our homes. Our financial services business competes with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage banks and other financial institutions, many of which are far larger, and some of which are subject to fewer government  regulations than our financial services subsidiaries. Mortgage lenders who are subject to fewer regulations or have greater access to low cost capital or different lending criteria may be able to offer more attractive financing to potential customers than we can.The multifamily rental business competes with other multifamily apartment developers and operators including REITs across the United States. We also compete in securing tenants with the large supply of already existing rental apartments.  These competitive conditions could reduce the number of apartments that can be rented, and negatively impact our ability to retain renters, and maintain or increases rental prices. Operational RisksWe may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of warranty and liability claims made against us.As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We are also subject to liability claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. However, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors' insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly and often include new exclusions based upon past losses such as defective Chinese drywall. As a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements, and assumed responsibility for certain risks and liabilities of those subcontractors. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly, and we may suffer significant losses as a result of claims made against us for which we waived an insurance requirement or were unable to obtain insurance.Products supplied to us and work done by subcontractors can expose us to warranty costs and other risks that could adversely affect our business.We rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. Despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials, such as defective Chinese drywall that at one time was installed by subcontractors in homes built for us and for many other homebuilders in Florida and elsewhere. When we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. Defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. The cost of complying with our warranty obligations in these cases may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repair from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers.We also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with all applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. When we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. However, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors had been doing.Supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries.Increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. During 2013, we experienced increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor.12Table of ContentsReduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs.We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. Depending on the stage of development a land parcel is in when we acquire it, these may include costs of preparing land, finishing and entitling lots, installing roads, sewers, water systems and other utilities, taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. If the rate at which we sell and deliver homes slows, or if we delay the opening of new home communities, we may incur additional costs and it will take a longer period of time for us to recover our costs.We have substantially reduced our corporate credit line, which could limit our ability to take full advantage of market opportunities.Our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. Prior to 2008, our credit line was as high as $3.1 billion. However, because of the decline in our land purchasing, development and building activities, and our ability to obtain debt and equity financing through the capital markets, we gradually reduced the credit line, and in February 2010, we terminated it (although, we established and continued to maintain letter of credit facilities). In 2012, we established a new credit line, and in 2013, we increased our credit line to $950 million, subject to additional commitments,which were obtained subsequent to November 30, 2013. The proceeds available under the Credit Facility, which are subject to specified conditions for borrowing, may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. However, this credit line is still substantially less than the credit line we maintained in and prior to 2008. If market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding but we are not able to significantly increase our credit facility, the relatively small size of our credit facility might prevent us from taking full advantage of market opportunities.Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by our credit facilities could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable.We have a credit facility that is available for us to use to help finance our homebuilding, acquisitions and other activities. The agreement governing our credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) makes it a default for us to fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with covenants, including covenants regarding various financial ratios. In addition, our Financial Services segment has warehouse facilities to finance its lending activities and our Rialto segment has warehouse facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. If we default under the Credit Agreement or our warehouse facilities, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. This could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise, and restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future. Further, our 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 contain restrictive covenants imposing operational and financial restrictions on our Rialto segment, including restrictions that may limit Rialto’s ability to sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, enter into transactions with affiliates and incur additional indebtedness. In addition, if we default under the Credit Agreement or our warehouse facilities, it could result in the amounts outstanding under our senior notes and convertible senior notes to become immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition.We have a substantial level of indebtedness which may have an adverse effect on our business or limit our ability to take advantage of business, strategic or financing opportunities.As of November 30, 2013, our consolidated debt, excluding amounts outstanding under our credit facilities was $4.6 billion. The indentures governing the senior notes and convertible senior notes of Lennar Corporation do not restrict the incurrence of future secured or unsecured debt by us, and the agreement governing our Credit Agreement allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt.  Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest or other amounts due on our indebtedness. As a consequence of our indebtedness, (1) demands on our cash resources may increase, (2) we are subject to restrictive covenants that further limit our financial and operating flexibility and (3) we may choose to institute self-imposed limits on our indebtedness based on certain considerations including market interest rates, our relative leverage and our strategic plans. For example, as a result of our substantial level of indebtedness and the uncertainties arising in the credit markets and the U.S. economy:•we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •we may have to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing or on our variable rate indebtedness if interest rates rise, thereby reducing our cash flows;•we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements that would be in our best long-term interests;•we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the cash flow available to fund operations and investments; •we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or in the industry; •we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry that are less leveraged; 13Table of Contents•we may be required to sell debt or equity securities or sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. In addition, fluctuations in market interest rates may increase interest expense relating to our floating rate indebtedness, which we expect to incur under our Credit Facility, and may make it difficult to refinance our existing indebtedness at a commercially reasonable rate or at all. There is no guarantee that in the future we will be able to refinance all of our indebtedness as it matures, or that if we do, that the replacement indebtedness will have fixed interest rates or that interest rates on the replacement indebtedness will be as low as the rates on our current indebtedness. Our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our credit ratings.Our corporate credit rating and ratings on our senior notes and convertible senior notes and our current credit condition affect, among other things, our ability to access new capital, especially debt. A substantial portion of our access to capital is through the issuance of senior notes and convertible senior notes, of which we have $4.0 billion outstanding as of November 30, 2013. Negative changes in these ratings may result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any new debt. If our credit ratings are lowered or rating agencies issue adverse commentaries in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In particular, a weakening of our financial condition, including a significant increase in our leverage or decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds, result in credit rating downgrades or changes in rating agencies' view of our outlook, or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing.The warehouse repurchase credit facilities of our Financial Services segment will mature in 2014 and 2015 and the warehouse repurchase credit facilities of RMF will mature in 2015, and we may be unable to renew or replace these facilities on as favorable terms or at all.Our Financial Services segment has an aggregate committed and uncommitted amount under three warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $725 million and $100 million, respectively, as of November 30, 2013 that will mature during 2014 and 2015. The Financial Services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors. In addition, RMF in our Rialto segment has an aggregate committed amount under two warehouse repurchase credit facilities that totaled $500 million as of November 30, 2013 that will mature during 2015. RMF uses these facilities to finance its mortgage origination activities. We expect these facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. If we were unable to renew or replace these facilities on favorable terms or at all when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our Financial Services segment and RMF, as applicable, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results.We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures with independent third parties and we can be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners' actions that are contrary to our instructions or failure to fulfill their obligations.We participate in joint ventures in order to acquire attractive land positions, to manage our risk profile and to leverage our capital base.  In certain circumstances, the joint venture participants, including ourselves, are required to provide guarantees of certain obligations relating to the joint ventures, such as completion and environmental guarantees. If a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of our partner's obligations at what can be a significant cost to us. For example, as part of our Multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we have assumed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs and we could be responsible for cost overruns.  In addition, because we do not have a controlling interest in some of the joint ventures in which we participate, we may not be able to sell assets, return invested capital or take other actions without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners when such action may be in our best interest. If the joint ventures or their participants do not honor their obligations or take actions that are contrary to our instructions, we may be required to expend additional resources or suffer losses, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial results. The unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements, and we may need to provide a portion of their required funds.Several of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their loans. If any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans and to conduct the activities for which they were formed, which could adversely affect our financial position.14Table of ContentsOur investments in new businesses may not be as successful as we anticipate, and could disrupt our ongoing businesses and adversely affect our operations. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business opportunities. In July 2013, we began commercial loan origination activities through RMF. The mortgage origination business represents a new business line for us distinct from the direct investments and investment management and asset management activities upon which our Rialto segment had previously focused. In addition, our Multifamily business, in which we develop multifamily rental properties, is a new business in which we have invested substantial resources. As new businesses, these endeavors and others in which we may invest may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, significant start-up costs, insufficient revenues to offset expenses associated with these new investments and inadequate return of capital on our investments, and may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.The loss of the services of certain of our senior management or a significant number of our employees could negatively affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon performance and active participation of our senior management. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining the services of senior management. If we were to lose any members of our senior management, we may not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our results of operations could be negatively affected. Further, the loss of a significant number of employees or our inability to hire a sufficient number of qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Financial Services segment can be adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes and a slowdown in refinance transactions.Approximately 52% of the mortgage loans made by our Financial Services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. Therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the revenues of this segment of our business. In addition, the revenues of our Financial Services segment would be adversely affected by a continuing or further decrease in refinance transactions, such as the decrease that we experienced during the second half of fiscal 2013. If our ability to resell mortgages is impaired, it could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long term investor in loans we originate.Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. The secondary mortgage market was severely impacted by the decline in property values between 2007 and 2011 and it has not recovered fully, even though property values in many areas of the country stabilized significantly, and rose during 2013. If we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations.Our Financial Services segment has received demands that it repurchase mortgage loans it sold in the secondary mortgage market and we may be required to repurchase loans in excess of amounts reserved.Particularly during 2009, 2010 and 2011, our Financial Services segment received demands that it repurchase certain loans that it had previously sold in the secondary mortgage market. The demands related primarily to loans originated during 2005 through 2007 and were frequently based on assertions that information borrowers gave our Financial Services segment was not accurate. In many instances, we have successfully disputed the claims. However, in some instances we have settled claims to maintain our business relationships with the claimants or to avoid litigation costs. In other instances, there are active disputes regarding certain loans. We have established a reserve based upon, among other things, an analysis of repurchase requests received, an estimate of potential repurchase claims not yet received and our actual past repurchases and losses through the disposition of loans we repurchased, as well as previous settlements. At November 30, 2013 and 2012, this reserve was $9.3 million and $7.3 million, respectively. If there is an unexpected increase in the amount of repurchase demands we receive that we believe we should settle, or if we are not able to resolve existing repurchase demands on a basis consistent with our experience to date, the cost to us with regard to the repurchase demands could exceed the reserve we have established.Although our investments in distressed real estate assets normally are acquired at significant discounts, if the real estate markets deteriorate significantly, we could suffer losses.The Rialto segment focuses on identifying and underwriting real estate related investment opportunities, making real estate related investments, directly or through funds they manage, and overseeing those investments, including in particular the workout of non-performing or underperforming loans and improvement and disposition of properties acquired through foreclosure or in a similar manner.  Investing in distressed debt and foreclosed properties presents many risks in addition to 15Table of Contentsthose inherent in normal lending activities, including the risk that the anticipated restructuring and recapitalization of the United States real estate markets will not be completed for many years, the risk that defaults on debt instruments in which the Rialto segment and the funds it manages and invest will be greater than anticipated and the risk that if the Rialto segment or any of the funds it manages has to liquidate its investments into the market, it will suffer losses in doing so. There is also the possibility that, even if the investments made by the Rialto segment or the funds it manages perform as expected, absence of a liquid market for these investments will result in a need to reduce the values at which they are carried on our financial statements.If Rialto's investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses and we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced.When a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. The book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property if classified as held-and-used, or the market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs if classified as held-for-sale (fair value), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. If the valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods. Material additional charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition.There is substantial competition for the types of investments on which our Rialto segment is focused, and this may limit the ability of the Rialto segment or the investment funds it manages to make investments on terms that are attractive to it.Our Rialto segment and its two largest funds have been focused in substantial part on investments in distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the dislocations during the last several years in the markets for real estate, mortgage loans and real estate related securities. Some of the opportunities to acquire distressed assets have arisen under programs involving co-investments with and financing provided by agencies of the Federal government. More recently, we have begun directly making mortgage loans secured by commercial real estate. There are many firms and investment funds that are trying to acquire the types of assets on which our Rialto segment and the investment funds it manages are focused, and it is likely that a significant number of additional investment funds will be formed in the future with the objective of acquiring those types of assets. In particular, there is an exception in the rules under the Dodd-Frank Act limiting banks’ investments in funds for investments in funds that are primarily engaged in purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages on and other interests in real estate, and there is another exception for investments in entities formed by the FDIC to facilitate the disposition of assets it acquires as a conservator or receiver. At least some of the firms with which the Rialto segment competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of capital that is lower than that of the Rialto segment or the investment funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for our Rialto segment or the investment funds it manages.We could be adversely affected by court and governmental responses to improper mortgage foreclosure procedures.During recent years it appears that mortgage lenders and mortgage loan servicers have in a number of instances failed to comply with the requirements for obtaining and foreclosing mortgage loans. Even if neither our Rialto segment nor any servicing organization it uses does anything improper in foreclosing mortgages held by the Rialto segment or entities it manages, reaction by courts and regulatory agencies against apparently widespread instances of improper mortgage foreclosure procedures could make it more difficult and more expensive for our Rialto segment to foreclose mortgages that secure loans that it or entities it manages own.The ability of our Rialto segment to profit from the investments it makes may depend to a significant extent on its ability to manage resolutions of distressed mortgages and other real estate related assets.A principal factor in a prospective purchaser's decision regarding the price it will pay for a portfolio of mortgage loans or other real estate related assets is the cash flow the prospective purchaser expects the portfolio to generate. The cash flow a portfolio of distressed mortgage loans and related assets will generate can be affected by the way the assets in the portfolio are managed. We believe the backgrounds and experience of the personnel in our Rialto segment will enable the Rialto segment to generate better cash flows from the distressed assets it manages than what is generally expected with regard to similar assets. When we decide whether to purchase particular distressed assets and what we or a fund we manage should be willing to pay for them, one consideration is whether, and to what extent, we think we will be able to obtain above average returns in resolving the assets.  If we are not able to achieve those above average returns, our results of operations could be adversely affected.The supply of real estate related assets available at discounts from normal prices will likely decrease if the real estate markets continue to improve, which could require our Rialto segment to change its investment strategy.A significant part of Rialto segment’s current strategy is to seek above normal risk adjusted returns for us and for the investment funds we manage by focusing on investments in real estate related assets that are available at below market prices because of the effects of the dislocations in the United States real estate markets over the past several years. A continued 16Table of Contentsrecovery of the real estate markets would probably benefit the investments we and the funds we manage have made, but it probably would substantially reduce or end the availability of the types of distressed asset investments we seek. We are currently beginning to engage in activities that are more suitable for periods of healthy real estate markets.  But those types of activities may not offer the same profit potential as investing in distressed real estate assets.  Restrictions in agreements related to Fund I and Fund II (the "Funds") could prevent the Rialto segment from making investments.The Rialto segment manages the Funds, which were formed to make investments in, among other things, distressed real estate related debt and foreclosed properties. In order to protect investors in the Funds against the possibility that we would keep attractive investment opportunities for ourselves instead of presenting them to the Funds, we agreed that we would not make investments that are suitable for the Funds except to the extent an Advisory Committee consisting of representatives of Fund I or Fund II investors decides that Fund I or Fund II should not make particular investments, and we will probably make similar commitments with regard to subsequent funds the Rialto segment creates. There is an exception that permits us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations. However, it is likely that for several years the restrictions will prevent the Rialto segment from making investments in distressed mortgage loans or foreclosed properties other than through Fund I or Fund II (of which we currently own approximately 10.7% and 9.0%, respectively), except to the extent the applicable Advisory Committee decides that a fund should not make particular investments.Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas, which could harm our sales and results of operations.Many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, floods and wildfires, and severe weather. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. If our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Regulatory RisksReduced availability of mortgage financing and increased interest rates could reduce the demand for the homes that we offer.Many purchasers of our homes obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price. Many lenders and other holders of mortgage loans have been adversely affected in recent years by a combination of reduced ability of homeowners to meet mortgage obligations and reduced value of the homes that secure mortgage loans.  Changes made by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHA/VA sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. Principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. Further, in January 2013, the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed regulations that could make it more difficult for some potential buyers to finance home purchases.  In addition, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including the length of time for which they may continue to exist and in what form they may operate during that period. These organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. Any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations. These changes in the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our homes, thus having a negative effect on demand for our homes.Further, while interest rates for home mortgage loans have increased during 2013, they are still generally low compared with historic norms. Mortgage interest rates could increase in the future, which could adversely affect the demand for our homes.  If interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance homes purchases is adversely affected, our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial position may be negatively affected.17Table of ContentsWe may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory changes. New or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance focused on the regulation of the financial industry, including those under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, may have adverse effects on our industry.  For example, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to promulgate rules requiring mortgage lenders to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. Those rules were adopted in December 2013, and appear to apply only to FDIC-insured depositories, bank holding companies and their affiliates.  However, the statutory provision may also apply to other large entities including our entities involved in mortgage origination and securitization activities. If we were required to retain a portion of the mortgages that we originate, that could have a significant adverse effect on the profitability of our mortgage financing activities.  Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations.  Our business could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or by our inability to comply with them without making significant changes in our business.Our ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state laws.Our mortgage loans typically permit us to accelerate the debt upon default by the borrower. The courts of all states will enforce acceleration clauses in the event of a material payment default, subject in some cases to a right of the court to revoke the acceleration and reinstate the mortgage loan if a payment default is cured. The equity courts of a state, however, may refuse to allow the foreclosure of a mortgage or to permit the acceleration of the indebtedness in instances in which they decide that the exercise of those remedies would be inequitable or unjust or the circumstances would render an acceleration unconscionable. Further, the ability to collect upon mortgage loans may be limited by the application of state and federal laws. For example, Nevada has enacted a law providing that if an assignee of a note secured by real property paid less than the face amount of the note, the creditor cannot recover more in a deficiency action than the amount it paid for the note. If the Nevada law is upheld, or similar laws are enacted in other jurisdictions, that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.Governmental regulations regarding land use and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects and adversely affect our business or financial results.We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development, homebuilding and apartment development process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if they are approved at all. We are subject to determinations by these authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads and other local services. New housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. In addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. Any of these can limit, delay, or increase the costs of land development or home construction.We are also subject to a significant number and variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. The impact of environmental laws often varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. In some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. These permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process.  Violations of environmental laws and regulations can result in civil penalties, remediation expenses, potential injunctions and other damages.  In addition, some environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damage on our property regardless of fault.We are also subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control.  In addition, our residential mortgage subsidiary is subject to various state and federal statutes, rules and regulations, including those that relate to licensing, lending operations and other areas of mortgage origination and financing. The impact of those statutes, rules and regulations can increase our home buyers’ cost of financing, and our cost of doing business, as well as restricting our home buyers’ access to some types of loans.Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and 18Table of Contentsland development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. Budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter. Government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our business that can be significant.We can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines.Although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. When we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of the practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. However, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place.Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Under current tax law and policy, certain significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual’s or households federal, and in some cases state, tax liability. However, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which was signed into law in January 2013 by the President resulted in higher income tax rates and limits the amount of tax deductions high-income individuals and households can utilize in computing their income tax liability. The changes limit the ability of high-income individuals and households to deduct certain itemized deductions such as home mortgage interest and real estate taxes, making the after-tax cost of owning a home higher than before such changes. Any additional increases in personal income tax rates and/or additional tax deduction limits or restrictions enacted at the federal or state levels, could adversely impact demand for and/or selling prices of new homes, including our homes, and could adversely affect our results of operations.Other RisksWe have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders.Stuart A. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities of Class B, and to a lesser extent Class A, common stock that enables Mr. Miller to cast approximately 44% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock combined. That effectively gives Mr. Miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. Mr. Miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations or to operate our business. Also, because of his voting power, Mr. Miller could be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires.The trading price of our Class B common stock is substantially less than that of our Class A common stock.The only difference between our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock is that the Class B common stock entitles the holders to 10 votes per share, while the Class A common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share. However, the trading price of the Class B common stock on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") normally is 20% to 30% lower than the NYSE trading price of our Class A common stock.We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if we are unable to utilize our net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards.As of November 30, 2013, our deferred tax assets, net, were $376.8 million. At November 30, 2013, we had federal tax effected NOL carryforwards totaling $88.1 million that may be carried forward up to 20 years to offset future taxable income and begin to expire in 2025. As of November 30, 2013,we need to generate $251.8 million of pre-tax earnings in future periods to realize all of our federal NOL carryforwards and an additional $399.1 million of pre-tax earnings to utilize our net federal deferred tax assets related to deductible temporary tax differences. At November 30, 2013, we had state tax effected NOL carryforwards totaling $143.6 million that may be carried forward from 5 to 20 years, depending on the tax jurisdiction, with losses expiring between 2013 and 2032. As of November 30, 2013, state tax effected NOL carryforwards totaling $2.7 million may expire over the next twelve months, if sufficient taxable income is not generated in the applicable states to utilize the net operating losses. At November 30, 2013, we had a valuation allowance of $10.6 million against our state NOL carryforwards 19Table of Contentsbecause we believe it is more likely than not that a portion of our state NOL carryforwards will not be realized due to the limited carryforward periods in certain states. If we are unable to use our NOLs, or use of our NOLs is limited, we may have to record charges or reduce our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Trading in our shares could substantially reduce our ability to use tax loss carryforwards. Under the Internal Revenue Code, if during any three year period there is a greater than 50% change of ownership of our stock by persons who own more than 5% of our stock (treating all under 5% stockholders as a single 5% stockholder), our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards would be limited to the market value of our Company at the time of the change in ownership times the long-term federal tax exempt rate. This change of ownership limitation can occur as a result of purchases and sales in the market by persons who become owners of more than 5% of our stock, even without anybody becoming a new majority owner. During the past three years, there have not been any significant changes in the holdings of our stock by 5% stockholders of which we are aware. However, it is possible that as a result of future stock trading, within a three-year period buyers could acquire in the market 5% or greater ownership interests in our stock totaling more than 50%. If that occurs, our ability to apply our tax loss carryforwards could become limited.Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business.We use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational and marketing activities and to maintain our business records. These information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced security breaches, cyber-attacks, significant systems failures and electrical outages in the past. A material network breach in the security of our information technology systems could include the theft of customer, employee or company data. A security breach or a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, adversely impact our sales and revenue and require us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these kinds of issues. The release of confidential information as a result of a security breach could also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals or business partners, or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a significant negative impact on our business. If we were to experience a security breach, cyber-attack, data theft or other significant systems failures, it could have a material and adverse effect on our operations.Increases in the rate of cancellations of existing home sale agreements could have an adverse effect on our business.Our backlog reflects agreements of sale with our home buyers for homes that have not yet been delivered. We have received a deposit from our home buyer for each home reflected in our backlog, and generally we have the right to retain the deposit if the home buyer does not complete the purchase. In some cases, however, a home buyer may cancel the agreement of sale and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit for reasons such as state and local law, the home buyer’s inability to obtain mortgage financing, his or her inability to sell his or her current home or our inability to complete and deliver the home within the specified time. If the current industry recovery does not continue or another decline in economic conditions occurs, or if mortgage financing becomes even less available than it currently is, more home buyers may cancel their agreements of sale with us, which would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, in accordance with our land investment criteria.There is strong competition among homebuilders for land that is suitable for residential development. The future availability of finished and partially finished developed lots and undeveloped land that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we could build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations.As competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. Any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. We may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins.20Table of ContentsOur cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected if legal claims are brought against us and are not resolved in our favor.Claims have been brought against us in various legal proceedings that have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Should such claims be resolved in an unfavorable manner or should additional claims be filed in the future, it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected.We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results.We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. As a result of such variability, our short-term performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results.  Our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second fiscal quarter and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. Our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a variety of both national and local factors, including, among others, periods of economic downturn in the industry, raw material and labor shortages, seasonal home buying patterns, the timing of home closings and land sales and weather-related problems.Changes in global or regional environmental conditions and governmental actions in response to such changes may adversely affect us by increasing the costs of or restricting our planned or future growth activities.There is growing concern from members of the scientific community and the general public that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases and other human activities have caused or will cause, significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. An increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions and environmental events could limit, delay and/or increase the costs to develop land and build new homes and reduce the value of our land and housing inventory in locations that become less desirable to consumers or blocked to development. Projected climate change, if it occurs, may exacerbate the scarcity of water and other natural resources in affected regions, which could limit, prevent or increase the costs of residential development in certain areas. In addition, government mandates, standards or regulations intended to mitigate or reduce greenhouse gas emissions or projected climate change impacts could result in prohibitions or severe restrictions on land development in certain areas, increased energy, transportation and raw material costs that make building materials less available or more expensive, or cause us to incur compliance expenses and other financial obligations to meet permitting or land development or home construction-related requirements that we will be unable to fully recover (due to market conditions or other factors), and reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely effect our consolidated financial statements, potentially to a material degree. As a result, climate change impacts, and laws and land development and home construction standards, and/or the manner in which they are interpreted or implemented, to address potential climate change impacts, could increase our costs and have a long-term adverse impact on our business and our operating results. Item 1B