Item 1A.Risk Factors.The following are what we believe to be the principal risks that might materially affect us and our businesses.Homebuilding Market and Economic RisksAlthough demand for new homes has begun strengthening, there continue to be factors that are adversely affecting demand and could lead to a return of the downturn that for several years severely reduced the number of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell themFrom 2007 at least until the second half of 2011, the homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn. This severely affected both the numbers of homes we could sell and the prices for which we could sell them. Beginning in 2010, our margins improved to closer to their historically normal levels, and beginning in the middle of 2011, demand for our homes began to increase in many of our communities. However, there continue to be factors that are adversely affecting demand for our homes, including limited availability of mortgage financing for potential homebuyers and a significant inventory of used homes, including foreclosed homes. If these or other factors caused demand for homes to return to their pre-2011 levels, we could have significant difficulty generating profits from our homebuilding activities.Demand for new homes is sensitive to economic conditions over which we have no control, such as the availability of mortgage financing and the level of employment.Demand for new homes is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels. Currently, unemployment is above historically normal levels and many lenders have limited their willingness to make, and tightened their credit requirements with regard to, residential mortgage loans. Regulations that have been proposed by the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could make it even more difficult for some potential home buyers to finance their purchases. Partially offsetting these factors, mortgage interest rates are very low, which has reduced the monthly cost of owning a home. However, interest rates on residential mortgage loans could increase at any time, and this, together with the reluctance of many lenders to make residential mortgage loans, and possible effects of new governmental regulations, could significantly reduce demand for the homes we build.High unemployment affects us in two ways. Not only are people who are not employed or are concerned about loss of their jobs unlikely to purchase new homes, but they may be forced to sell the homes they own. Therefore, high unemployment can adversely affect us both by reducing demand for the homes we build and by increasing the supply of homes for sale.Most of our 2012 earnings resulted from non-cash reversals of reserves relating to future tax benefits.During 2007, 2008 and 2009, we suffered losses for financial statement purposes totaling more than $4.4 billion, before tax benefit. Those losses generated large tax benefits, some of which we used to recover taxes we had paid in prior years, but some of which resulted in deferred tax assets in the form of net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs"), from which we could benefit only if we had taxable income in the future. Because it was not certain whether we would have sufficient taxable income to enable us to take advantage of the available future tax benefits, during 2008 and 2009, we recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets totaling $647.4 million (net of a reversal due to a change in the tax laws). At November 30, 2011, the deferred tax asset valuation allowance still totaled $576.9 million. During fiscal 2012, because our improved operating results made it appear more likely than not that the majority of our deferred tax assets would be utilized, we reversed a majority of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance, which had the effect of increasing our net earnings by $491.5 million. As of November 30, 2012, our net deferred tax assets were $467.6 million and our deferred tax asset valuation allowance was $88.8 million, which is primarily related to state NOLs.Mortgage defaults, particularly by homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products, have increased the number of homes available for resale.During the period of high demand prior to 2007, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages, that involved, at least during 10Table of Contentsinitial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. As a result, new homes became more affordable. However, as monthly payments for these homes increased either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, many of these homebuyers defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which increased the inventory of homes available for resale. There continue to be foreclosures, and foreclosure sales and other distress sales continue to exert a downward pressure on the prices for which homes, including homes in some of our communities, can be sold.It has become more difficult for potential homebuyers to obtain mortgage financing, which is reducing demand for homes we offer.Many lenders and other holders of mortgage loans have been adversely affected in recent years by a combination of reduced ability of homeowners to meet mortgage obligations and reduced value of the homes that secure mortgage loans. As a result, lenders and secondary market mortgage purchasers have eliminated most of their non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increased the qualifications needed to obtain mortgage loans. Among other things, if a home appraises for less than the purchase price, the potential homebuyer may need to provide a greater down-payment in order to meet the lender requirement or the purchase price (which is our sale price) may need to be reduced. Also, in January 2013, the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed regulations that could make it more difficult for some potential buyers to finance home purchases. Although mortgage interest rates have been very low during 2010, 2011 and 2012, the difficulty of obtaining mortgage loans has reduced the effect that low interest rates probably would otherwise have had upon home sales. We have had to take significant write-downs of the carrying values of land we own and of our investments in unconsolidated entities, and a future decline in land values could result in additional write-downs.Some of the land we currently own was purchased in or before 2007 at prices that were significantly above those for which similar land was available for sale under the depressed market conditions that prevailed in 2008 and subsequent years. Also, prior to 2007, we obtained options to purchase land at prices that became unattractive. When we obtained those options, we often made substantial non-refundable deposits and, in some instances, we incurred substantial infrastructure development and other pre-acquisition costs before we decided whether to exercise the options. When demand for homes fell, we were required to take significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we elected not to exercise many high price options, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs.Additionally, as a result of the depressed market conditions between 2008 and 2011, we recorded significant reductions in the carrying value of our investments in unconsolidated entities and, in addition, we had to record our share of reductions made by unconsolidated entities in the carrying values of their assets.The combination of land inventory impairments, write-offs of option deposits and pre-acquisition costs and valuation adjustments related to unconsolidated entities in which we had investments were a major cause of the net losses we incurred in fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009. Write downs related to our homebuilding activities were significantly lower during 2010, 2011 and 2012 and resulted primarily from changes in strategy or losses suffered by our joint ventures (we also had some write downs in 2011 and 2012 with regard to loans receivable and foreclosed real estate held by our Rialto segment). However, if market conditions were to deteriorate significantly in the future, we could be required to make additional write downs with regard to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and adversely affect our earnings and our stockholders' equity.Inflation can adversely affect us, particularly in a period of declining home sale prices.Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor require us to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. Although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we have begun to experience increases in the prices of some materials and some economists predict that government spending programs and other factors could lead to significant inflation in the future. An excess of supply over demand for new homes may require us to reduce the prices for which we sell homes, but not be accompanied by reductions, or prevent increases, in the costs of materials and labor. The effect of cost increases that we cannot recover by increasing prices would be to reduce the margins on the homes we sell. In addition to directly reducing our profit from home sales, that would make it more difficult for us to recover the full cost of previously purchased land, and could lead to significant further reductions in the value of our land inventory.We face significant competition in our efforts to sell new homes.The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders. This competition with other homebuilders can reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. We also compete with the resale of existing homes, including foreclosed homes (many of which had been owned by housing speculators) and rental housing.11Table of ContentsOperational RisksHomebuilding is subject to warranty and liability claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant.As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We are also subject to liability claims for injuries that occur in the course of construction activities. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we built. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. However, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractors' insurance and financial resources will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. Additionally, the coverage offered and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are currently limited and costly. As a result, an increasing number of our subcontractors are unable to obtain insurance, and we have in many cases waived our customary insurance requirements, and assumed responsibility for certain risks and liabilities of those subcontractors. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted and become even more costly.Things done by subcontractors can expose us to warranty costs and other risks.We rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials. Despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, improper construction processes or defective materials, such as defective Chinese drywall that at one time was installed in homes built for the Company and many other homebuilders in Florida and elsewhere, were used in the construction of our homes. When we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. Defective products widely used by the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes. The cost of complying with our warranty obligations in these cases may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repair from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers.We also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with all applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control. When we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them. However, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors had been doing.Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas.Many of our homebuilding operations are conducted in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories and lead to shortages of labor and materials in areas affected by the disasters, and can negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. If our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries.Increased costs or shortages of skilled labor and/or lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could cause increases in construction costs and construction delays. By the end of 2012, we had begun to experience increases in the prices of some building materials and shortages of skilled labor in some areas. We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into purchase contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our margins.Reduced numbers of home sales extend the time it takes us to recover land purchase and property development costs.We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community. These include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewers and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes. Reducing the rate at which we build and sell homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these costs.We have substantially reduced our corporate credit line.Our business requires that we be able to finance the development of our residential communities. Until 2010, we had a corporate credit facility (with Lennar Corporation as the borrower and most of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, other than finance company subsidiaries, as guarantors) that we used to help finance development activities. Prior to 2008, this credit line 12Table of Contentswas as high as $3.1 billion. However, because of the decline in our land purchasing, development and building activities, and our ability to obtain debt and equity financing through the capital markets, we gradually reduced the credit line, and in February 2010, we terminated it (although, we established and continue to maintain letter of credit facilities). In 2012, we established a new $500 million credit line, which has an accordion feature that could enable us to increase it to $525 million. However, this is still substantially less than the credit line we maintained in and prior to 2008. We believe that under current circumstances, the funds we generate through our operations, together with our ability to sell debt and equity securities into capital markets and our new credit line, give us access to all the funds we need. If market conditions strengthen to the point that we need additional funding, but we are not able to significantly increase our credit facility, the relatively small size of our credit facility might prevent us from taking full advantage of market opportunities.We could lose our credit line if we fail to make required payments or to comply with financial covenants. We have a credit line that is available for us to use to help finance our homebuilding and other activities.  The agreement relating to that credit line makes it a default for us to fail to pay principal or interest when it is due (subject in some instances to grace periods) or to comply with covenants, including covenants regarding various financial ratios.  If we default under the credit agreement, the lenders will have the right to terminate their commitments to lend and to require immediate repayment of all outstanding borrowings.  This could reduce our available funds at a time when we are having difficulty generating all the funds we need from our operations, in capital markets or otherwise.We do not have an investment grade credit rating, which makes it more costly for us to sell debt securities.Our ability to sell debt securities on favorable terms has been an important factor in financing our business and operations in a profitable manner. In 2007 and 2008, each of the principal credit rating agencies lowered our credit ratings, and as a result we no longer have investment grade ratings. This makes it more costly, and under some circumstances could make it more difficult, for us to access the debt capital markets for funds we may require in order to implement our business plans and achieve our growth objectives.Despite not having an investment grade rating, during 2010, 2011 and 2012, we were able to sell debt securities in capital market transactions at significantly lower interest rates than in previous years. During 2010, we sold $250 million principal amount of 6.95% senior notes due 2018, $276.5 million of 2.00% convertible senior notes due 2020 and $446 million of 2.75% convertible senior notes due 2020. During 2011, we sold $350 million principal amount of 3.25% convertible senior notes due 2021, and we sold an additional $50 million principal amount of those notes shortly after November 30, 2011, when the initial purchasers of the notes exercised an option to purchase additional notes to cover over-allotments. During 2012 we sold a total of $750 million principal amount of senior notes that mature in 2017 and 2022, respectively, and bear interest at 4.75%. Despite the relatively low interest rates with regard to the notes we sold in 2010 through 2012, the rates probably would have been even lower if we had had an investment grade rating. If we became subject to further downgrades, that would increase the cost and difficulty of accessing debt capital markets.The repurchase warehouse credit facilities of our Financial Services segment will expire in 2013.Our Lennar Financial Services segment has a 364-day warehouse repurchase facilities with a maximum aggregate commitment of $150 million and an additional uncommitted amount of $50 million that matures in February 2013, a 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $250 million that matures in July 2013, and a 364-day warehouse repurchase facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $150 million (plus a $100 million temporary accordion feature that expired December 31, 2012) and a 364-day warehouse facility with a maximum aggregate commitment of $60 million, both of which mature in November 2013. The Financial Services segment uses these facilities to finance its mortgage lending activities until the mortgage loans it originates are sold to investors.  It expects all three facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. If we were unable to renew or replace these facilities when they mature, that could seriously impede the activities of our Financial Services segment, unless Lennar itself is willing and able to provide the funds our Financial Services segment needs to finance its mortgage originations until the mortgages can be sold.We conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we can be adversely impacted by joint venture partners' failure to fulfill their obligations.For a number of years, we created and participated in a large number of joint ventures that acquired and developed land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in the joint ventures' own homebuilding operations. By using these joint ventures, we reduced the amount we had to invest in order to assure access to potential future homesites, and, in some instances, we obtained access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. However, as the homebuilding market deteriorated after 2006, many of our joint venture partners became financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations.Most joint ventures borrowed money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans was generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, frequently we and our joint venture partners were required to provide 13Table of Contentsmaintenance guarantees (guarantees that the values of the joint ventures' assets would be at least specified percentages of their borrowings) or limited repayment guarantees.If a joint venture partner does not perform its obligations, we may be required to make significant financial expenditures or otherwise undertake the performance of our partner's obligations at what can be a significant cost to us. Also, when we have guaranteed joint venture obligations, we have had the right to be reimbursed by our joint venture partners for any amounts by which we pay more than our pro rata share of the joint ventures' obligations. However, particularly when our joint venture partners were having financial problems, we often had difficulty collecting the sums they owed us, and therefore, we sometimes were required to pay a disproportionately large portion of the guaranteed amounts. In addition, because we lacked controlling interests in these joint ventures, we were usually unable to require that they sell assets, return invested capital or take any other action without the consent of at least one of our joint venture partners. As a result, without joint venture partner consent, we were unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. Even when we were able to liquidate joint venture investments, the amounts received upon liquidation sometimes were insufficient to cover the costs we had incurred in satisfying joint venture obligations.By 2012, we had significantly reduced both the number of joint ventures in which we participate and our exposure to recourse indebtedness of the remaining joint ventures. However, because most of the remaining joint ventures in which we participate were formed with regard to particular properties, and the extent to which the value of residential real estate has stabilized is not the same in all areas, we continue to have risks of loss with regard to at least some of the joint ventures in which we are a participant.  In addition, as part of our multifamily business, and its joint ventures, we have assumed certain obligations to complete construction of multifamily residential buildings at agreed upon costs and we could be responsible for cost overruns.The unconsolidated entities in which we have investments may not be able to modify the terms of their debt arrangements.Many of the joint ventures in which we participate will in the relatively near future be required to repay, refinance, renegotiate or extend their loans. If any of those joint ventures are unable to do this, we could be required to provide at least a portion of the funds the joint ventures need to be able to repay the loans and to conduct the activities for which they were formed.We could be adversely impacted by the loss of key management personnel.Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. Our Financial Services segment is adversely affected by reduced demand for our homes.Approximately 50% of the mortgage loans made by our Financial Services segment are made to buyers of homes we build. Therefore, a decrease in the demand for our homes would adversely affect the financial results of this segment of our business.If our ability to resell mortgages is impaired, we may be required to reduce home sales unless we are willing to become a long term investor in loans we originate.Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for possible claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. The secondary mortgage market was severely impacted by the decline in property values between 2007 and 2011 and it has not recovered fully even though property values in many areas of the country stabilized significantly, and even began to rise, during the last part of 2011 and during 2012.  To date, our finance company subsidiaries have been able to sell substantially all the mortgages they have originated. If, however, we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we would have to either curtail our origination of mortgage loans, which among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or commit our own funds to long term investments in mortgage loans, which could, among other things, delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations.Our Financial Services segment has received demands that it repurchase mortgage loans it sold in the secondary mortgage market and we may be required to repurchase loans in excess of amounts reserved.Particularly during 2009, 2010 and 2011, our Financial Services segment received demands that it repurchase certain loans that it had previously sold in the secondary mortgage market. The demands related primarily to loans originated during 2005 through 2007 and were frequently based on assertions that information borrowers gave our Financial Services segment was not accurate. In many instances, we have successfully disputed the claims. However, in some instances we have settled claims to maintain our business relationships with the claimants or to avoid litigation costs. In other instances, there are active disputes regarding certain loans. While we believe we have significant defenses against virtually all of the currently unresolved 14Table of Contentsrepurchase demands, we have established a reserve based upon, among other things, an analysis of repurchase requests received, an estimate of potential repurchase claims not yet received and our actual past repurchases and losses through the disposition of loans we repurchased, as well as previous settlements. At November 30, 2012 and 2011, this reserve was $7.3 million and $6.1 million, respectively. If there is an unexpected increase in the amount of repurchase demands we receive that we believe we should settle, or if we are not able to resolve existing repurchase demands on a basis consistent with our experience to date, the cost to us with regard to the repurchase demands could exceed the reserve we have established.Although our Rialto segment's investments in distressed real estate assets have been at significant discounts, if the real estate markets deteriorate significantly we could suffer losses.Until 2011, the principal activity of our Rialto segment involved acquisitions of portfolios of, or interests in portfolios of, distressed debt instruments and foreclosed properties. That was consistent with the Rialto segment's objective of focusing on commercial and residential real estate opportunities arising from dislocations in the United States real estate markets and the restructuring and recapitalization of those markets. Since 2011, investments have been made primarily by Fund I managed by the Rialto segment, rather than by the Rialto segment itself, and the Rialto segment is in the process of marketing Fund II. Lennar is an investor in Fund I and has committed to make an investment in Fund II. Investing in distressed debt and foreclosed properties presents many risks in addition to those inherent in normal lending activities, including the risk that the anticipated restructuring and recapitalization of the United States real estate markets will not be completed for many years, the risk that defaults on debt instruments in which the Rialto segment or the funds it manages invests will be greater than anticipated and the risk that if the Rialto segment or any of the funds it manages has to liquidate its investments into the market, it will suffer severe losses in doing so. There is also the possibility that, even if the investments made by the Rialto segment or the funds it manages perform as expected, absence of a liquid market for these investments will result in a need to reduce the values at which they are carried on our financial statements.If Rialto's investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses and  we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced.When a loan is foreclosed upon and we take title to the property, we obtain a valuation of the property and base its book value on that valuation. The book value of the foreclosed property is periodically compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property if classified as held-and-used, or the market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs if classified as held-for-sale (fair value), and a charge-off is recorded for any excess of the property's book value over its fair value. If the valuation we establish for a property proves to be too high, we may have to record additional charge-offs in subsequent periods.  Material additional charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and possibly even on our financial condition.There is substantial competition for the types of investments on which our Rialto segment is focused, and this may limit the ability of the Rialto segment or the investment fund it manages to make investments on terms that are attractive to it.Our Rialto segment, and its funds, Fund I and Fund II, that it created and manages, currently are focused on investments in distressed mortgage debt, foreclosed properties and other real estate related assets that have been adversely affected by the dislocations during the last several years in the markets for real estate, mortgage loans and real estate related securities. Some of the opportunities to acquire these types of assets arise under programs involving co-investments with and financing provided by agencies of the Federal government. There are many firms and investment funds that are trying to acquire the types of assets on which our Rialto segment and the investment fund it manages are focused, and it is likely that a significant number of additional investment funds will be formed in the future with the objective of acquiring those types of assets. At least some of the firms with which the Rialto segment competes, or will compete, for investment opportunities have, or will have, a cost of capital that is lower than that of the Rialto segment or the investment funds it manages, and therefore those firms may be able to pay more for investment opportunities than would be prudent for our Rialto segment or the investment funds it manages.Our Rialto segment could be adversely affected by court and governmental responses to improper mortgage foreclosure procedures.During recent years it appears that mortgage lenders and mortgage loan servicers have in a number of instances failed to comply with the requirements for obtaining and foreclosing mortgage loans. Although our Rialto segment owns or manages entities that own large numbers of mortgage loans, those loans all were acquired by our Rialto segment and the entities it manages within the past two years, and our Rialto segment has procedures designed to ensure that any mortgage foreclosures which it undertakes will comply with all applicable requirements. However, even if neither our Rialto segment nor any servicing organization it uses does anything improper in foreclosing mortgages held by the Rialto segment or entities it manages, reaction by courts and regulatory agencies against apparently widespread instances of improper mortgage foreclosure procedures could make it more difficult and more expensive for our Rialto segment to foreclose mortgages that secure loans that it or entities it manages own.15Table of ContentsThe ability of our Rialto segment to profit from the investments it makes may depend to a significant extent on its ability to manage resolutions related to the distressed mortgages and other real estate related assets.A principal factor in a prospective purchaser's decision regarding the price it will pay for a portfolio of mortgage loans or other real estate related assets is the cash flow the prospective purchaser expects the portfolio to generate. The cash flow a portfolio of distressed mortgage loans and related assets will generate can be affected by the way the assets in the portfolio are managed. We believe the backgrounds and experience of the personnel in our Rialto segment will enable the Rialto segment to generate better cash flows from the distressed assets it manages than what is generally expected with regard to similar assets. If it is not able to do that, the Rialto segment probably will not generate the returns it is seeking.The supply of real estate related assets available at discounts from normal prices will likely decrease if the real estate markets continue to improve, which could require our Rialto segment to change its investment strategy.The current strategy of our Rialto segment is to seek above normal risk adjusted returns for itself or the investment funds it manages by focusing on investments in commercial and residential real estate related assets that are available at below market prices because of the dislocations in the United States real estate markets over the past several years. A continued recovery of the real estate markets would probably benefit the investments the Rialto segment and the funds it manages have made, but it probably would substantially reduce or end the availability of the types of distressed asset investments they have made. That would require the Rialto segment to rethink, and probably to change, its investment strategy.Restrictions in agreements related to Fund I, that the Rialto segment manages could prevent the Rialto segment from making investments.The Rialto segment manages Fund I, a fund that was formed to make investments in, among other things, distressed real estate related debt and foreclosed properties. In order to protect investors in Fund I against the possibility that we would keep attractive investment opportunities for ourselves instead of presenting them to Fund I, we agreed that we would not make investments that are suitable for Fund I except to the extent an Advisory Committee consisting of representatives of Fund I investors decides that Fund I should not make particular investments, and we will probably make similar commitments with regard to subsequent funds the Rialto segment creates. There is an exception that permits us to purchase properties for use in connection with our homebuilding operations. However, it is likely that for several years the restrictions will prevent the Rialto segment from making investments in distressed mortgage loans or foreclosed properties other than through Fund I (of which we currently own approximately 10.7%), except to the extent the applicable Advisory Committee decides that a fund should not make particular investments.Regulatory RisksFederal laws and regulations that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business.There have been significant concerns about the continuing viability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and a number of proposals to curtail their activities. These organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. Any curtailment of their activities could increase mortgage interest rates and increase the effective cost of our homes, which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely affect our results of operations.Our homebuyers' ability to qualify for and obtain affordable mortgages could be impacted by changes made by government sponsored entities and private mortgage insurance companies supporting the mortgage market.Changes made by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHA/VA sponsored mortgage programs, as well as changes made by private mortgage insurance companies, have reduced the ability of many potential homebuyers to qualify for mortgages. Principal among these have been tighter lending standards such as higher income requirements, larger required down payments, increased reserves and higher required credit scores. Higher income requirements reduce the amounts for which some homebuyers can qualify when buying new homes. Larger down payment requirements and increased asset reserve thresholds appear to be preventing or delaying some homebuyers from entering the market. Increased credit score requirements eliminate a segment of potential homebuyers.New government regulations may make it more difficult for potential purchasers to finance home purchases and may reduce the number of mortgage loans our Financial Services segment makes.In January 2013, the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed regulations that would impose minimum qualifications for mortgage borrowers.  These regulations could make it more difficult for some potential buyers to finance home purchases and could result in our Financial Services segment originating fewer mortgages, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on future revenues and earnings.Government entities in regions where we operate have adopted or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas.16Table of ContentsSome state and local governments in areas where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those jurisdictions. Approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and/or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings.Compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could create substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding ventures.We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, and there are efforts to subject us to other labor related laws or rules, some of which may make us responsible for things done by our subcontractors over which we have little or no control. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. In some of the markets where we operate, we are required by law to pay environmental impact fees, use energy-saving construction materials and give commitments to municipalities to provide infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and carry out residential development or home construction. These permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our need to ensure that our associates, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. Budget reductions by state and local governmental agencies may increase the time it takes to obtain required approvals and therefore may aggravate the delays we could encounter.We can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines.Although we expect all of our associates (i.e., employees), officers and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines. When we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we move actively to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible and we have taken disciplinary action with regard to associates of ours who were aware of the practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment. However, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices' having taken place.Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive.Historically, significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally have been deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income as itemized deductions. The Federal government has been considering eliminating some deductions, or limiting the tax benefit of deductions, with regard to people with incomes above specified levels. As part of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, enacted on January 1, 2013, beginning in 2013 certain taxpayers will have their itemized deductions limited. Such limits will increase the after-tax cost of owning a home, which is likely to impact adversely the demand for homes we build and could reduce the prices for which we can sell homes, particularly in higher priced communities.Other RisksWe have a stockholder who can exercise significant influence over matters that are brought to a vote of our stockholders.Stuart A. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, has voting control, through personal holdings and holdings by family-owned entities of Class B, and to a lesser extent Class A, common stock that enables Mr. Miller to cast approximately 46% of the votes that can be cast by the holders of all our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock combined. That effectively gives Mr. Miller the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. Mr. Miller's voting power might discourage someone from seeking to acquire us or from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to meet our obligations and to operate our business. Also, because of his voting power, Mr. Miller could be able to authorize actions that are contrary to our other stockholders' desires.17Table of ContentsThe trading price of our Class B common stock is substantially less than that of our Class A common stock.The only difference between our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock is that the Class B common stock entitles the holders to 10 votes per share, while the Class A common stock entitles holders to only one vote per share.  Yet the trading price of the Class B common stock on the New York Stock exchange normally is 20% to 30% lower than the NYSE trading price of our Class A common stock.We may not be able to benefit from net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards.We suffered significant losses in 2007, 2008 and 2009 for tax (as well as for financial statement) purposes. We were able to carry back part of these losses to recover taxes we had paid with regard to prior years. However, we will not receive any tax benefits with regard to tax losses we could not carry back, except to the extent we have taxable income in the 20 year NOL carryforward period. From 2008 until 2011, we fully reserved in our financial statements against all our deferred tax assets due to the possibility that we might not have taxable income that would enable us to benefit from them. However, because in 2012 it became more likely than not that we would have sufficient future taxable income to take advantage of our deferred tax assets, in 2012 we reversed a majority of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance and we currently carry the net deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. Nonetheless, we will not actually realize the deferred tax benefits unless and until we have taxable income, and if we do not have sufficient taxable income during the 20 year NOL carryforward period, we may be required to fully reserve against our deferred tax assets again and/or, we will not receive the full tax benefit of the losses we incurred.  Trading in our shares could substantially reduce our ability to use tax loss carryforwards.Under the Internal Revenue Code, if during any three year period there is a greater than 50% change of ownership of our stock by persons who own more than 5% of our stock, our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards would be limited to the market value of our company at the time of the change in ownership times the long-term federal tax exempt rate. This change of ownership limitation can occur as a result of purchases and sales in the market by persons who become owners of more than 5% of our stock, even without anybody becoming a new majority owner. During the past three years, there have not been any significant changes in the holdings of our stock by 5% stockholders. However, it is possible that as a result of future stock trading, within a three-year period buyers could acquire in the market 5% or greater ownership interests in our stock totaling more than 50%. If that occurs, our ability to apply our tax loss carryforwards could become limited.Item 1B