Item 1A of this Annual Report. We cannot assure you that our expectations will prove to be correct. In addition, all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements mentioned above. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are based on our 2expectations as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.lkqcorp.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 3ITEM 1.      BUSINESSOVERVIEWLKQ Corporation ("LKQ" or the "Company") is a global distributor of vehicle products, including replacement parts, components and systems used in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, as well as specialty vehicle products and accessories.Buyers of vehicle replacement products have the option to purchase from primarily five sources: new products produced by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"); new products produced by companies other than the OEMs, which are sometimes referred to as aftermarket products; recycled products obtained from salvage vehicles; used products that have been refurbished; and used products that have been remanufactured. We distribute a variety of products to collision and mechanical repair shops, including aftermarket collision and mechanical products, recycled collision and mechanical products, refurbished collision products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights, and remanufactured engines. Collectively, we refer to these products as alternative parts because they are not new OEM products.We are the nation’s largest provider of alternative vehicle collision replacement products and a leading provider of alternative vehicle mechanical replacement products, with our sales, processing, and distribution facilities reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada. We are also a leading provider of alternative vehicle replacement and maintenance products in the United Kingdom and the Benelux region (Belgium, Netherlands, & Luxembourg) of continental Europe. In addition to our wholesale operations, we operate self service retail facilities across the U.S. that sell recycled automotive products from end-of-life-vehicles.  With our 2014 acquisition of Keystone Automotive Holdings, Inc. (“Keystone Specialty”), we are also a leading distributor of specialty vehicle products and accessories reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada.We are organized into four operating segments: Wholesale - North America; Europe; Specialty; and Self Service. We aggregate our Wholesale - North America and Self Service operating segments into one reportable segment, North America, resulting in three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Specialty. See Note 13, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information by reportable segment and by geographic region.HISTORYLKQ was initially formed in 1998 through the combination of a number of wholesale recycled products businesses located in Florida, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin. We subsequently expanded through internal development and over 220 acquisitions of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished, and remanufactured product suppliers and manufacturers; self service retail businesses; and specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories suppliers. Our most significant acquisitions include:•2007 acquisition of Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc., which, at the time of acquisition, was the leading domestic distributor of aftermarket products, including collision replacement products, paint products, refurbished steel bumpers, bumper covers and alloy wheels.•2011 acquisition of Euro Car Parts Holdings Limited ("ECP"), a vehicle mechanical aftermarket parts distribution company operating in the United Kingdom. This acquisition allowed us to expand our operations into the European automotive aftermarket business. •2013 acquisition of Sator Beheer B.V. ("Sator"), a vehicle mechanical aftermarket parts distribution company based in the Netherlands, with operations in the Netherlands, Belgium and Northern France. This acquisition allowed us to further expand our geographic presence into continental Europe.•2014 acquisition of Keystone Specialty, which expanded our product offering and increased our addressable market to include specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories.•On December 22, 2015, LKQ announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire the holding company of Rhiag-Inter Auto Parts Italia S.p.A (“Rhiag”), a leading pan-European business-to-business distributor of aftermarket spare parts for passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Rhiag has operations in Italy, Czech Republic, Switzerland, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Poland and Spain. The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2016 and is subject to customary closing conditions and necessary regulatory approvals. Further information regarding our acquisitions is included in Note 8, "Business Combinations" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.STRATEGYWe are focused on creating economic value for our stockholders by enhancing our position as a leading source for alternative collision and mechanical repair products, and by expanding into other product lines and businesses that may benefit from our operating strengths. We believe a supply network with a broad inventory of quality alternative collision and 4mechanical repair products, specialty vehicle aftermarket products, high fulfillment rates, and superior customer service provides us with a competitive advantage.Other than OEMs, the competition in the markets that we serve is extremely fragmented and the supply of products tends to be localized, often leading to low fulfillment rates, particularly with recycled products. In North America, the distribution channels for aftermarket and refurbished products have historically been distinct and separate from those for recycled and remanufactured products despite serving the same customer segment. We provide value to our customers by bringing these two channels together to provide a broader product offering and more efficient distribution process.To execute our strategy in North America, we have expanded our network of parts warehouses and dismantling plants in major metropolitan areas and employ a distribution system that allows for order fulfillment from regional warehouses located across the U.S. and Canada. By increasing local inventory levels and expanding our network to provide timely access to a greater range of parts, we have increased fulfillment rates beyond the levels that we believe most of our competitors realize, particularly for recycled products. In our European operations, we will continue to develop our existing branch networks in the U.K. and Benelux markets and add locations where needed. In the U.K., we have undertaken a major project to expand our distribution capabilities in Tamworth. This project is expected to be completed in 2018. Between now and completion, we will incur some duplicate operating and other start-up costs, which may be material, as a result of having multiple warehouses during the build out phase. In the Benelux markets, we will continue the integration of the distributor acquisitions we have completed in that market and look for further expansion opportunities. We continue to look for opportunities to lever our growing presence in Europe through reduced cost of goods purchased and a lower total cost structure. Over time we anticipate further integration of our European operations as we optimize purchasing, cataloging, logistics and back-office functions. Assuming we are successful in our acquisition of Rhiag, we expect to follow similar strategies in its respective markets.Sources of high quality, reliable alternatives to OEM products are important to insurance companies and to our direct customers as they seek to control repair costs. Lower parts costs and quicker completion of orders save money and reduce repair times. We believe that we provide customers (and indirectly, insurance companies) with a value proposition that includes high quality products at a lower cost than new OEM products, extensive product availability due to our expansive distribution network, responsive service, and quick delivery. The breadth of our alternative parts offerings allows us to serve as a "one-stop" solution for our customers looking for the most cost effective way to provide quality repairs. In order to execute this strategy and build on our progress thus far, we will continue to seek to expand into new markets, and to improve penetration both organically and through acquisitions.Similarly in our Specialty operations, the supplier base for the specialty vehicle aftermarket parts and accessories market is highly fragmented, typically consisting of suppliers that are small to medium-sized, independent businesses that focus on a narrow product or market niche. While our Specialty operations had an extensive distribution network already in place, we integrated the distribution network for our North American and Specialty operations to create synergies and efficiencies with our existing infrastructure. We believe this provides added value to our customers through a broader product offering and more efficient distribution process.Extensive in-place networkWe have invested significant capital to develop a network of alternative parts facilities across our operating segments. We believe our extensive network gives us a distinct ability to benefit the major automobile insurance companies, which are generally operated on a national or regional level. Additionally, the difficulty and time required to obtain proper zoning, as well as dismantling and other environmental permits necessary to operate newly-sited recycled parts facilities, would make establishing a new network of recycled parts locations a challenge for a competitor. There are also difficulties associated with recruiting and hiring an experienced management team that has strong industry knowledge.We are attempting to utilize a similar strategy in Europe with our acquisitions of ECP, Sator and certain of Sator's distributors. These companies have a national presence in their respective countries, and we are working to integrate the operations to take advantage of shared procurement, warehousing and product offerings.Strong business relationshipsWe have developed business relationships with key constituents, including automobile insurance companies, suppliers and other industry participants in North America, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands. Insurance companies, as payers for most collision repairs, help drive demand, and take active roles in the selection of alternative replacement products for vehicle repairs in order to minimize the repair portion of the claims costs and reduce repair time. The use of our products lowers the cost of repairs, decreases the time required to return the repaired vehicle to the customer, and provides a replacement product that is of high quality and comparable performance to the part replaced, all of which are favorable to insurance companies. 5Because of their importance to the process, we have formed relationships with certain insurance companies in North America for which we are designated a preferred products supplier.Within our North American Segment, we provide quality assurance programs that offer additional product support to automobile insurance companies. These product support programs identify specific subsets of aftermarket products by vendor and product type that can be used in the repair of vehicles that these companies insure. The programs typically offer aftermarket products that have been produced by manufacturers certified by a third party testing lab. We may provide additional validation of the quality of the products beyond our standard warranties, and identification details that make the products traceable back to a manufacturer's specific production run.Broad product offeringThe breadth and depth of our inventory across all of our operating segments reinforces LKQ's ability to provide a "one-stop" solution for our customers' alternative vehicle replacement, maintenance, and specialty vehicle product needs. Customers place a high value on the availability of a broad range of vehicle replacement products. Historically, in our North American operations, we have been able to provide the collision and mechanical repair industry with premium products at costs typically 20% to 50% below new OEM replacement products. The availability of alternative products means that vehicles can be repaired with lower parts costs, and in some instances, reduced labor costs. In fact, many insurance companies in North America will not authorize the use of higher cost, new OEM replacement products if alternative products are available because the use of alternative products provides insurers a method to manage and reduce total repair costs. Some insurance companies designate us as a preferred supplier for their affiliated repair shops because of our ability to provide these products. With our distribution network and extensive range of products, we believe we are the only supplier that is able to support the insurance industry in this manner. We leverage this same distribution network to provide a broad offering of specialty vehicle aftermarket products and accessories used to customize or enhance the performance, handling or appearance of new or used vehicles. Additionally, we believe we are well-positioned in Europe to  continue developing our distribution network of a broad offering of vehicle replacement products to support mechanical repair shops in that market.High fulfillment ratesWe manage local inventory levels to improve delivery time and maximize customer service. Improving local order fulfillment rates reduces transfer costs and delivery times, and improves customer satisfaction. Our ability to move inventory throughout our distribution networks increases the availability of our products and also helps us to fill a higher percentage of our customers' requests.We deploy inventory management systems at our facilities that are similar to those used by other leading distribution companies. For example, we make extensive use of bar code technology and wireless data transmission to track parts from the time a vehicle or product arrives at a facility to its placement on a truck for delivery to the customer. With this real-time information, we are able to actively monitor inventory levels throughout our distribution channels.Technology driven business processesWe focus on technology development as a way to support our competitive advantage. We believe that we can more cost effectively leverage our data to make better business decisions than our smaller competitors. We continue to develop our technology to better manage and analyze our inventory, assist our salespeople with up-to-date pricing and availability of our products, and further enhance our inventory procurement process. We employ proprietary methodologies and information systems to help us identify high demand wholesale aftermarket and recycled products. Our aftermarket inventory systems track products sold and sales lost due to a lack of inventory, and make purchase recommendations based on this information. The inventory systems also recommend purchases and transfers based on the extent and location of demand, as well as other replenishment factors. When we procure aftermarket products or refurbish collision replacement products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights, we focus on products that are in the most demand at all levels of the automotive parts value chain including the professional repair market, the jobber market and the general insured repair market. Because lead times may take 40 days or more on imported products, sales volume and in-stock inventory are important factors in the procurement process. We use historical sales records of vehicles by model and year to estimate the demand for our products. We also analyze new vehicle designs that are expected to come to market to assure that we are working with suppliers to project future supply and demand trends. Combining this information with proprietary data that aggregate customer requests for products, we are able to source aftermarket products and salvage vehicles at prices that we believe will allow us to sell products profitably.In Europe, we use a number of systems to manage our business. These systems assist with our purchasing, inventory management, order fulfillment, logistics, and other business functions at each location. Our systems allow customers to review our inventory and make purchases, and in many cases assist our customers with locating the appropriate part for repairs.6In our Specialty operations, we believe a focus on technology allows us to develop our business processes and enhance the customer experience. Our inventory forecasting systems help us ensure that the correct product is stocked in the right place to meet customer demand. Our warehousing and logistics systems help us deliver products to customers across the U.S. and Canada. Our online catalogs offer industry leading product information across all segments of automotive and recreational vehicle ("RV") aftermarket parts and accessories and allow customers to search, compare, and order products based upon the specifications of a vehicle. Furthermore, enhancements to our phone systems allow us to improve our customer support capability and the overall customer experience.NORTH AMERICA SEGMENTWholesale Automotive ProductsOur wholesale automobile product operations in North America are organized by geographic regions serving the U.S. and Canada that sell all five product types (aftermarket, recycled, remanufactured, refurbished and OEM parts) to professional collision and mechanical automobile repair businesses. Our combined distribution channels for our alternative parts offerings leverage our facility and warehouse costs and improve local product availability by locating multiple product operations together. Our aftermarket product operations may include a combination of sales, warehousing and distribution functions, and in many cases will be co-located with our refurbishing operations. Our wholesale recycling operations typically have processing, sales, distribution and administrative operations on site, indoor and outdoor storage areas, and include a large warehouse with multiple bays to dismantle vehicles. Our engine remanufacturing operations are conducted primarily at our facilities in Mexico as well as the U.S., with sales, warehousing and distribution operations in the U.S. As of December 31, 2015, our North American wholesale operations conducted business from 348 facilities.Wholesale Aftermarket ProductsOur 2015 sales included more than 110,000 SKUs of aftermarket automotive products, excluding refurbished products, for the most common models of domestic and foreign automobiles and light trucks, primarily for the repair of vehicles three to twelve years old. Our principal aftermarket product types consist of those most frequently damaged in collisions, including bumper covers, automotive body panels and lights. We also distribute paint and other materials used in repairing damaged vehicles, including sandpaper, abrasives, masking products and plastic filler. The paint and other materials distributed by us are purchased from numerous suppliers in the U.S. and Canada. We expanded our wholesale aftermarket operations through the acquisition of PartsChannel, Inc. (“Parts Channel”) in July 2015. At the time of acquisition, Parts Channel was one of the leading domestic distributors of aftermarket products, including collision replacement products.Platinum Plus is our exclusive product line offered in the Keystone brand of aftermarket products. The Platinum Plus products are held to high quality standards and tested by quality assurance teams or independent third parties. We also developed a product line called "Value Line" for more value conscious, often self-pay, consumers. Our Value Line products offer quality products at reasonable prices, providing additional choices for repairs or rebuilding of vehicles.Certain of our products are certified by independent organizations such as the Certified Automotive Parts Association ("CAPA") and NSF International ("NSF"). CAPA and NSF are associations that evaluate the functional equivalence of aftermarket collision replacement products to OEM collision replacement products. Members of CAPA and NSF include insurance companies, product distributors (including LKQ), collision repair shops and consumers. CAPA and NSF develop engineering specifications for aftermarket collision replacement products based upon examinations of OEM products; certify the factories, manufacturing processes and quality control procedures used by independent manufacturers; and certify the materials, fit and finish of specific aftermarket collision replacement products.LKQ is certified under the NSF International Automotive Parts Distributor Certification Program, which addresses the needs of collision repair shops and insurers by maintaining quality management systems to address part traceability, service and quality. This certification program complements the existing parts certification program with NSF under which a broad range of automotive replacement parts are certified by NSF. Many major insurance companies have adopted policies recommending or requiring the use of products certified by CAPA or NSF. A number of CAPA and NSF certified products are also marketed under the Platinum Plus brand.Procurement of InventoryThe aftermarket products we distribute are purchased from independent manufacturers and distributors located primarily in the U.S., Taiwan, and China. In 2015, approximately 29% of our aftermarket purchases were made from our top four vendors, with our largest vendor providing approximately 11% of our annual inventory purchases. We believe we are one of the largest customers of each of these suppliers. Outside of this group, no other supplier provided more than 5% of our supply of aftermarket products in 2015. We purchased approximately 54% of our aftermarket products in 2015 directly from 7manufacturers in Taiwan and other Asian countries. Approximately 45% of our aftermarket products were purchased from vendors located in the U.S. and Canada; however, we believe the majority of these products were manufactured in Taiwan, Mexico or other foreign countries. We have business arrangements with manufacturers to produce certain of our products. These agreements automatically renew for additional 12 month periods unless written notice is given. While we compete with other distributors for production capacity, we believe that our sources of supply and our relationships with our suppliers are satisfactory.We usually receive orders from domestic suppliers within ten days from the date ordered. Foreign orders typically are shipped in sea containers directly to certain of our aftermarket locations, and are received within 30 to 55 days from the date ordered. We operate an aftermarket parts warehouse in Taiwan that aggregates inventory from certain of our vendors for shipment to our North American locations. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 24 regional hubs and three distribution centers, which act as sources for our warehouse locations that do not receive containers directly and serve as redistribution centers for our operations.Wholesale Recycled ProductsOur recycled products include engines, transmissions, door assemblies, sheet metal products such as trunk lids, fenders and hoods, lights, and bumper assemblies. Some insurance companies mandate that the recycled products must be of the same model year or newer as the vehicle being repaired. As a result, the majority of the products we sell are from vehicles not more than ten years of age. Installing recycled products often means that collision shops not only save on product cost, but, because several products may come pre-assembled, the shops are also able to reduce labor costs.We strive to be environmentally responsible. Our recycled automotive products provide an alternative to the manufacture of new products, which would require the expenditure of more resources and energy and would generate additional pollution. In addition, we save landfill space because the parts that we recycle would otherwise be discarded. We also collect materials, such as metals, plastics, fuel and motor oil, from the salvage vehicles that we procure, and use them in our operations or sell them to other users.Procurement of InventoryWe procure recycled products for our wholesale operations by acquiring severely damaged or totaled vehicles, and then dismantling and inventorying the parts. Vehicles that have been declared "total losses" typically are sold at regional salvage auctions throughout the U.S. and Canada. Salvage auctions charge fees both to the suppliers of vehicles, which are primarily insurance companies, and to the purchasers. Additionally, we typically pay third parties to tow the vehicles from the auction to our facilities.The availability and pricing of the salvage vehicles we procure for our wholesale recycled product operations may be impacted by a variety of factors, including the production level of new vehicles and the portion of damaged vehicles declared total losses. Over the past several years, the frequency with which vehicles are declared total losses has increased as a result¸ we believe, of the rise in repair costs relative to vehicle replacement cost and salvage vehicle prices. In 2000, approximately 9% of accident claims resulted in a total loss; by 2014, this percentage increased to almost 14%, with more than 70% of these total losses being declared for vehicles aged seven years or older. Additionally, sales of new vehicles have increased since 2010 and are projected to continue to increase over the next 3 years, which should result in a greater volume of salvage vehicles at auction.In 2015, we acquired 287,000 salvage vehicles for our wholesale recycled product operations, primarily from salvage auctions. Prior to the scheduled auction date, our salvage buyers may preview the auctions online to investigate the vehicles to be sold and determine our interest in buying them. They obtain key information such as the model and mileage, and perform visual damage assessments to determine which parts on the targeted vehicles are recyclable. With the data from this preview, we deploy a bidding system that performs a valuation calculation for each vehicle. In order to recommend a maximum bid price, the calculation incorporates demand for a vehicle's recyclable parts, current inventory levels, average selling prices, auction costs, projected margins and instances of out-of-stock. Using this disciplined supply and demand procurement approach, we place bids on the targeted vehicles.Vehicle ProcessingVehicle processing for our wholesale recycled operations involves dismantling a salvage vehicle into recycled products that are ready for sale. When a salvage vehicle arrives at our facility, an inventory specialist identifies, catalogs, and schedules the vehicle for dismantling. Prior to dismantling, we remove from each vehicle its battery, fluids, refrigerants, and parts containing hazardous substances or precious metals such as catalytic converters. The extracted fluids are stored in bulk and subsequently sold to recyclers. In the case of gasoline, the fuel retrieved is primarily used to power our delivery vehicles. A small portion of the recycled motor oil we collect is used at certain of our plants that have high-efficiency oil burning furnaces; the balance is sold to motor oil recyclers.8When ready for dismantling, each vehicle has an inventory report that indicates to the dismantler which parts should be removed and placed in a warehouse for future sales to customers, which parts should be collected in bulk for our refurbishing and remanufacturing operations or for sale to parts remanufacturers, and which parts have value but should remain on the vehicle until sold. We utilize bar coding systems and wireless transmission to keep track of inventory from the time a product is removed and inventoried to the time it is sold and put on a truck for delivery.Refurbished and Remanufactured ProductsAs of December 31, 2015, we operated 25 refurbishing facilities and 4 engine remanufacturing facilities. We refurbish products such as wheels, lights, plastic bumpers, and chrome bumpers.When identifying the products that we refurbish or remanufacture, we focus on products that have high demand. The majority of our refurbished and remanufactured products are processed from cores obtained from salvage vehicles purchased by our recycled operations, parts received in trade from customers purchasing replacement products from us, and cores collected by our route delivery drivers from vehicles under repair by our customers. These products are accumulated from our wholesale operations at our core sorting facilities, and are then either sent to our refurbishing or remanufacturing facilities or sold in bulk to other mechanical remanufacturers.Heavy-Duty Truck ProductsAs of December 31, 2015, we operated a total of 25 heavy-duty truck facilities in the U.S. and Canada. Our inventory is composed of used heavy-duty trucks, usually at least five years old, which are purchased at salvage and truck auctions or directly from insurance companies or large fleet operators. During 2015, we purchased approximately 7,000 vehicles. Depending on the condition of the vehicles, they may be dismantled for parts or resold as running vehicles. If certain mechanical parts are damaged, such as transmissions, we may remanufacture them and offer them to our customers. The vehicles that are acquired for resale are typically special purpose or vocational use trucks such as those used for garbage pickup or cement delivery. If requested by the sellers of the vehicles, we provide assurance that the vehicles will be sold to foreign buyers and exported to countries for use outside of the U.S., or to domestic buyers after the vehicles have been reconditioned and modified for use other than their original purpose.Scrap and Other MaterialsOur wholesale recycled product operations generate scrap metal and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that have been dismantled for recycled products and "crush only" end of life vehicles acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site. In other cases, we will hire mobile crushing equipment to crush the vehicles before they are transported to shredders and scrap metal processors. Damaged and unusable wheel cores are melted in our aluminum furnace and sold to consumers of aluminum ingot and sow for the production of various automotive products, including wheels. We also extract and sell the precious metals contained in certain of our recycled parts such as catalytic converters.CustomersWe sell our products to wholesale customers that include collision and mechanical repair shops and new and used car dealerships, as well as to retail customers. Customers of our heavy-duty truck products may also include owner/operators, local cartage companies, or exporters. Most of our refurbished and remanufactured products are sold through our wholesale distribution channels. The balance is sold to retail automotive stores, wholesale distributors and via internet sales. We also generate a portion of our revenue from scrap sales to metal recyclers. No single customer accounted for 2% or more of our revenue in 2015.Repair Shops and OthersWe sell the majority of our wholesale products to collision and mechanical repair shops. Industry reports estimate there were approximately 41,000 collision repair shops, including those owned by new car dealerships, in the U.S. in 2014.  The same reports estimate there were approximately 79,000 general (including mechanical) repair garages, excluding new car dealership service departments, in the U.S. in 2014. The majority of these customers tend to be individually-owned small businesses, although the number of independent and dealer-operated collision repair facilities has declined over the last decade, as regional or national multiple location operators have increased their geographic presence through acquisitions. We also sell our products to car rental companies and fleet management groups.Insurance CompaniesAutomobile insurance companies affect the demand for our collision products. While insurance companies do not pay for our products directly, they ultimately pay for the repair costs of insured vehicles in excess of any deductible amount. As a result, insurance companies often influence the types of products used in a repair.9Our presence in most major markets in the U.S. and Canada gives us a distinctive ability to benefit the major automobile insurance companies. Insurance companies generally operate at a national or regional level. The use of our products provides a direct benefit to these companies by lowering the cost of repairs, decreasing the time required to return the repaired vehicle to the customer, and providing a replacement product that is of high quality and comparable performance to the part replaced.We assist insurance companies by providing high quality aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products to collision repair shops, especially to repair shops that are part of an insurance company's Direct Repair Program ("DRP") network. A repair shop participating in a DRP is referred potential work from the insurance company in exchange for providing assurances to the insurance company of quality, timeliness, and cost. Industry reports indicate that over half the claims paid for by top insurance companies in 2012 were paid through a DRP, compared to 42% in 2009. To meet the needs of the DRPs, professional repairers have been required to become fluent in claims handling. We offer our repair shop customers access to our proprietary system, Keyless, which provides a link between their estimating systems and our inventory to identify the availability of alternative products for use in their repair. This data also helps insurance companies monitor the body shops' compliance with their DRP product guidelines that might, for instance, stipulate the use of the lowest cost products that meet quality specifications. In addition, in some markets insurance companies are able to dispose of low value total loss vehicles directly to us so they can save the transaction fees associated with selling these vehicles through salvage auctions.Sales and MarketingIn the case of repairs paid for as a result of insurance claims, which industry publications estimate are approximately 85% of all repairs, insurance companies give collision repair shops information as to what type of replacement products are eligible for reimbursement. Typically insurance carriers have established a hierarchy or decision tree prioritizing the types of products to be used for repairs. As an example, a protocol may require recycled products if available; if recycled products are not available, then refurbished products; and, if recycled or refurbished products are not available, aftermarket products. If none of these alternative product types is available, the shop may then use new OEM replacement products. Once the estimated repair cost is determined, the body shop will begin its search for required products.  The sourcing of products typically begins with a call to one of our recycled operations or one of our competitors. Our recycled sales personnel are encouraged to capture the sale as a "one-stop shop" and, if recycled products are out of stock, to fill orders from our refurbished or aftermarket product inventory. To support these efforts, we have provided our sales staff with access to both recycled and aftermarket sales systems, and we have developed sales incentive programs that encourage cross selling throughout our wholesale operations.As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 2,300 full-time sales staff in our North American wholesale operating segment. The full time sales personnel are located at sales desks at our facilities or at one of the regional call centers we operate. We deploy a call routing system that redirects overflow calls to alternative call centers, typically located within the same region. We also operate two other call centers, one to support national accounts, and the other to support insurance adjusters' needs and questions. Our sales personnel are encouraged to initiate outbound calls in addition to the inbound calls they handle. Our sales staff can use customer estimates from our Keyless estimating system to generate sales leads for both aftermarket and recycled products.We are continually reviewing and revising the pricing of wholesale products. Our pricing specialists consider factors such as recent demand levels, inventory quantity on hand and turnover rates, new OEM product prices and local competitive pricing, with the goal of optimizing revenue. We set list prices and then sell items at a discount to list, with the discount typically based on each customer's purchasing volume. We may adjust prices during the year in response to material price changes of new OEM replacement products.We believe our commitment to stock inventory in local warehouses, supplemented by the inventory sharing system within our regional trading zones, improves our ability to meet our customers' requirements more frequently than our competitors and gives us a competitive advantage.DistributionWe have a distribution network of 348 wholesale plants and warehouses across the U.S. and Canada as of December 31, 2015, of which 66 function as cross dock facilities. Our network of facilities allows us to develop and maintain our relationships with local repair shops while providing a level of service that is made possible by our nationwide presence. Our local presence allows us to provide daily deliveries as required by our customers, using drivers who routinely deliver to the same customers. Our sales force and local delivery drivers develop and maintain critical personal relationships with the local repair shops that benefit from access to our wide selection of products, which we are able to offer as a result of our regional inventory network.We have developed an internal distribution network to allow our sales representatives to sell our products within regional trading zones, thus improving our ability to fulfill customer requests and accelerating inventory turnover. Each weekday we operate approximately 310 transfer runs between our cross dock facilities and our plants and warehouses within 10our regional trading zones to redistribute our alternative products for delivery on the next day. In addition, we have over 2,900 local delivery routes serving our customers each weekday.Each sale results in the generation of a work order at the location housing the specific product. A dispatcher is then responsible for ensuring fulfillment accuracy, printing the final invoice, and including the product on the appropriate truck route for delivery to the customer. In markets where we offer more than one alternative product type, we are integrating the delivery of multiple product types on the same delivery routes to help minimize distribution costs and improve customer service. We operate a delivery fleet of medium-sized trucks and smaller trucks and vans. Over time, we expect that our delivery vehicles will become more consistent as we reconfigure the fleet to include vehicles that can carry all five product types.CompetitionWe consider all suppliers of vehicle collision and mechanical products to be competitors, including aftermarket suppliers, recycling businesses, refurbishing operations, parts remanufacturers, OEMs and internet-based suppliers. We believe the principal areas of differentiation in our industry include availability of inventory, pricing, product quality and service.The aftermarket product distribution business is highly fragmented and our competitors, other than OEMs, are generally independently owned distributors with one to three distribution centers. Similarly, we compete with domestic vehicle product recyclers, most of which are single-unit operators. In some markets, smaller competitors have organized affiliations to share marketing and distribution resources, including internet sites. We compete with alternative parts distributors on the basis of our nationwide distribution system, our product lines and inventory availability, customer service, our relationships with insurance companies, and to a lesser extent, price. We do not consider retail chains that focus on the do-it-yourself market to be our direct competitors since many of our wholesale product sales are paid for by insurance companies rather than the end user.Manufacturers of original equipment products sell the majority of automobile collision replacement products. We believe, however, that the insurance and repair industries recognize advantages of using aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products for collision repairs. Industry sources estimate that alternative collision parts usage in the U.S. ranged between approximately 36% and 37% during 2015. We compete with OEMs primarily on the basis of price and, to a lesser extent, on service and product quality.Self Service Retail ProductsOur self service retail operations sell parts from older cars and light-duty trucks directly to consumers. In addition to revenue from the sale of parts, core, and scrap, we charge a nominal admission fee to access the property. Our self service facilities typically consist of a fenced or enclosed area of several acres with vehicles stored outdoors and a retail building through which customers are able to access the yard. As of December 31, 2015, we conducted our self service operations from 78 facilities in North America, most of which operate under the name "LKQ Pick Your Part."InventoryWe acquire inventory for our self service retail product operations from a variety of sources, including but not limited to towing companies, auctions, the general public, municipality sales, insurance carriers, and charitable organizations. We typically procure salvage vehicles that are more than seven model years old for our self service retail product operations. These vehicles are generally older and of lower quality than the salvage vehicles we purchase for our wholesale recycled product operations. Using our new car buying system implemented in 2015, we have streamlined the car buying process and are better able to facilitate the quoting, purchasing, and processing of cars. In 2015, we purchased approximately 471,000 lower cost self service and "crush only" vehicles.Vehicles are delivered to our locations by the seller, or we arrange for transportation. Once on our property, minimal labor is required to process the vehicle other than removing the battery, fluids, refrigerants, catalytic converters and hazardous materials. Vehicles are then placed in the yard for customers to remove parts. The vehicle inventory is usually organized according to domestic and import cars (further organized by make), passenger vans and trucks. In our self service business, availability of a specific part will depend on which vehicles are currently at the site and to what extent parts may have been previously sold. We usually keep a vehicle at our facility for 30 to 90 days, depending on the capacity of the yard and size of the market, before it is crushed and sold to scrap metal processors. By maintaining a relatively short turnover period, we ensure that our inventory is continually updated with different car options or removed from the yard when the saleable parts are depleted.Scrap and Other MaterialsOur self service operations generate scrap metal, alloys and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that we no longer make available to the public and "crush only" vehicles acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site.11CustomersThe customers of our self service yards are frequently do-it-yourself mechanics, small independent repair shops servicing older vehicles, auto rebuilders, and resellers. The scrap from the vehicle hulks, when not processed by us, is sold to metals recyclers, with whom we may also compete when procuring salvage vehicles for our operations.Sales and MarketingWe list part prices for automobiles and light-duty trucks on regularly updated price sheets, with prices varying by part type, but not by make or model. For instance, four cylinder engines are priced the same regardless of vehicle make, model, age or condition. While we do not consider retail automotive chains to be our direct competitors, as their product offerings are focused on maintenance products and mechanical parts, we may reference their prices on certain parts as a benchmark to ensure our prices remain competitive.CompetitionThere are competitors operating self service businesses in all of the markets in which we operate. In some markets, there are numerous competitors, often operating in close proximity to our operations. We try to differentiate our business by the quality of the inventory and the size and cleanliness of the property.EUROPE SEGMENTWholesale Automotive ProductsOur European wholesale operating segment was formed in the fourth quarter of 2011 with our acquisition of ECP, a leading distributor of automotive aftermarket parts in the U.K. ECP has approximately 8,800 employees with a large customer base of both commercial and retail accounts. The majority of ECP’s revenue comes directly from the professional repair segment. ECP’s national distribution centers support its regional hubs and branch network with daily replenishment of stock, providing our customers with what we believe to be the highest in-stock rate in the U.K. As of December 31, 2015, we operated 218 selling locations, supported by 3 national distribution centers and 17 regional hubs (many of which are co-located with selling locations), which allows us to reach most major markets within the U.K.Our European aftermarket collision parts program is managed by our ECP branch network through which we sell our Platinum Plus aftermarket products. We believe the historically low alternative collision parts usage percentage in Europe, which is currently less than 10%, provides an opportunity for us in this segment, particularly as insurance companies look to lower their costs. To further our commitment to expanding our European alternative collision parts program and becoming a leading one-stop shop supplier to the collision repair industry in the U.K., we also offer automotive paint products and related accessories.In May 2013, we acquired Sator, which allowed us to expand our presence in Europe to continental Europe. Headquartered in Schiedam, the Netherlands, Sator is a market leading distributor of automotive aftermarket parts in Western Europe. The acquisition of Sator expanded LKQ's European presence, and provides a potential platform to capitalize on the large and fragmented mechanical replacement parts market in Europe. Sator also complements our existing ECP operations in the U.K. given the significant overlap in suppliers and product mix, which allows for potential cost savings from the leveraging of our combined purchasing power. Efforts to combine the purchasing function in Europe are ongoing and are expected to be a continuous effort over the coming years. We have modified Sator's distribution model to be consistent with our U.K operations, primarily through acquisitions since the second quarter of 2014 of 18 warehouse distributors, 14 of which were customers of Sator. These acquisitions are integral to our plan to implement a two-step distribution model for Sator, under which we are selling directly to repair shops in order to improve our margins, drive product sales, and ultimately sell collision parts in the Benelux region.Sator has over 2,800 employees at 97 aftermarket warehouses that serve a diverse base of repair shop and warehouse distributor customers. Sator generates approximately 89% of its revenue from sales in the Netherlands and Belgium, with the remainder in Northern France and other European countries. With their respective distribution networks, IT infrastructure and unique customer base, we believe ECP and Sator will serve as a platform to expand into complementary products to increase market penetration in this segment, as well as to further develop a collision repair parts business throughout Europe similar to our wholesale operations in North America.In November 2014, we expanded our European segment to include wholesale recycling operations through our acquisition of a business with salvage and vehicle repair facilities in Sweden and Norway. We acquired an additional salvage business in Sweden in October 2015 bringing our Scandinavian employee headcount and warehouse count to 178 and 7, respectively. In addition to expanding our geographic presence in Europe, we believe these acquisitions provide us with the opportunity to leverage our experience in operating salvage facilities in a new market and leaves us well positioned to expand our aftermarket operations to include these countries.12InventoryIn 2015, ECP’s and Sator’s sales included 137,000 SKUs and 166,000 SKUs, respectively. Our inventory is primarily composed of mechanical aftermarket parts for the repair of vehicles 3 to 15 years old. Our top selling products include brake pads, discs and sensors; clutches; electrical products such as spark plugs and batteries; steering and suspension products; filters; and oil and automotive fluids. In 2015, our top five suppliers represented 20% of our inventory purchases, with our top supplier representing approximately 8% of our purchases. No suppliers outside of our top five suppliers provided more than 2% of our purchases during 2015.The aftermarket products we distribute are purchased from vendors located primarily in the U.K. and continental Europe. In 2015, we purchased 90% of our products from companies in Europe. The remaining 10% of our 2015 purchases were sourced from vendors located primarily in China or Taiwan, some of which also supply collision parts for our Wholesale - North American operations. In 2015, 52%, 38%, and 10% of our total inventory purchases were made in Euros, Pounds Sterling, and U.S Dollars, respectively.In our Scandinavia operations, we purchase severely damaged or totaled vehicles from insurance companies, which are transferred to our dismantling facilities or sold to other third party dismantlers.  In 2015, we acquired over 8,150 salvage vehicles for our wholesale recycled product operations and resold 11,700 salvage vehicles to other third party dismantlers.CustomersIn our U.K. operations, we sell the majority of our products to over 37,000 commercial customers primarily consisting of professional repairers, including both independent mechanical repair shops and collision repair shops. In addition to our sales to repair shops, we generate a portion of our revenue through sales to retail customers from ECP’s e-commerce platform and from counter sales at the branch locations. This retail component of ECP’s business has historically represented approximately 10% of its revenue.Historically our distribution network in the Benelux Region operated under a three-step distribution model where the immediate customers were warehouse distributors. Since the second quarter of 2014, we have acquired 18 aftermarket parts distributors in the Netherlands. These acquisitions have enabled us to transform the original distribution model to a two-step distribution model. Our customer base currently consists of a combination of warehouse distributors and local repair shops, and the demand for our products is driven by the needs of the same types of professional repairers we service in our ECP operations. As a result, our customer base primarily consists of local repair shops. We still sell to some warehouse distributors, although the proportion of revenue from the distributors has declined over time as we internalize this function. Sator markets directly to the mechanical repair shops through fliers and other promotional materials and provides software to the repair shops, which the shops need for their operations. During 2015, no customer accounted for more than 3% of revenue for ECP or Sator.Sales and MarketingECP’s customers will generally call a sales representative at the nearest branch to place an order. Using an electronic automotive exchange and our integrated IT platform displaying inventory availability, our sales representatives locate the appropriate replacement part for a customer. We set list prices for our products, and then apply a discount off of list, primarily depending on each customer's purchasing volume. We utilize a business-to-business website with certain of our customers to enable them to place product orders online through a customized interface that includes detailed parts specifications, customer-specific pricing, local branch availability, and account information. We believe this customer interface will result in fewer parts returns by improving order accuracy and will also reduce the time required by parts specialists to advise customers. Whether placed via a phone order or online, customer orders are filled from the local branch or routed to another location as necessary to fill the order.Sator’s sales and marketing platform is a proprietary stock management system that provides repair shops, jobbers and end users with an efficient system for ordering from our product catalog directly online. Through this online system, Sator is able to actively monitor inventory levels at all stages in the aftermarket automotive parts value chain in its markets.Similar to our North American wholesale operations, insurance companies significantly influence the purchasing decisions for collision products in Europe. As a result, we are attempting to establish business relationships with insurance companies and implement insurer-based marketing models in the U.K. by emphasizing the cost savings that can be achieved through the use of alternative parts. As we continue to grow our collision parts offerings in the U.K., we believe we will be well-positioned to serve as a lower-cost alternative for insured repairs throughout Europe given the majority of U.K. carriers offer coverage in multiple European countries outside of the U.K.DistributionOur European operations employ a distribution model in which inventory is stored at regional distribution centers or hubs, with fast moving product stored at branch locations or at local warehouse distributors (for some of our Sator operations) for timely delivery to the repair shop customers. Product is moved through the distribution network on our vans or via common 13carrier. In our ECP operations, we also sometimes employ a third party motorcycle fleet to deliver parts from our branch locations to nearby repair shop customers; as a result, our ECP branches can deliver certain in-stock parts within one hour.CompetitionWe view all suppliers of replacement repair products as our competitors, including other alternative parts suppliers and OEMs and their dealer networks. While we compete with all alternative parts suppliers, there are few with national distribution networks like ECP and Sator that can reach the majority of repair shop customers within the required delivery time within their respective markets. We believe we have been able to distinguish ourselves from other alternative parts suppliers primarily through our distribution network, efficient stock management systems and proprietary technology which allows us to deliver our products quickly, as well as through our product lines and inventory availability, pricing, and service. We compete with OEMs primarily on the basis of price, service, and availability.SPECIALTY SEGMENTSpecialty Vehicle Aftermarket Equipment and AccessoriesOur Specialty operating segment was formed in January 2014 with our acquisition of Keystone Specialty. Keystone Specialty is a leading distributor and marketer of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories in North America serving the following six product segments: truck and off-road; speed and performance; RV; towing; wheels, tires and performance handling; and miscellaneous accessories. Our specialty segment has over 2,200 employees. We expanded our Specialty operating segment through our October 2014 acquisition of a supplier of replacement parts, supplies and accessories for RVs. Our August 2015 acquisition of The Coast Distribution System, Inc. (“Coast”) added to product offerings for the RV and outdoor recreation markets. With these acquisitions, we are a leading distributor and marketer of specialty vehicle aftermarket products and accessories, reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada.Inventory    Our 2015 sales included more than 250,000 SKUs of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories. Our top selling products are trailer hitches and RV products including satellite antennas, generators, waterproofing sealants, combination washer/dryer units and water pumps. The specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories we distribute are purchased from suppliers located primarily in the U.S., Canada, and China. Specialty aftermarket suppliers are typically small to medium-sized, independent businesses that focus on a narrow product or market niche. Due to the highly fragmented supplier base for specialty vehicle aftermarket products, we have very little supplier concentration. In 2015, approximately 17% of our specialty vehicle aftermarket purchases were made from our top five vendors, with our largest vendor providing approximately 5% of our inventory.CustomersSpecialty automotive and RV aftermarket accessories and equipment are purchased by our customers to improve the performance, functionality and appearance of their vehicles. Overall, the specialty vehicle aftermarket parts and accessories market contains a fragmented customer base comprised of specialty vehicle product installation outlets, automotive parts chains, or mail-order. In 2015, we sold products to approximately 20,000 customers. Our customers are principally small, independent retailers and installers of specialty vehicle automotive equipment. These businesses depend on us to provide a broad range of products, rapid delivery, marketing support and technical assistance. In addition to traditional customers, in recent years we have increased sales to several large automotive parts and online retailers. During 2015, our top two customers accounted for approximately 6% of Specialty segment revenue while no other customer accounted for more than 1% of revenue.Sales and MarketingOur employee sales force is comprised of inside sales personnel located within geographically-disbursed call centers and outside sales personnel who call directly on customers in the field. This sales force receives customer orders, responds to technical and other inquiries and proactively places outbound sales calls to customers. The focus of our outside sales force is to identify and acquire new customers, and to further develop relationships with existing customers. Outside sales personnel are responsible for specific geographic regions across the U.S. and Canada, and they work with regional managers to penetrate and service new and existing markets. Outside sales personnel also sell value-added marketing services, such as merchandising support.Marketing programs include: catalogs; advertising, sponsorships and promotional activities; product level marketing and merchandising support; and online initiatives. Our national footprint allows us to stage trade shows across the U.S., which provide an opportunity to improve sales through the showcasing of new and innovative products from our vendors to our customers.14Through these sales and marketing initiatives, our goal is to continue to enhance our brand and reputation as a leading distributor in the industry.DistributionOur Specialty operations employ a hub-and-spoke distribution model which enables us to transport products from our 6 primary distribution centers and 18 inventory-stocking warehouses to our 54 non-inventory stocking cross docks, a majority of which are co-located with our Wholesale - North America operations and provide distribution points to key regional markets. Over 375 delivery routes are used to provide multi-day per week delivery and returns of our products directly to and from our customers in all 48 continental U.S. states and 9 Canadian provinces, and we ship globally to customers in over 40 countries. Keystone Specialty also operates 18 retail stores in northeastern Pennsylvania. Our retail stores accounted for less than 4% of Specialty segment revenue in 2015.CompetitionIndustry participants have a variety of supply choices. Vendors can deliver products to market via warehouse distributors and mail order catalogs, or directly to retailers and/or consumers. We view all suppliers of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories as our competitors. While we compete with all specialty vehicle aftermarket parts suppliers, there are few with national distribution networks like LKQ’s that can reach the majority of customers within the optimum delivery time. We believe we have been able to distinguish ourselves from other specialty vehicle aftermarket parts suppliers primarily through our broad product selection, which encompasses both popular and hard-to-find products, our distribution network, and efficient stock management systems, as well as through our service. We compete on the basis of product breadth and depth, rapid and dependable delivery, marketing initiatives, support services, and price.    INTELLECTUAL PROPERTYWe own various trade names and trademarks as a result of past acquisitions. In addition to acquired trade names and trademarks, we also have technology based intellectual property that includes both internally developed websites and license agreements. We do not believe that our business is materially dependent on any single or group of related trademarks, licenses or registrations, nor would the expiration of any particular intellectual property right or termination of any particular intellectual property license agreement materially affect our business.EMPLOYEESAs of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 31,100 employees. We are a party to a collective bargaining agreement with a union that represents 45 employees at our Totowa, New Jersey facility. Approximately 790 of our employees at our bumper refurbishing and engine remanufacturing operations in Mexico and 160 of our employees at our recycled parts facility in Quebec City, Canada are also represented by unions. Other than these locations, none of our employees are members of a union or participate in other collective bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good.FACILITIESOur corporate headquarters are located at 500 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60661. We operate a field support center in Nashville, Tennessee that performs certain centralized functions for our North American operations, including accounting, procurement, and information systems support. Our Specialty operations maintain primary procurement, accounting and finance functions in Exeter, Pennsylvania. Certain back-office support functions for our segments are performed in Bangalore, India. Our European operations maintain procurement, accounting, and finance functions in Wembley, outside of London, England and in Schiedam, the Netherlands. In addition to these offices, we have numerous operating facilities that handle wholesale and self service retail product operations. We operate out of more than 790 locations in total, most of which are leased. Many of our locations stock multiple product types or serve more than one function.Included in our total locations are 424 facilities in the U.S. and 219 facilities in the U.K., including the 500,000 square foot national distribution center in Tamworth that houses inventory to supply the hubs and branches of our U.K. operations. In 2015, we began working with a developer on a second national distribution center in Tamworth.  The 750,000 square foot facility will be fully operational by 2018. We also operate 97 facilities in continental Europe, 41 facilities in Canada, seven facilities in Scandinavia, four facilities in Mexico and two facilities in Central America. Additionally, we operate an aftermarket parts warehouse in Taiwan to aggregate inventory for shipment to our locations in North America.INFORMATION TECHNOLOGYIn our North American operations, our aftermarket operations use a third party enterprise management system. Additional third party software packages have been implemented to leverage the centralized data and information that a single system provides, such as a data warehouse to conduct enhanced analytics and reporting, an integrated budgeting system, an 15electronic data interchange tool, and E-commerce tools to enhance our online business-to-business initiatives -OrderKeystone.com and Keyless. The systems used by our aftermarket operations are also used by all of our refurbishing operations.Our wholesale recycled product locations in North America operate an internally-developed, proprietary enterprise management system called LKQX. We believe that the use of a single system across all of our wholesale recycled product operations helps facilitate the sales process, allows for continued implementation of standard operating procedures, and yields improved training efficiency, employee transferability, access to our national inventory database, management reporting and data storage. The system also supports an electronic exchange process for identifying and locating parts at other select recyclers and facilitates brokered sales to fill customer orders for items not in stock. Our bidding specialists responsible for procuring vehicles for our wholesale salvage operations are equipped with a proprietary software application that compares the vehicles at the salvage auctions to our current inventory, historical demand, and recent average selling prices to arrive at an estimated maximum bid. This bidding system reduces the likelihood of purchasing unneeded parts that might result in obsolete inventory.To better serve our customers, a consolidated approach has been taken for the electronic sale of wholesale products in our North American Segment.  A full suite of E-commerce services is available to approved partners that helps us improve order accuracy, reduce return rate and better fit our customer workflow. Using these services in coordination with our partners, products can be searched, priced and ordered without leaving the customers' own operating systems.  We operate a single enterprise system for all of our heavy-duty truck operations that supports inter-region sales to reduce the potential for lost sales due to out-of-stock parts. We are also transitioning to a single IT platform to support our remanufacturing operations. We operate an internally-developed point of sale system in our self service retail operations, which allows enhanced management reporting as well as improved system reliability. Through www.lkqpickyourpart.com our self service customers can access key information including yard location, vehicle inventory, and pricing by part type.Our aftermarket operations in the U.K. use a single integrated IT platform for our purchasing, branch stock, and finance activities, which are further supported by a national distribution center system to manage inventory movement. The IT system allows customers to identify the correct part for repairs, thereby improving customer satisfaction and reducing return rates. Our aftermarket operations in continental Europe use several IT systems, which are linked to transfer data between systems, to manage customer orders and inventory movement, and for financial reporting purposes. This IT system can interface with our repair shop customers' respective IT systems, which enables them to identify the part required for the repair.Our Specialty operations utilize an internally developed inventory management and order entry system that interfaces with third party software systems for accounting, transaction processing, data analytics, and reporting. Online sales of our Specialty products take place through our ekeystone.com and viantp.com sites. These sites provide customers (i) the ability to match products with the make and model of car thus allowing the customer to order the right part, (ii) the product information (e.g. pictures, attributes) available for review and (iii) the convenience of searching inventory availability and ordering the product on the site. Additionally, the site can provide sales opportunities by suggesting other parts to purchase based on an inquiry submitted by the customer. Our delivery fleet utilizes a third party software provider to optimize delivery routes, and to track the progress of delivery vehicles throughout their runs.The hardware that supports the systems used in our operations is located in offsite data centers. The centers are in secure environments with around-the-clock monitoring, redundant power backup, and multiple, diverse data and telecommunication routing. We use separate third party provided software for our financial systems such as financial and budget reporting, general ledger accounting, accounts payable, payroll, and fixed assets. We currently protect our local customer, inventory, and corporate consolidated data, such as financial information, e-mail files, and other user files, with daily backups. These backups are stored off site with a third party data protection vendor. Additionally, we restrict access to customer, employee and vendor data to those users that have permission granted to them as part of their job function. We have made investments in various logging, encryption, event correlation and data loss prevention software to reduce the risk of unauthorized access and extraction of personally identifiable information of all types including that of vendors, customers and employees.  Customer credit card information is not stored within the company’s computing environment, and the card information is encrypted when it is transmitted and processed for authorization.We continually evaluate our systems with the goal of ensuring that all critical systems remain secure, scalable, and operational as our business grows.16REGULATION Environmental ComplianceOur operations and properties are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and health and safety in the U.S. as well as other countries in which we operate.  These environmental laws govern, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, mercury, and other hazardous materials.We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. We have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements. We cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements.Although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, environmental laws may change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business.Contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons ("CFCs") from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. Contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. Contamination can migrate on-site or off-site which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability.In addition, many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. As a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination, even if these owners or operators did not know of and were not responsible for such contamination. These environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances.When we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. Furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. In addition, at times we, or sellers from whom we purchased a business, have undertaken remediation projects. We do not anticipate, based on currently available information and current laws, that we will incur liabilities in excess of reserves to address environmental matters. However, in the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves.Title LawsIn some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. Whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. Currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. In 1992, the U.S. Congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. Since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. The vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. However, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. National legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future.Anti-Car Theft ActIn 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any 17"covered major part." The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. There is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. However, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an effort to push for the implementation of such rules.Legislation Affecting Automotive Repair PartsMost states have laws relating to the use of aftermarket products in motor vehicle collision repair work. The provisions of these laws may include consumer disclosure, vehicle owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. Some jurisdictions have laws that regulate the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. Additional laws of this kind may be enacted in the future. An increase in the number of states passing such legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. Additionally, Congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket and recycled automotive products used in the course of collision repair.SEASONALITYOur operating results are subject to quarterly variations based on a variety of factors, influenced primarily by seasonal changes in weather patterns. During the winter months, we tend to have higher demand for our vehicle replacement products because there are more weather related accidents, which generate repairs. We expect our specialty operations to generate greater revenue and earnings in the first half of the year, when vehicle owners tend to install specialty products.ITEM 1A.      RISK FACTORSRisks Relating to Our BusinessOur operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic and political conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere.Changes in economic and political conditions in the U.S. and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. Changes in such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business. Our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. The economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending.  Many of these factors are outside of our control. If any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and interest rate swap transactions. These unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business.The vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of OEM, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. Within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. Providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. Some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. In certain regions of the U.S., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. Similarly in Europe, some local companies 18are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry. As a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve.We believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by OEMs, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. The OEMs are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. We compete with the OEMs primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. From time to time, the OEMs have implemented programs seeking to increase their market share in the collision repair parts industry. For example, they have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products and with other initiatives that may disrupt our sales. If such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.We rely upon our customers and insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts.Our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies. There can be no assurance that current levels of alternative parts usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. In addition, in some places we operate, alternative parts usage is relatively low. We also rely on business relationships with insurance companies. These insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. The business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. Our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. We rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations.In an Illinois lawsuit involving State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company ("Avery v. State Farm"), a jury decided in October 1999 that State Farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-OEM replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." The jury found that State Farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-OEM replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. The jury assessed damages against State Farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act. In April 2001, the Illinois Appellate Court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. On August 18, 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by State Farm. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of this case. As a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. Our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims.In addition, to the extent that the collision repair industry continues to consolidate, the buying power of collision repair shop customers may further increase, putting additional pressure on our financial returns.We may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer.We may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms, if we do not obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on applicable terms, or for other reasons. Moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. Also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger as we grow. Larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions.If we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition:•the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us;•customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us;•suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us;•we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions;•we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting;•we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence;19•we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse affects on our business;•our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention;•we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and•we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders.Claims by OEMs relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business.OEMs and other manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. The OEMs have brought such claims in federal court and with the U.S. International Trade Commission.To the extent OEMs and other manufacturers are seeking and obtaining more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. Lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization.In December 2005 and May 2008, Ford Global Technologies, LLC filed complaints with the International Trade Commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the U.S. infringed on Ford design patents. The parties settled these matters in April 2009 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in March 2020. In January 2014, Chrysler Group, LLC filed a complaint against us in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe Chrysler design patents relating to the Dodge Ram pickup truck. The parties settled this matter in June 2014 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in June 2019. In the event that these license arrangements, or other similar license arrangements with OEMs, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by design patents.If the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, our business could suffer.Our business depends on vehicle accidents and mechanical failures for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. Thus, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new OEM parts, and the condition of roadways. For example, an increase of the acceptance of the ride-sharing business model would reduce the number of vehicles on the road.  Additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. Mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. Moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents.Systems designed to help drivers avoid accidents are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated.   To the extent OEMs install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.The average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year.  Periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. Substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. If vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by OEM warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. Moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles.20Fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results.Our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. After we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. In addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including OEMs, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. The prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. In addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. To the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. The cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. In a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. The prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. If the price of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers.We may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products.Some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. These and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has issued guides which regulate the use of certain terms such as “rebuilt” or “remanufactured” in connection with the sale of automotive parts. Restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations.Most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. Additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. If additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. Certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. If these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. Such events could adversely affect our business.An adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies or a disruption to our supply of inventory could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers.Our business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from Taiwan. We incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of which are located in Asia. If the cost of freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. Furthermore, although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products.  In addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory.  Moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between China, Japan and Taiwan. Because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Additionally, as manufacturers convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process.Most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the U.S. We do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. According to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the U.S. If an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. Moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and others. To the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. Some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. Auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these 21regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. In addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the U.S. As we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher.We also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, OEMs, and others. To the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers.Our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate.Our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. These fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below our published financial guidance and the expectations of public markets, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline.If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives.Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business.We operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks.We have operations in Belgium, Canada, France, Mexico, Sweden, The Netherlands, Taiwan and the U.K., and we may expand our operations in these countries and into other countries. Our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We also incur costs in currencies, other than our functional currencies, in the countries in which we operate. We are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. In addition, Mexico is currently experiencing a heightened level of criminal activity that could affect our ability to maintain our supply of certain aftermarket products.If we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income.Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. As of December 31, 2015, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $2.3 billion. For further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "Goodwill Impairment" in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. We review other intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. As of December 31, 2015, the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $215 million.Our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor laws.A small percentage of our employees are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. From time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. In addition, the U.S. Department of Labor or applicable foreign government agencies could adopt new regulations or interpret existing regulations that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. Also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters.22We also are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, such as the Fair Labor Standards Act, that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. Some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies different than our interpretations. Efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs. If we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies.We rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business.Some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. In the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations.In the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. We may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. Also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated.Our business involves the storage of personal information about our customers and employees.  We have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect this information; however, if we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to damage to our reputation, additional costs, lost sales or possible regulatory action.  The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly changing, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.  There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, and such a breach could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business.Weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers (“DC”s) or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis.  This may affect our ability to timely provide products to our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty.  Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices.  Such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters.We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials.Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls.If customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. The successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  In addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective.  The expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.23We have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. The existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition.Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits.Our operating subsidiaries in our salvage, self-service, and refurbishing operations must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. When we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. Governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. There can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold.New regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business.In August 2012, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. These new requirements impose significant burdens on U.S. public companies. Compliance with the rules requires substantial due diligence in an effort to determine whether products contain the conflict minerals.  The results of such due diligence efforts must be disclosed on an annual basis in a filing with the SEC.Our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. We may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. Further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. Accordingly, these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.If we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed.We use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. We are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. In addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.Regulations that may be issued under the Anti-Car Theft Act could harm our business.In 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use of recycled products by such shops.Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Financial StructureThe market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation.The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions.  The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts’ expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.  Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline.  Additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, 24adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting.Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies.  If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock.The anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and Delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. Our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. Our incorporation under Delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock.Future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price.We and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. We may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall.We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business.As of December 31, 2015, we had $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding, including $480 million under our senior secured credit facilities, $600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due 2023, $410.6 million under our term loan, and $63 million under our accounts receivable securitization program.  As of December 31, 2015, we also had $1.3 billion of undrawn availability (after giving effect to approximately $66 million of outstanding letters of credit) under our revolving credit facilities and $34 million of undrawn availability under our accounts receivable securitization program. On January 29, 2016, we entered into an amendment to our senior secured credit facility to increase the capacity to $3.2 billion (composed of approximately $750 million in term loans and $2.45 billion in a multicurrency revolving credit line). The credit facility matures in January 2021.Our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position.For example, it could:•increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry;•place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt;•limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and•increase our cost of borrowing.In addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase.25Although we are subject to our senior secured credit facilities for so long as they remain in effect, the indenture that governs the senior notes does not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. The indenture contains certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets, sell our assets, make dividends and distributions and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. However, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. In addition, the indenture does not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities, including, without limitation, restrictions on investments, incurring indebtedness or prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates.Our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.Our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to:•incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof);•pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness;•incur liens on assets;•make certain investments or other restricted payments;•engage in transactions with affiliates;•sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies;•guarantee indebtedness; and•alter the business we conduct.As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. Additionally, the senior secured credit facilities and the indenture that governs our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain dispositions of our assets; as a result, our senior secured credit facilities and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations.In addition, we are a holding company and repayment of our indebtedness is dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries 26and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to significant taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. In the event that we do not receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.Our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business.We may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. From time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. Funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from whom we seek financing. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. If we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. In addition, there are restrictions in the indenture that governs our senior notes on our ability to refinance the notes prior to 2018. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected.Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes.Certain borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease.  Moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of our senior notes.A downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes.Credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. We believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates.  A downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities.  A downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affect our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms.   The right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets.Our obligations under the senior notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower’s obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and each guarantor’s obligations under their respective guarantees of the senior secured credit facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned United States subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-United States subsidiaries. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture governing the notes. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the senior notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully.United States federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors.Our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the senior secured credit facilities also guarantee the 27obligations under the senior notes. Our issuance of the senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors under the secured credit facilities and the senior notes may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. Under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or a guarantor’s guarantee, or may subordinate the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee to our or the applicable guarantor’s existing and future indebtedness. While the relevant laws may vary from state to state, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the senior secured credit facilities was incurred, or the senior notes were issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some states, when payments became due under the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee, the borrower, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and:•was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence;•was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or•intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature.A court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the senior secured credit facilities or the issuance of the senior notes. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, a borrower, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if:•the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of its assets;•the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or•it could not pay its debts as they become due.A court might also void the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. In addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the senior secured credit facilities, the senior notes or its guarantee could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor’s creditors, and accordingly the court might direct the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. Although each guarantee contains a “savings clause” intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. Furthermore, in Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TOUSA, Inc. v Citicorp North America, Inc., the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of Florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in the documents relating to our senior secured credit facilities and senior notes was unenforceable. As a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit recently affirmed the liability findings of the Bankruptcy Court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. If the TOUSA decision were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased.To the extent a court avoids the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes, as the case may be, would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. If a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor’s assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor’s other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes, as the case may be. Sufficient funds to repay the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any.Not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our senior secured credit facilities or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations.Not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the senior secured credit facilities or the senior notes. In the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary 28before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the holders of the senior notes. Consequently, claims in respect of the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the senior secured credit facilities and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes represented approximately 33% and 26% of our total revenue and operating income, respectively. In addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximately 35% and 37% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of December 31, 2015 (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts) with respect to both the senior secured credit facilities and the senior notes. Of these amounts, as of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior secured credit facilities had approximately $543.5 million of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $480.5 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facilities but that do not guarantee the notes).We may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer.Upon a change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the senior notes, the holders of the notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Such a change of control would also be an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities. In order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the senior secured credit facilities and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indenture. Such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. Our other debt also may contain restrictions on repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indenture.The definition of change of control in the indenture governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of “all or substantially all” of our assets. There is no precise established definition of the phrase “substantially all” under applicable law. Accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain.In addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indenture governing the senior notes, we will be required to commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indenture, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from certain asset sales. Our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. In particular, our senior secured credit facilities contain provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of amounts due under the senior secured credit facilities. The mandatory prepayment obligations under the senior secured credit facilities will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indenture. Our failure to purchase any such senior notes when required under the indenture would be an event of default under the indenture. Key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing.Many of the covenants in the indenture governing the senior notes will be suspended if the notes are rated investment grade by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. There can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. However, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the senior secured credit facilities, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade.The liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors.The liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally.We rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity.We have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. This arrangement expires in October 2017.  In the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether.29ITEM 1B