ITEM 1A.        RISK
FACTORS

Risks Relating to
Our Business

We face intense
competition from local, national, and internet-based light vehicle products
providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business.

The light vehicle
replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous
suppliers of OEM products, recycled OEM products, aftermarket products, and
refurbished products. Within each of these categories of suppliers, there are
local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national providers,
and internet-based suppliers. Providers of light vehicle replacement products
that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may
decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of light vehicle
replacement products, which may further increase competition. Some of our
current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater
financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer
operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the
insurance and vehicle repair industries. In certain regions of the U.S., local
light vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in
the recycled OEM products industry. As a result of these factors, our competitors
may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their
products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to
serve.


 14 






An adverse change
in our relationships with auction companies or our suppliers could increase our
expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers.

Most of our salvage inventory is obtained from
vehicles offered at salvage auctions by several companies that own auction
facilities in numerous locations across the U.S. We do not have contracts with
any auction company. According to industry analysts, three companies control
over 65% of the salvage auction
market in the U.S. In some localities, the automotive auction business may be
even more highly concentrated. If an auction company prohibited us from
participating in its auctions, or significantly raised its fees, our business
could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential
inability to service our customers. Moreover, we are facing increased
competition in the purchase of salvage vehicles from shredders and scrap
recyclers, internet-based buyers, and others. This increase in the number of
bidders may increase our cost of goods sold for recycled OEM products.

We also acquire some of our inventory directly from
insurance companies, original equipment manufacturers, aftermarket parts
manufacturers, and others. To the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue
these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher
costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers.

In addition, we purchase
aftermarket parts primarily from foreign manufacturers in Taiwan. In the event
that our business relationships with these suppliers deteriorated or
terminated, or in the event that the importing of products into the U.S. from
Taiwan or the exporting of products by Taiwan to the U.S. was disrupted, our
business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting
inability to service our customers.

We may not be able
to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or
restricting the sale of recycled OEM or aftermarket products.

Some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or
severely restricting the sale of certain recycled OEM products that we provide,
such as airbags. These and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or
could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled OEM
products. Restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our
revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations.

We became involved in the aftermarket products
business upon the closing of an acquisition in February 2004. Since 1998,
most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket
products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle
owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. Additional
legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. If additional laws
prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could
have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business.

Certain organizations test
the quality and safety of light vehicle replacement products. In the event that
such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet
applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of
such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of
repairs using such product. Such events could adversely affect our business.

If our business relationships with insurance companies
end, we may lose important sales opportunities.

We rely on business
relationships with several insurance companies. These insurance companies
encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. Our
arrangements with these companies may be terminated at any time. We rely on
these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination
of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely
affect our results of operations.


 15










We are subject to environmental regulations and incur
costs relating to environmental matters.

We are subject to
various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and
safety laws and regulations governing, among other things:

·       the emission and discharge
of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water;

·       the exposure to hazardous
materials; and

·       the generation, handling,
storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of
industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other
hazardous materials.

We are also required to obtain environmental permits
from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or
fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be
fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also become liable if
employees or other third parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials.

Under certain environmental laws, we could be held
responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration
to or from, our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and at third
party waste disposal sites. These laws often impose liability even if the owner
or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such
hazardous substances.

Environmental laws are
complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time.
Our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and
safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or
exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results
of operations, or financial condition.

Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our
operating licenses and permits.

Our operating subsidiaries
must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct
their operations. When we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the
approval of state and local units of government. Governmental agencies often
resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling facility in their communities.
There can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted.
In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and
renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold.

Proposed
regulations under the National Stolen Passenger Motor Vehicle Information
System could harm our business.

In 1992, Congress enacted
the Anti Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. This law included
the establishment of the National Stolen Passenger Motor Vehicle Information
System to track and monitor stolen automotive parts. In April 2002, the
Department of Justice published for comment proposed regulations to implement
this system. The proposed regulations require, among other things, that
insurance companies, salvagers, dismantlers, recyclers, and repairers inspect
salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the vehicle identification
number and the part number for any covered major part that possesses the
vehicle identification number. The requirement to collect this information
would place burdens and costs on us that otherwise would not normally exist,
and could discourage our customers from purchasing our products if the proposed
regulations are adopted.

We could be subject to product liability claims.

If customers of repair
shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we
could be subject to product liability claims. The successful assertion of this
type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business or financial
condition.


 16 






We may lose
business if recent litigation involving the use of aftermarket parts results in
insurance companies modifying arrangements affecting the use of recycled OEM or
aftermarket products in the repair process.

In an Illinois lawsuit
involving State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Avery v. State Farm”), a jury decided in October 1999
that State Farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by
using non-OEM parts to repair damaged vehicles when use of such parts did not
restore the vehicle to its “pre-loss condition.” The jury found that State Farm
misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-OEM parts and the alleged
inferiority of those parts. The jury assessed damages against State Farm of
$456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of
disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the Illinois Consumer Fraud
Act. In April 2001, the Illinois Appellate Court upheld the verdict but
reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage
awards. On August 18, 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the awards
made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs
had failed to establish any breach of contract on the part of State Farm. The
U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of this case. As a result of this
case, some insurance companies had reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket
products. Although our products are primarily recycled OEM parts, we entered
the aftermarket products business through an acquisition in February 2004.
Our financial results could be affected, perhaps adversely, if insurance
companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair
shops buy aftermarket or recycled OEM products from us due to a fear of similar
claims with respect to such products.

If the number of
vehicles involved in accidents declines, our business could suffer.

Because our business
depends on vehicle accidents for both the supply of recycled OEM products and
the demand for repairs using our products, factors which influence the number
and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of
vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use
of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the
congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather
conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, and the condition of
roadways, impact our business. In this regard, a number of states and
municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning
the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving and such restrictions
could lead to a decline in accidents. Moreover, an increase in fuel prices may
cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline as motorists seek
alternative transportation options and this also could lead to a decline in
accidents.

We may not be able
to successfully acquire new operations or integrate future acquisitions, which
could cause our business to suffer.

We may not be able
to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach
agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. If we buy a company or a
division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company’s
or division’s personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our
operating results. In addition:

·       the key personnel of the
acquired company may decide not to work for us;

·       we may experience business
disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions;

·       we may experience
additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such
as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting;

·       we may be held liable for
environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of
which we may not have discovered during our due diligence;

·       our ongoing business may be
disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and


 17 






·       we may not be able to
realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated.

In connection with future
acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. These
liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could
materially and adversely affect our business. We may have to incur debt or
issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of
which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to
our existing stockholders.

Our credit facility
imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries
and requires us to meet certain financial tests.

Our credit facility
contains certain operating and financial restrictions that limit or prohibit us
from engaging in certain transactions, including the following:

·       incurring or guarantying
additional debt;

·       paying dividends or other
distributions to our stockholders or redeeming, repurchasing, or retiring our
capital stock or subordinated obligations;

·       making investments and
capital expenditures;

·       creating liens on our
assets;

·       selling, transferring,
leasing, licensing, or otherwise disposing of assets other than in the ordinary
course of business;

·       engaging in transactions
with stockholders and affiliates;

·       engaging in mergers,
consolidations, or acquisitions;

·       engaging in any material
line of business substantially different from, and unrelated to, those lines of
business currently carried on by us; and

·       making changes to our
equity capital structure or amending our certificate of incorporation, bylaws,
or any stockholder rights agreement.

The credit facility also
requires that we satisfy certain financial tests. The failure to comply with
any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit facility. A
default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case
the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not
be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if
new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us
than our existing credit facility or it may not be on terms that are acceptable
to us.

Our future capital
needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding
that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer.

We may need to raise additional funds in the future
to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our
operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. From time
to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing,
strategic alliances, or other arrangements. If adequate funds are not available
on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic
objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing
equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership
interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of
the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be
subject to further limitations on our operations. If we fail to raise capital
when needed, our business will be negatively affected.


 18










Our annual and
quarterly performance may fluctuate.

Our revenue, cost
of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual
basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as
a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Future
factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to,
the following:

·       fluctuations in the pricing
of new OEM replacement products;

·       the availability and cost
of inventory;

·       variations in vehicle
accident rates;

·       competition in the vehicle
replacement parts industry;

·       changes in state or federal
laws or regulations affecting our business;

·       changes in the types of
replacement parts that insurance carriers will accept in the repair process;

·       our ability to integrate
and manage our acquisitions successfully;

·       fluctuations in fuel
prices;

·       changes in the demand for
our products and the supply of our inventory due to severity of weather and
seasonality of weather patterns;

·       the amount and timing of
operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and
expansion of our business, operations, and infrastructure; and

·       declines in the values of
our assets.

Due to the foregoing
factors, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate.
Accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future
performance. These fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results
to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which
could cause our stock price to decline.

If we lose our key
management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or
achieve our objectives.

Our future success depends
in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management
team and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one
or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them
decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with
us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our
business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the
operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly
qualified personnel, which could harm our business.

We rely on
information technology in critical areas of our operations and a disruption
relating to such technology could harm our business.

We use information technology systems owned by other
companies for management of our facilities and our financial functions. In the
event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with
us, we could suffer disruptions to our operations.

In addition, we
continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. In the event
that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may
also suffer disruptions to our business. We may be unsuccessful in the
development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the 


 19 






costs
and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. Also, our revenue
may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which
period could extend longer than we anticipated.

If we experience
problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed.

We use a fleet of trucks
to deliver the majority of the products we sell. We are subject to the risks
associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather,
disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel,
liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by
insurance, and insurance premium increases. In addition, our failure to deliver
products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

If we determine
that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our
pre-tax income.

Goodwill represents the
excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business
combinations. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a
result of future acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at
least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things,
deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market
conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including
changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. As of December 31,
2006, our total goodwill, subject to future impairment testing, was
approximately $246.2 million.

Challenges to the
validity of aftermarket products could adversely effect our business.

Original equipment manufacturers have attempted to use
claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and
distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of
aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. The original equipment
manufacturers have brought such claims in federal court and with the United
States International Trade Commission.

In December 2005, Ford Global Technologies, LLC
initiated a complaint with the International Trade Commission against six
companies, including a competitor of ours, Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc.,
alleging that certain aftermarket parts imported into the United States
infringed on 14 design patents held by Ford Global. We were not named in the
complaint, although the outcome would affect all persons and entities who
import or distribute the parts, including us. In December 2006, an administrative
law judge of the International Trade Commission preliminarily ruled that seven
of the Ford Global design patents were valid and that the importation of
automotive parts covered by these seven patents violated Section 337 of
the Tariff Act of 1930. The ruling of the administrative law judge is not final.
It will be reviewed by the International Trade Commission. If the International
Trade Commission agrees with the ruling, it will issue an order prohibiting
further importation of automotive parts covered by the patents. The parties to
the action can appeal the Commission’s final decision to the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.

To the extent that the
original equipment manufacturers are successful with intellectual property
infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain
aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. If we
are subsequently named as a defendant in any such claims, we would likely incur
significant expenses defending the claims. Even if we are not named in any such
claims, written allegations that we are infringing another party’s intellectual
property rights could involve significant expense to investigate.


 20 






Risks Relating to
Our Common Stock

Our executive
officers, directors, and their affiliates hold a large percentage of our stock
and their interests may differ from other stockholders.

As of December 31,
2006, our executive officers, directors, and their affiliates, in the
aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 21% of our common stock. If they were to act together, these
stockholders would have significant influence over most matters requiring
approval by stockholders, including the election of directors, any amendments
to our certificate of incorporation, and certain significant corporate
transactions. These stockholders may take these actions even if they are
opposed by our other stockholders. In addition, without the consent of these
stockholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions
that may be viewed as beneficial to us or our other stockholders.

Future sales of our
common stock may depress our stock price.

We and our stockholders
may sell shares of common stock in the future. We may also issue shares of common
stock in connection with the exercise of outstanding options or in connection
with future acquisitions. Certain of our existing stockholders are parties to a
registration rights agreement that provides such holders with the right to
require us to effect the registration of their shares of common stock in
specific circumstances. In addition, if we propose to register any of our
common stock under the Securities Act of 1933, whether for our own account or
otherwise, some existing stockholders may be entitled to include their shares
of common stock in that registration. We cannot predict the size of future
issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and
sales of shares of our common stock will have on the price of our common stock.
Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in
connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur,
may cause the price of our common stock to fall.

Delaware law and
our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect
the price of our stock.

The anti-takeover
provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law
could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a
third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be
beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and
bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and
make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. Our
incorporation under Delaware law and these provisions could also impede a
merger, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a
potential acquiror from making a tender offer for our common stock, which,
under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock.

ITEM 1B