ITEM 1A.      RISK FACTORSRisks Relating to Our BusinessOur operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere.In recent years, worldwide economic conditions have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including the United States, and such conditions may worsen in the foreseeable future.  Such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business.  Our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. The economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending.  Many of these factors are outside of our control.  If any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.  In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and interest rate swap transactions. These unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business.The vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of OEM, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. Within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers. Providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. Some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. In certain regions of the U.S., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry.  Similarly in Europe, some local companies are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry.  As a result of these factors, our 16competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve.We believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by OEMs, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. The OEMs are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. We compete with the OEMs primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. From time to time, OEMs have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products. If such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.  Claims by OEMs relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business.OEMs have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. The OEMs have brought such claims in federal court and with the U.S. International Trade Commission.In December 2005 and May 2008, Ford Global Technologies, LLC filed complaints with the International Trade Commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the U.S. infringed on Ford design patents. The parties settled these matters in April 2009 pursuant to a settlement arrangement that expires in March 2015.  In January 2014, Chrysler Group, LLC filed a complaint against us in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe Chrysler design patents relating to the Dodge Ram pickup truck.  The Chrysler case is pending.To the extent OEMs are seeking and obtaining more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. Lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization.An adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or auction companies could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers.Our business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from Taiwan. Although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. Moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between China, Japan and Taiwan. Because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers.  Additionally, as manufacturers convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. Most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the U.S. We do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. According to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the U.S. If an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. Moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and others. To the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. Some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. Auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. In addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the U.S. As we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher.We also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, OEMs, and others. To the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting 17potential inability to service our customers.We rely upon insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts.Our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies. Alternative parts usage has generally increased over the past ten years but has stabilized recently. There can be no assurance that such usage will be maintained or will increase in the future.  In addition, in some places we operate, alternative parts usage is relatively low. We also rely on business relationships with insurance companies. These insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. The business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. Our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. We rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations.In an Illinois lawsuit involving State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company ("Avery v. State Farm"), a jury decided in October 1999 that State Farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-OEM replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." The jury found that State Farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-OEM replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. The jury assessed damages against State Farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act. In April 2001, the Illinois Appellate Court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. On August 18, 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by State Farm. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of this case. As a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. Our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims.We may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products.Some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. These and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has issued guides which regulate the use of certain terms such as “rebuilt” or “remanufactured” in connection with the sale of automotive parts. Restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations.Most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. Additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. If additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. Certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. If these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. Such events could adversely affect our business.We may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer.We may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. Moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. Also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger as we grow. Larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions.If we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition:18•the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; •customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; •suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us;•we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; •we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; •we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; •we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse affects on our business; •our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; •we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and•we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate.Our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. These fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline.Fluctuations in the prices of metals or shipping costs could adversely affect our financial results.Our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. After we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. In addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles from other companies, including OEMs, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. The prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. In addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. To the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. The cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. In a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. The price of steel is a component of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. We incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of whom are located in Asia. If the cost of steel or freight rose we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers.If we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income.Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. As of December 31, 2013, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $1.9 billion. For further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "Goodwill Impairment" in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, which is based upon the expected period to be benefited.  We review other intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  In the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash 19flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge.  As of December 31, 2013, the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $154 million. If the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, our business could suffer.Our business depends on vehicle accidents and mechanical failures for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts.  Thus, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, the effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new OEM parts, and the condition of roadways.  Additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. Mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease of vehicle accidents. Moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. To the extent OEMs develop or are mandated by law to install new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents could decrease.The average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year.  Periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. Substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs.  If vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by OEM warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life.  Moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles.Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits.Our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. When we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. Governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. There can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold.If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives.Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business.We rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business.Some of the information technology systems and communication systems we use for management of our facilities and our financial functions are leased from or operated by other companies, while others are owned by us. In the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us or if we suffer prolonged outages of these or our own systems for whatever reason, we could suffer disruptions to our operations.In addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. In the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. We may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. Also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could 20extend longer than we anticipated.Our business involves the storage of personal information about our customers and employees.  We have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect this information; however, if we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to damage to our reputation, additional costs, lost sales or possible regulatory action.  The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly changing, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.  There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, and such a breach could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business.Weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers (“DC”s) or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis.  This may affect our ability to timely provide products to our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty.  Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices.  Such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed.We use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. We are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. In addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters.We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials.Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.We could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls.If customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. The successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  In addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective.  The expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.    21We have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. The existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition.Regulations that may be issued under the Anti-Car Theft Act could harm our business.In 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on automotive parts recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use of recycled products by such shops.We operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks.We have operations in the U.K., Canada, Mexico, Taiwan, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Guatemala and Costa Rica, and we may expand our operations into other countries. Our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We also incur costs in currencies, other than our functional currencies, in the countries in which we operate. We are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. In addition, Mexico is currently experiencing a heightened level of criminal activity that could affect our ability to maintain our supply of certain aftermarket products.New regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business.In August 2012, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries. These new requirements will require ongoing due diligence efforts, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in 2014. Our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. We may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. Further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. Accordingly, the implementation of these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.  Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Financial StructureFuture sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price.We and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, "securities") in the future. We may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall.The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation.22The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions.  The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts’ expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.  In addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.  Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline.  Additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may  be, adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting.Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies.  If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business.Delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock.The anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and Delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. Our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. Our incorporation under Delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock.We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business.As of December 31, 2013, we had $1,305.8 million aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding.  Our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position.For example, it could:•increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry;•place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; •limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and •increase our cost of borrowingAs of December 31, 2013, we also had $1,070.6 million of undrawn availability (after giving effect to approximately $45.6 million of outstanding letters of credit) under our revolving credit facility and $80.0 million of undrawn availability under our accounts receivable securitization program. In January 2014, we increased our borrowings under our revolving credit facility by $370 million and borrowed the full amount available under our accounts receivable securitization program, primarily to finance our acquisition of Keystone Specialty.  If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase.Our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.Our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to:23•incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof);•pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness;•incur liens on assets;•make certain investments or other restricted payments;•receive dividend payments or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries; •engage in transactions with affiliates;•sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies;•guarantee indebtedness; and •alter the business that we conduct.As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. Additionally, the senior secured credit facilities limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition of our assets; as a result, our senior secured credit facilities may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations.Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly.Certain borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease.We rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity.We have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market.  This arrangement expires in September 2015.  In the event that the market for commercial paper  were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether.24Our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business.We may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. From time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. However, turmoil in the credit markets could result in tight credit conditions, which could affect our ability to raise additional funds. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. If we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected.A downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior unsecured notes.Credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital.  The evaluations are based upon, among other factors, our financial strength.  We believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates.  A downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities.  A downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our notes, preventing a holder from selling the notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affect our ability to issue new notes in the future.  ITEM 1B