Item 1A — Risk
    Factors” on page 17 for a discussion of certain
    additional business risks specific to our government contracts.


 


    As is common in the U.S. defense industry, we are subject
    to business risks, including changes in the
    U.S. Government’s procurement policies (such as
    greater emphasis on competitive procurement), governmental
    appropriations, national defense policies or regulations,
    service modernization plans, and availability of funds. A
    reduction in expenditures by the U.S. Government for
    products and services of the type we manufacture and provide,
    lower margins resulting from increasingly competitive
    procurement policies, a reduction in the volume of contracts or
    subcontracts awarded to us or the incurrence of substantial
    contract cost overruns could materially adversely affect our
    business.


 


    Certain of our sales are under foreign military sales (FMS)
    agreements directly between the U.S. Government and allied
    foreign governments. In such cases, because we serve only as the
    supplier, we do not have unilateral control over the terms of
    the agreements. These contracts are subject to extensive legal
    and regulatory requirements and, from time to time, agencies of
    the U.S. Government investigate whether our operations are
    being conducted in accordance with these laws and regulations.
    Investigations could result in administrative, civil, or
    criminal liabilities, including repayments, disallowance of
    certain costs, or fines and penalties. Certain of our sales are
    direct commercial sales to allied foreign governments. These
    sales are subject to U.S. Government approval and licensing
    under the Arms Export Control Act. Legal restrictions on sales
    of sensitive U.S. technology also limit the extent to which
    we can sell our products to allied foreign governments or
    private parties.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and
    regulations relating to the discharge, storage, treatment,
    handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials,
    substances and wastes used in our operations. We continually
    assess our obligations and compliance with respect to these
    requirements.


 


    We have also assessed the risk of environmental contamination
    for our various manufacturing facilities, including our acquired
    businesses and, where appropriate, have obtained
    indemnification, either from the sellers of those acquired
    businesses or through pollution liability insurance. We believe
    that our current operations are in substantial compliance with
    all existing applicable environmental laws and permits. We
    believe our current expenditures will allow us to continue to be
    in compliance with applicable environmental laws and
    regulations. While it is difficult to determine the timing and
    ultimate cost to be incurred in order to comply with these laws,
    based upon available internal and external assessments, with
    respect to those environmental loss contingencies of which we
    are aware, we believe that after considering recorded
    liabilities, there are no environmental loss contingencies that,
    individually or in the aggregate, would be material to our
    consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
    flows.


 



    Certain
    Acquired Pension Plans


 


    In connection with our acquisition of ten business units from
    Lockheed Martin and the formation of L-3 in 1997, we assumed
    certain defined benefit pension plan liabilities for present and
    former employees and retirees of certain of these businesses
    from Lockheed Martin. Lockheed Martin had previously received a
    letter from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC),
    indicating that the pension plans of two businesses were under
    funded using the PBGC’s actuarial assumptions (Subject
    Plans).


 


    With respect to the Subject Plans, Lockheed Martin entered into
    an agreement (Lockheed Martin Commitment) with L-3 and the PBGC
    dated as of April 30, 1997. The terms and conditions of the
    Lockheed Martin Commitment include a commitment by Lockheed
    Martin to the PBGC to, under certain circumstances, assume
    sponsorship of the Subject Plans or provide another form of
    financial support for the Subject Plans. The Lockheed Martin
    Commitment will continue until the Subject Plans are no longer
    under funded on a PBGC basis for two consecutive years, or
    immediately if we achieve investment grade credit ratings on all
    of our outstanding debt.


 


    If Lockheed Martin did assume sponsorship of the Subject Plans,
    it would be primarily liable for the costs associated with
    funding the Subject Plans or any costs associated with the
    termination of the Subject Plans. The terms and conditions of
    the Lockheed Martin Commitment would require us to reimburse
    Lockheed Martin for these costs. Lockheed Martin has not assumed
    sponsorship or provided another form of financial support for
    the Subject Plans.


 


    We believe we have performed our obligations under the Lockheed
    Martin Commitment and have not received any communications from
    the PBGC concerning actions that the PBGC contemplates taking in
    respect of the Subject Plans.


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2008, we contributed
    $3 million to the Subject Plans. For subsequent years, our
    funding requirements will depend upon prevailing interest rates,
    return on pension plan assets and underlying actuarial
    assumptions. At December 31, 2008, the aggregate projected
    benefit obligation was $245 million and the aggregate plan
    assets were $144 million for the Subject Plans. At
    December 31, 2008, we have recorded a liability of
    $101 million for the under funded status of the Subject
    Plans.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately
    65,000 full-time and part-time employees, 84% of whom were
    located in the United States. Of these employees, approximately
    15% are covered by 123 separate collective bargaining agreements
    with various labor unions. The success of our business is
    primarily dependent upon the knowledge of our employees and on
    the management, contracting, engineering and technical skills of
    our employees. In addition, our ability to grow our businesses,
    obtain additional orders for our products and services and to
    satisfy contractual obligations under certain of our existing
    revenue



    
    16



Table of Contents




    arrangements is largely dependent upon our ability to attract
    and retain employees who have U.S. Government security
    clearances, particularly those with clearances of top-secret and
    above. We believe that relations with our employees are positive.


 



    L-3
    Holdings Obligations


 


    The only obligations of L-3 Holdings at December 31, 2008
    were: (1) its 3% Convertible Contingent Debt
    Securities (CODES) due 2035, which were issued by L-3 Holdings
    on July 29, 2005, (2) its guarantee of borrowings
    under the senior credit facility of L-3 Communications and
    (3) its guarantee of other contractual obligations of L-3
    Communications and its subsidiaries. L-3 Holdings’
    obligations relating to the CODES have been jointly, severally,
    fully and unconditionally guaranteed by L-3 Communications and
    certain of its wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries. In order to
    generate the funds necessary to repurchase common stock and pay
    dividends declared and principal and interest on its outstanding
    indebtedness, if any, L-3 Holdings relies on dividends and other
    payments from its subsidiaries or it must raise funds in public
    or private equity or debt offerings.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We are subject to the informational requirements of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, in accordance therewith,
    file reports, including annual, quarterly and current reports,
    proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such
    reports and other information can be inspected and copied at the
    Public Reference Room of the SEC located at
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.
    Copies of such material can be obtained from the Public
    Reference Room of the SEC at prescribed rates. You may obtain
    information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by
    calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    Such material may also be accessed electronically by means of
    the SEC’s home page on the Internet at
    http://www.sec.gov.


 


    You may also obtain a free copy of our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and proxy statement for the annual shareholders’ meeting,
    as well as any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after electronic filing with the SEC through our
    website on the Internet at
    http://www.L-3com.com.


 


    The Company also has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can
    access the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and
    charters for the audit, compensation and nominating/corporate
    governance committees of our Board of Directors through our Web
    site,
    http://www.L-3com.com,
    by clicking on the “Corporate Governance” link under
    the heading “Investor Relations.” The Company posts
    its Code of Ethics and Business Conduct on its Corporate
    Governance webpage under the link “Code of Ethics and
    Business Conduct.” The Company’s Code of Ethics and
    Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and
    employees, including our chairman, president and chief executive
    officer, our vice president and chief financial officer, and our
    corporate controller and principal accounting officer. We will
    post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct,
    and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules
    of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
    (“NYSE”), on our Web site within the required periods.
    The information on the Company’s Web site is not
    incorporated by reference into this report. You can request a
    copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct or any other
    corporate governance document or periodic report at no cost by
    contacting (866) INFO-LLL
    (866-463-6555).


 


    To learn more about L-3, please visit the Company’s Web
    site at www.L-3com.com. L-3 uses its Web site as a channel of
    distribution of material Company information. Financial and
    other material information regarding L-3 is routinely posted on
    the Company’s Web site and is readily accessible.


 



    Item 1A. Risk
    Factors


 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors and
    other information contained or incorporated by reference in this
    Form 10-K,
    including “Part II — Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations”. Any of these risks could
    materially adversely affect our business and our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could in
    turn materially adversely affect the price of our common
    stock.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Our contracts (revenue arrangements) with
    U.S. Government customers entail certain risks.


 


    A decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget
    could result in a material decrease in our sales, earnings and
    cash flows.


 


    Our government contracts are primarily dependent upon the
    U.S. defense budget. We, as well as other defense
    contractors, have benefited from increased overall DoD spending
    over recent years, including supplemental appropriations for
    military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Global War on
    Terror (GWOT). The President’s DoD base defense budget
    request, for the government’s fiscal year ending
    September 30, 2009, excluding a fiscal year 2009 GWOT
    supplemental request, indicates continued growth over the fiscal
    year 2008 period. However, future DoD budgets could be
    negatively affected by several factors, including events we
    cannot foresee, U.S. Government budget deficits, current or
    future economic conditions, new administration priorities,
    U.S. national security strategies, a change in spending
    priorities, the cost of sustaining U.S. military and
    related security operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and other
    locales around the world where U.S. military support may be
    pivotal, and other related exigencies and contingencies. While
    we are unable to predict the impact and outcome of these
    uncertainties, the effect of changes in these DoD imperatives
    could cause the DoD budget to remain unchanged or to decline (or
    even to increase). A significant decline in or redirection of
    U.S. military expenditures in the future could result in a
    decrease to our sales, earnings and cash flows. The loss or
    significant reduction in government funding of a large program
    in which we participate could also result in a decrease in our
    future sales, earnings and cash flows. U.S. Government
    contracts are also conditioned upon continuing approval by
    Congress of the amount of necessary spending. Congress usually
    appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal
    year basis, even though contract periods of performance may
    extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a
    major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and
    additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the
    procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for
    future fiscal years. Given the potential for uncertainty in the
    DoD fiscal process as we begin a new political era in the United
    States, and given the dangerous and volatile global condition in
    which the U.S. is a primary stabilizing force, our approach
    to future business planning will include our best assessments
    and judgments on how to account for change and adapt to new
    conditions and circumstances.


 


    We rely predominantly on sales to U.S. Government
    entities, and the loss of a significant number of our contracts
    would have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and cash flows.


 


    Our sales are predominantly derived from contracts (revenue
    arrangements) with agencies of, and prime system contractors to,
    the U.S. Government. The loss of all or a substantial
    portion of our sales to the U.S. Government would have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash
    flows. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately 2,100
    contracts (revenue arrangements) with individual estimated
    contract values in excess of $1 million. Approximately 81%,
    or $12 billion, of our sales for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 were made directly or indirectly to
    U.S. Government agencies, including the DoD. For the year
    ended December 31, 2008, our largest contract (revenue
    arrangement) in terms of annual sales was the U.S. Air
    Force (USAF) Contract Field Teams (CFT) contract, which
    generated 3% of our sales. CFT is a multi-sourced contract,
    which provides worldwide quick reaction maintenance of deployed
    aircraft and ground vehicles for the U.S. military.
    Additionally, aggregate sales from our five largest contracts
    amounted to $1.8 billion, or 12% of our sales.


 


    A substantial majority of our total sales are for products and
    services under contracts with various agencies and procurement
    offices of the DoD or with prime contractors to the DoD.
    Although these various agencies, procurement offices and prime
    contractors are subject to common budgetary pressures and other
    factors, our customers exercise independent purchasing
    decisions. Because of this concentration of contracts, if a
    significant number of our DoD contracts and subcontracts are
    simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary, performance
    or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations and cash flows.



    
    18



Table of Contents




    In addition to contract cancellations and declines in agency
    budgets, our backlog and future financial results may be
    adversely affected by:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    curtailment of the U.S. Government’s use of technology
    or other services and products providers, including curtailment
    due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters;




 



     
        •    

    
    developments in Iraq, Afghanistan or other geopolitical
    developments that affect demand for our products and services;




 



     
        •    

    
    our ability to hire and retain personnel to meet increasing
    demand for our services; and




 



     
        •    

    
    technological developments that impact purchasing decisions or
    our competitive position.





 


    Our government contracts contain unfavorable termination
    provisions and are subject to audit and modification. If a
    termination right is exercised by the government, it could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
    and results of operations.


 


    Companies engaged primarily in supplying defense-related
    equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are
    subject to certain business risks peculiar to the defense
    industry. These risks include the ability of the
    U.S. Government to unilaterally:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of
    alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations;




 



     
        •    

    
    terminate existing contracts;




 



     
        •    

    
    reduce the value of existing contracts;




 



     
        •    

    
    audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated
    indirect costs; and




 



     
        •    

    
    control and potentially prohibit the export of our products.





 


    All of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by
    the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we
    default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination
    for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of
    costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on
    the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default
    provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess
    costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring
    undelivered items from another source. Our contracts with
    foreign governments generally contain similar provisions
    relating to termination at the convenience of the customer.


 


    U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract
    Audit Agency and various agency Inspectors General routinely
    audit and investigate our costs and performance on contracts, as
    well as our accounting and general business practices. Based on
    the results of such audits, the U.S. Government may adjust
    our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated
    indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. Government
    purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most
    financing costs, portions of research and development costs, and
    certain marketing expenses may not be reimbursable under
    U.S. Government contracts.


 


    We may not be able to win competitively awarded contracts or
    receive required licenses to export our products, which would
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and future prospects.


 


    Our government contracts are subject to competitive bidding. We
    obtain many of our U.S. Government contracts through a
    competitive bidding process. We may not be able to continue to
    win competitively awarded contracts. In addition, awarded
    contracts may not generate sales sufficient to result in our
    profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the
    completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen
    technological difficulties
    and/or cost
    overruns;




 



     
        •    

    
    the substantial time, effort and experience required to prepare
    bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may
    not be awarded to us;






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    design complexity and rapid technological obsolescence; and




 



     
        •    

    
    the constant need for design improvement.





 


    In addition to these U.S. Government contract risks, we are
    required to obtain licenses from U.S. Government agencies
    to export many of our products and systems. Additionally, we are
    not permitted to export some of our products. Failure to receive
    required licenses would eliminate our ability to sell our
    products outside the United States.


 


    We are subject to government investigations, which could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and future prospects.


 


    We are from time to time subject to governmental investigations
    relating to our operations. We are currently cooperating with
    the U.S. Government on several investigations, including
    but not limited to, an investigation by the Department of
    Justice Criminal Antitrust Division regarding information
    technology services performed for the Air Force. For a
    discussion of this matter, see the Titan Government
    Investigation in Note 18 to our audited consolidated
    financial statements.


 


    We are subject to the risks of current and future legal
    proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and future
    prospects.


 


    At any given time, we are a defendant in various material legal
    proceedings and litigation matters arising in the ordinary
    course of business, including litigation, claims and assessments
    that have been asserted against acquired businesses, which we
    have assumed. Although we maintain insurance policies, these
    policies may not be adequate to protect us from all material
    judgments and expenses related to potential future claims and
    these levels of insurance may not be available in the future at
    economical prices or at all. A significant judgment against us,
    arising out of any of our current or future legal proceedings
    and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and future
    prospects. For a discussion of the material litigation to which
    we are currently a party, see Note 18 to our audited
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    If we are unable to keep pace with rapidly evolving products
    and service offerings and technological change, there could be a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and future prospects.


 


    The rapid change of technology is a key feature of most of the
    markets in which our products, services and systems oriented
    businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to
    continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market
    and support new products and enhancements on a timely and
    cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been
    developed through customer-funded and internally funded research
    and development and through certain business acquisitions. We
    may not be able to continue to maintain comparable levels of
    research and development or successfully complete such
    acquisitions. In the past, we have allocated substantial funds
    to capital expenditures, programs and other investments. This
    practice will continue to be required in the future. Even so, we
    may not be able to successfully identify new opportunities and
    may not have the needed financial resources to develop new
    products in a timely or cost-effective manner. At the same time,
    products and technologies developed by others may render our
    products, services and systems obsolete or non-competitive.


 


    Our business acquisition strategy involves risks, and we may
    not successfully implement our strategy.


 


    We seek to selectively acquire businesses that add new products,
    technologies, programs or customers to our existing businesses.
    We may not be able to continue to identify acquisition
    candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we
    make additional acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits
    anticipated from these acquisitions, including cost synergies
    and improving margins. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain
    additional financing for acquisitions, since such additional
    financing could be restricted or limited by the terms of our
    debt agreements or due to unfavorable credit market conditions.


 


    The process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses
    into our existing operations may result in unforeseen
    difficulties and may require significant financial and
    managerial resources that would otherwise be



    
    20



Table of Contents




    available for the ongoing development or expansion of our
    existing operations. Possible future business acquisitions could
    result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest
    expense and contingent liabilities, each of which could result
    in an increase to our already significant level of outstanding
    debt, as well as more restrictive covenants. We consider and
    execute strategic acquisitions on an ongoing basis and may be
    evaluating acquisitions or engage in acquisition negotiations at
    any given time. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and
    joint venture transactions, and, except as disclosed in
    “Part II — Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Business Acquisitions and
    Business and Product Line Dispositions” beginning on
    page 36, we have not entered into any agreements with
    respect to any material transactions at this time. Furthermore,
    in certain of our business acquisitions we have assumed all
    claims against and liabilities of the acquired business,
    including both asserted and unasserted claims and liabilities.


 


    Goodwill represents a significant asset on our balance sheet. We
    review goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also review
    goodwill annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142,
    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). The
    annual impairment test is based on determining the fair value of
    our reporting units. A decline in the estimated fair value of a
    reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a
    related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if
    estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the
    carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit,
    including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value
    of a reporting unit could result in an adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations. See
    “Part II — Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting
    Policies” beginning on page 38.


 


    Our results of operations and cash flows are substantially
    affected by our mix of fixed-price,
    cost-reimbursable
    and
    time-and-material
    type contracts.


 


    Our sales are transacted using written revenue arrangements, or
    contracts, which are generally either fixed-price,
    cost-reimbursable or
    time-and-material.
    For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see
    “Part II — Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting
    Policies” beginning on page 38.


 


    The table below presents the percentage of our total sales
    generated from each contract-type as of December 31, 2008.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




 


 


    % of
    


 





    Contract-Type



 



    Total Sales



 



 





    Fixed-price



 


 


    54


    %





    Cost-reimbursable



 


 


    27


    %





    Time-and-material



 


 


    19


    %




 


 


 


 


 





    Total sales



 


 


    100


    %




 


 


 


 


 








 


    Substantially all of our cost-reimbursable and
    time-and-material
    type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the
    DoD. Substantially all of our sales to commercial customers are
    transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements, and are
    included in our fixed-price type contract sales.


 


    On a fixed-price type contract (revenue arrangement), we agree
    to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined
    sales price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally
    permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs
    are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk
    that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or
    cause us to sustain losses on the contract.


 


    On a cost-reimbursable type contract (revenue arrangement), we
    are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit which can be
    fixed or variable depending on the contract’s fee
    arrangement up to predetermined funding levels determined by our
    customers. On a
    time-and-material
    type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid on the basis of
    direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly
    rates (that include wages, overhead, allowable general and
    administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost.
    Therefore, on cost-



    
    21



Table of Contents




    reimbursable type and
    time-and-material
    type contracts, we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost
    overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the
    predetermined funded amounts.


 


    Additionally, the impact of revisions in profit or loss
    estimates for all types of contracts subject to percentage of
    completion accounting are recognized on a cumulative
    catch-up
    basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Provisions
    for anticipated losses on contracts are recorded in the period
    in which they become evident. Amounts representing contract
    change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can
    be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably
    assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant,
    can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows,
    as well as reduce the valuations of receivables and inventories;
    and in some cases, result in liabilities to complete contracts
    in a loss position.


 


    Intense competition in the industries in which our businesses
    operate could limit our ability to attract and retain
    customers.


 


    The defense industry and the other industries in which our
    businesses operate and the market for defense applications is
    highly competitive. We expect that the DoD’s increased use
    of commercial
    off-the-shelf
    products and components in military equipment will continue to
    encourage new competitors to enter the market. We also expect
    that competition for original equipment manufacturing business
    will increase due to the continued emergence of merchant
    suppliers. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than
    we are and have more financial and other resources than we have.
    For more information concerning the factors that affect our
    ability to compete, see “Part I —
    Item 1 — Business — Competition”
    beginning on page 13.


 


    Our significant level of debt and our ability to make
    payments on or service our indebtedness may adversely affect our
    financial and operating activities or ability to incur
    additional debt.


 


    In prior years we incurred substantial indebtedness to finance
    our business acquisitions. At December 31, 2008, we had
    approximately $4,550 million in aggregate principal amount
    of outstanding debt, which includes a $650 million term
    loan facility. In addition, at December 31, 2008, we had
    additional borrowing capacity of $940 million available to
    us under our revolving credit facility, after reductions of
    $60 million for outstanding letters of credit. In the
    future, we may increase our borrowings, subject to limitations
    imposed on us by our debt agreements. The first scheduled
    maturity of our existing debt is our senior credit facility,
    comprised of the $650 million term loan facility and the
    revolving credit facility, on March 9, 2010. For further
    discussion concerning the scheduled maturity of our senior
    credit facility, see “Part II —
    Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Anticipated Sources of Cash Flow” on
    page 51.


 


    Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest
    on our indebtedness and to refinance our existing debt,
    including the scheduled maturity of our senior credit facility,
    depends on our future financial performance as well as our
    ability to access the capital markets, and the relative
    attractiveness of available financing terms. We do not have
    complete control over our future financial performance because
    it is subject to economic, political, financial (including
    credit market conditions), competitive, regulatory and other
    factors affecting the aerospace and defense industry, as well as
    commercial industries in which we operate. It is possible that
    in the future our business may not generate sufficient cash flow
    from operations to allow us to service our debt and make
    necessary capital expenditures. If this situation occurs, we may
    have to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, restructure debt
    or obtain additional equity capital. We may not be able to do so
    in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms in accordance with
    the restrictions contained in our debt agreements.


 


    Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us.
    These consequences may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    requiring a substantial portion of our net cash flow from
    operations to be used to pay interest and principal on our debt
    and therefore be unavailable for other purposes, including
    acquisitions, capital expenditures, paying dividends to our
    shareholders, repurchasing shares of our common stock, research
    and development and other investments;




 



     
        •    

    
    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for
    acquisitions, working capital, investments or other
    expenditures, which, in each case, may limit our ability to
    carry out our acquisition strategy;




 



     
        •    

    
    increasing interest expenses due to higher interest rates on our
    borrowings that have variable interest rates;






    
    22



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in
    the general economy and restricting us from making acquisitions,
    introducing new technologies and products or exploiting business
    opportunities; and




 



     
        •    

    
    impacting debt covenants that limit our ability to borrow
    additional funds, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or
    repurchase shares of our common stock. Failure to comply with
    such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not
    cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our
    outstanding indebtedness.





 


    Additionally, on December 31, 2008, we had
    $9,556 million of contractual obligations (including
    outstanding indebtedness). For a detailed listing of the
    components of our contractual obligations, see
    “Part II — Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Contractual
    Obligations” on page 56.


 


    Our debt agreements restrict our ability to finance our
    future operations and, if we are unable to meet our financial
    ratios, could cause our existing debt to be accelerated.


 


    Our debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants
    that, among other things, restrict our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    sell assets;




 



     
        •    

    
    incur more indebtedness;




 



     
        •    

    
    repay certain indebtedness;




 



     
        •    

    
    pay dividends on the common stock of L-3 Holdings;




 



     
        •    

    
    make certain investments or business acquisitions;




 



     
        •    

    
    repurchase or redeem capital stock;




 



     
        •    

    
    make certain capital expenditures;




 



     
        •    

    
    engage in business mergers or consolidations; and




 



     
        •    

    
    engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates.





 


    These restrictions could impair our ability to finance our
    future operations or capital needs or engage in other business
    activities that may be in our interest. In addition, some of our
    debt agreements also require us to maintain compliance with
    certain financial ratios, including (1) total consolidated
    earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
    to total consolidated cash interest expense and (2) total
    consolidated funded indebtedness less designated cash balances
    to total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes,
    depreciation and amortization. Our ability to comply with these
    ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our
    control. A breach of any of these agreements or our inability to
    comply with the required financial ratios or covenants could
    result in a default under those debt agreements. In the event of
    any such default, the lenders under those debt agreements could
    elect to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees to be
    due and immediately payable;




 



     
        •    

    
    require us to apply all of our available cash to repay our
    outstanding senior debt; and




 



     
        •    

    
    prevent us from making debt service payments on our other debt.





 


    For further discussion of our financial ratios, debt agreements
    and other payment restrictions, see Note 10 to our audited
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    If we are unable to attract and retain key management and
    personnel, we may become unable to operate our business
    effectively.


 


    Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the
    continued contributions of our management, and our ability to
    attract and retain highly qualified management and technical
    personnel, including employees who have U.S. Government
    security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and
    above.



    
    23



Table of Contents




    We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies for
    members of our management. We face competition for management
    and technical personnel from other companies and organizations.
    Failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our
    future prospects.


 


    Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to
    significant liability.


 


    Our operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state
    and local as well as certain foreign environmental laws and
    regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to
    the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and
    remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in
    our operations.


 


    New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws
    and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown
    contamination or the imposition of new
    clean-up
    requirements may require us to incur a significant amount of
    additional costs in the future and could decrease the amount of
    free cash flow available to us for other purposes, including
    capital expenditures, research and development and other
    investments and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and future
    prospects.


 


    Termination of our backlog of orders could negatively impact
    our results of operations and cash flows.


 


    We currently have a backlog of funded orders, primarily under
    contracts with the U.S. Government. Our total funded
    backlog was $11,572 million at December 31, 2008. As
    described above, the U.S. Government may unilaterally
    modify or terminate its contracts. Accordingly, most of our
    backlog could be modified or terminated by the
    U.S. Government, which would negatively impact our results
    of operations and cash flows.


 


    Our sales to certain foreign customers expose us to risks
    associated with operating internationally.


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales to foreign
    customers, excluding our foreign sales made under foreign
    military sales (FMS) agreements directly between the
    U.S. Government and allied foreign governments, represented
    approximately 11% of our consolidated sales. Consequently, our
    businesses are subject to a variety of risks that are specific
    to international operations, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict
    exports;




 



     
        •    

    
    compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
    (FCPA);




 



     
        •    

    
    the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties
    and technical standards and changes in those regulations;




 



     
        •    

    
    contract award and funding delays;




 



     
        •    

    
    potential restrictions on transfers of funds;




 



     
        •    

    
    foreign currency fluctuations;




 



     
        •    

    
    import and export duties and value added taxes;




 



     
        •    

    
    transportation delays and interruptions;




 



     
        •    

    
    uncertainties arising from foreign local business practices and
    cultural considerations; and




 



     
        •    

    
    potential military conflicts and political risks.





 


    While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the
    potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of our
    foreign business, we cannot ensure that such measures will be
    adequate.


 


    Global economic recession, continued tightening of credit
    markets, and U.S. Government intervention in financial and other
    industries may adversely affect our results.


 


    Domestic and foreign economies and equity and fixed income
    markets have recently experienced significant declines, and
    severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. These
    economic conditions are currently negatively impacting, and
    could continue to adversely affect, our sales to the commercial
    markets in which we operate, including our commercial aviation
    products and commercial shipbuilding products businesses. Sales
    to commercial customers were $1.7 billion for 2008, or
    11.2% of our total sales.



    
    24



Table of Contents




    Additionally, while we are unable to predict the impact and
    outcome of these economic events and the U.S. Government’s
    intervention to shore up financial and other industries, these
    events could also negatively affect future U.S. defense budgets
    and spending and, consequently, our financial condition, results
    of operations and cash flows. Sales to the DoD represented 74%
    of our total sales for 2008.


 


    These economic conditions could also continue to adversely
    affect our pension plan funded status and annual pension
    expense. See “Part II — Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Pension Plans” on page 53 and
    Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B