ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORSA description of the risk factors associated with the Company is set forth below. In addition to the risk factors discussed below, see “Factors Affecting Future Operating Results” included in “Management's Discussion and Analysis” for further discussion of other risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company.Erratic consumer and/or corporate spending due to uncertainties in the macroeconomic environment could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.We depend on demand from the industrial, communication, computer, consumer and automotive end-markets we serve. Our revenues and profitability are based on certain levels of consumer and corporate spending. Reductions or other fluctuations in consumer and/or corporate spending as a result of uncertain conditions in the macroeconomic environment, such as government economic or fiscal instability, restricted global credit conditions, reduced demand, imbalanced inventory levels, mortgage failures, fluctuations in interest rates, higher energy prices, or other conditions, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The Company's customers have been reducing their inventories more than anticipated.  The impact of the natural disasters in Japan and general economic sluggishness relating to US and European debt issues appear to have left customers cautious and delaying orders until the current economic picture becomes clearer. Sudden adverse shifts in the business cycle could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic downturns at various times.  The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations.  The growth rate of the global economy is one of the factors affecting demand for semiconductor components.  Many factors could adversely affect regional or global economic growth including turmoil or depressed conditions in financial or credit markets, depressed business or consumer confidence, inventory excesses, increased unemployment, inflation for goods, services or materials, rising interest rates in the United States and the rest of the world, a significant act of terrorism which disrupts global trade or consumer confidence, geopolitical tensions including war and civil unrest, reduced levels of economic activity, or disruptions of international transportation.  Typically, our ability to meet our revenue and profitability goals and projections is dependent to a large extent on the orders we receive from our customers within the period and by our ability to match inventory and current production mix with the product mix required to fulfill orders on hand and orders received within a period for delivery in that period.  Because of this complexity in our business, no assurance can be given that we will achieve a match of inventory on hand, production units, and shippable orders sufficient to realize quarterly or annual revenue and net income goals. The effects of the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results On March 11, 2011, the northeast coast of Japan experienced a severe earthquake, a tsunami, and continuing seismic aftershocks. These geological events have caused significant damage in the region, including severe damage to nuclear power plants which has impacted Japan's power and some of its infrastructure all of which is having an impact on its economy.  Geographically, the Japan market represents approximately 15% of the Company's revenues.  In addition, certain of the Company's non-Japanese customers integrate components or use materials manufactured in Japan in the production of their products.  Lastly, certain of the Company's raw material suppliers are located in Japan.  Accordingly, the Company's revenues and profitability could be affected to the extent that the Company's Japanese customers' production facilities as well as its non Japanese suppliers have been affected.  The Company has generally obtained alternative sources of supply and currently believes these events will not have a material impact to its financial condition and operating results. Uncertainty exists with respect to the availability of electrical power and damage to nuclear power plants and other infrastructure in Japan. Thus, there is a risk that the Company could in the future experience delays or other constraints in obtaining 13key raw materials.  This could result in lower revenue and/or higher costs which could materially affect the Company's financial condition and operating results. Volatility in customer demand in the semiconductor industry could affect future levels of sales and profitability and limit our ability to predict such levels. Historically, we have maintained low lead times, which have enabled customers to place orders close to their true needs for product. In defining our financial goals and projections, we consider inventory on hand, backlog, production cycles and expected order patterns from customers.  If our estimates in these areas become inaccurate, we may not be able to meet our revenue goals and projections.  In addition, some customers require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even some, of the products.  As a result, in any quarterly fiscal period we are subject to the risk of cancellation of orders leading to a fall-off of sales and backlog.  Further, those orders may be for products that meet the customer's unique requirements so that those cancelled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsalable products, and thus potential inventory write-offs.  We routinely estimate inventory reserves required for such products, but actual results may differ from these reserve estimates. We generate revenue from thousands of customers worldwide and our revenues are diversified by end-market and geographical region.  Our results in any period, or sequence of periods, may be positively affected by the fact that a customer has designed one of our products into one of their high selling products.  This positive effect may not last, however, as our customers frequently redesign their high selling products, especially to lower their products' costs.  In such redesigns, they may decide to no longer use our product or may seek pricing terms from us that we choose not to accede to, thus resulting in the customer ceasing or significantly decreasing its purchases from us.  The loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by a portion of our customer base, for this or other reasons, such as changes in purchasing practices, could adversely affect our results of operations.  In addition, the timing of customers' inventory adjustments may adversely affect our results of operations.We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products required to maintain or expand our business. The markets for our products depend on continued demand for our products in the communications, industrial, computer, high-end consumer and automotive end-markets. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development.  New product offerings by competitors and customer demands for increasing linear integrated circuit performance or lower prices may render our products less competitive over time, thus necessitating our continual development of new products.  New product introductions are thus a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future sales growth and sustained or increased profitability, but they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues.  The success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, sales and service. Although we believe that the high performance segment of the linear integrated circuit market is generally less affected by price erosion or by significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development than other semiconductor market sectors, future operating results may reflect substantial period-to-period fluctuations due to these or other factors. Our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems. We rely on our internal manufacturing facilities located in California and Washington to fabricate most of our wafers. We depend on outside silicon foundries for a small portion (less than 5%) of our wafer fabrication. We could be adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake, which could cause temporary loss of capacity, loss of raw materials, and damage to manufacturing equipment.  Additionally, we rely on our internal and external assembly and testing facilities located in Singapore and Malaysia.  We are subject to economic and political risks inherent to international operations, including changes in local governmental policies, currency fluctuations, transportation delays and the imposition of export controls or increased import tariffs. We could be adversely affected if any such changes are applicable to our foreign operations. Our manufacturing yields are a function of product design and process technology, both of which are developed by us.  The manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex.  We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs.  To the extent we do not achieve acceptable 14manufacturing yields or there are delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  In addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. Our dependence on third party foundries and other manufacturing subcontractors may cause delays beyond our control in delivering our products to our customers. A portion of our wafers (approximately 5% to 15%) are processed offshore by independent assembly subcontractors located in Malaysia and Thailand.  These subcontractors separate wafers into individual circuits and assemble them into various finished package types.  During periods of increasing demand and volatile lead times, sub-contractors can become over committed and therefore unable to meet all of their customer demand requirements thereby causing inconsistencies in availability of supply. In addition, reliability problems experienced by our assemblers could cause problems in delivery and quality, resulting in potential product liability to us.  We could also be adversely affected by political disorders, labor disruptions, and natural disasters in these locations. We are dependent on outside silicon foundries for a small portion (less than 5%) of our wafer fabrication.  As a result, we cannot directly control delivery schedules for these products, which could lead to product shortages, quality assurance problems and increases in the cost of our products.  We may experience delays in delivering our products to our customers.  If these foundries are unable or unwilling to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers conforming to our quality standards, our business and relationships with our customers for the limited quantities of products produced by these foundries could be adversely affected.  Finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible.  In addition, the manufacture of our products is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a highly controlled environment.  Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by a third party foundry could adversely affect the foundry's ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. We rely on third party vendors for materials, supplies, critical manufacturing equipment and freight services that may not have adequate capacity or may be impacted by outside influences such as natural disasters that could impact our product delivery requirements. The semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. As a result of increasing demand from semiconductor and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, have from time to time, over the past several years, been in short supply and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand continues to increase in the future. In addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production.  We do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these equipment, materials, supplies, and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to achieve our planned production. A number of our products use components that are purchased from third parties.  Supplies of these components may not be sufficient to meet all customer requested delivery dates for products containing the components, which could adversely affect future sales and earnings.  Additionally, significant fluctuations in the purchase price for these components could affect gross margins for the products involved.  Suppliers could also discontinue the manufacture of such purchased products or could have quality problems that could affect our ability to meet customer commitments.  Our manufacturing processes rely on critical manufacturing equipment purchased from third party suppliers. During periods of increasing demand we could experience difficulties or delays in obtaining additional critical manufacturing equipment.  In addition, suppliers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment are sometimes unable to deliver test and/or fabrication equipment to a schedule or equipment performance specification that meets our requirements.  Delays in delivery of equipment needed for growth could adversely affect our ability to achieve our manufacturing and revenue plans in the future. We rely on third parties including freight forwarders, airlines, and ground transportation companies to deliver our products to customers. Interruptions in the ability of these third parties to deliver our products to customers due to geological events such volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, hurricanes or other such natural disasters may cause a temporary delay in meeting our shipping estimates and schedules.We are exposed to business, economic, political and other risks through our significant worldwide operations. 15During fiscal year 2011, 73% of our revenues were derived from customers in international markets. Also, the Company has test and assembly facilities in Singapore and Malaysia. Accordingly, we are subject to the economic and political risks inherent in international sales and operations and their impact on the United States economy in general, including the risks associated with ongoing uncertainties and political and economic instability in many countries around the world as well as the economic disruption from financial and economic declines or turmoil, dysfunction in the credit markets, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or the response to any of the foregoing by the United States and other major countries. Currently, global economic conditions could be adversely affected by the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan.We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. While we attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection, we believe that our success also depends on increasing our technological expertise, continuing our development of new products and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.  However, we may be unable to protect our technology in all instances, or our competitors may develop similar or more competitive technology independently.  We currently hold a number of United States and foreign patents and pending patent applications.  However, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the United States or foreign governments issue to us or these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications.  In addition, the rights granted or anticipated under any of these patents or pending patent applications may be narrower than we expect or, in fact provide no competitive advantages.  Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, copyright, maskwork and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. We may incur significant legal costs to protect our intellectual property. We also seek to protect our proprietary technology, including technology that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors' rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants.  We cannot assure you that these agreements will always be undertaken or will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. We have received, and may receive in the future, notices of claims of infringement and misappropriation of other parties' proprietary rights.  In the event of an adverse decision in a patent, trademark, copyright, maskwork or trade secret action, we could be required to withdraw the product or products found to be infringing from the market or redesign products offered for sale or under development.  Whether or not these infringement claims are successfully asserted, we would likely incur significant costs and diversion of our resources with respect to the defense of these claims.  In the event of an adverse outcome in any litigation, we may be required to pay substantial damages, including enhanced damages for willful infringement, and incur significant attorneys' fees, as well as indemnify customers for damages they might suffer if the products they purchase from us infringe intellectual property rights of others.  We could also be required to stop our manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of some processes, or obtain licenses to intellectual property rights covering products and technology that we may, or have been found to, infringe or misappropriate such intellectual property rights. Our products may contain defects that could affect our results of operations. Our products may contain undetected errors or defects.  Such problems may cause delays in product introductions and shipments, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, cause us to incur increased charges due to obsolete or unusable inventory, require design modifications, or decrease market acceptance or customer satisfaction with these products, which could result in product returns.  In addition, we may not find defects or failures in our products until after commencement of commercial shipments, which may result in loss or delay in market acceptance and could significantly harm our operating results.  Our current or potential customers also might seek to recover from us any losses resulting from defects or failures in our products; further, such claims might be significantly higher than the revenues and profits we receive from our products involved as we are usually a component supplier with limited value content relative to the value of a complete system or sub-system.  Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages for which we may have insufficient insurance coverage.  Any of these claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our reputation and business. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees.  The loss of the services of key officers, technical personnel or other key employees could harm the business.  Our success depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, develop and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel.  Failure to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could harm us. 16We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future. We compete in the high performance segment of the linear market. Our competitors include among others, Analog Devices, Inc., Intersil, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation and Texas Instruments, Inc. Competition among manufacturers of linear integrated circuits is intense, and certain of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than us.  The principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line and delivery capabilities. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to larger companies with broader product lines and greater technical service and support capabilities. Environmental liabilities could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs. Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the storage, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in semiconductor processing.  Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations, and we believe that our activities conform to present environmental regulations.  Increasing public attention has, however, been focused on the environmental impact of electronics manufacturing operations.  While we to date have not experienced any materially adverse business effects from environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not require us to acquire costly remediation equipment or to incur substantial expenses to comply with such regulations.  Any failure by us to control the storage, use or disposal of, or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to significant liabilities. Our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region.  We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities.  Our effective tax rate as well as the actual tax ultimately payable could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability.  In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Finally, jurisdictions could change their tax regulations to include profits that were previously exempt.We are leveraged, and our debt obligations may affect our business, operating results and financial condition.On July 3, 2011, we have debt outstanding of $845.1 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.00% Convertible Senior Notes due May 1, 2027 (the “2027A Notes” or the “Notes”).  Debt service obligations arising from the Notes could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including by: •limiting our ability to obtain in the future, if needed, financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes;•limiting our flexibility in implementing our business strategy and in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to any of our competitors who have lower levels of debt; •decreasing our debt ratings and increasing our cost of borrowed funds; •making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; •subjecting us to the risk of being forced to refinance at higher interest rates these amounts when due; and•requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt instead of contributing those funds to other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes. Our stock price may be volatile.  The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general United States and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, the hedging of our common stock and other derivative transactions by third parties, and new reports relating to trends in our markets or those of our customers.  Additionally, lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. The stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility 17that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  As our Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of our Notes.  In addition, to the extent we deliver common stock on conversion of the Notes, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders may be diluted. Sales in the public market of common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock, as could the anticipated conversion of the Notes.  We may not have the ability to repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon their conversion if and as required by the indentures governing the Notes. Holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes for cash on specified dates or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. The $845.1 million principal amount of our 2027A Notes can be redeemed by us at any time on or after May 1, 2014.  We presently intend to repurchase the 2027A Notes on May 1, 2014, however, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the 2027A Notes in cash or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, upon conversion of the 2027A Notes we will be required to make cash payments to the holders of the 2027A Notes equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the 2027A Notes being converted and the conversion value of those 2027A Notes.  Such payments could be significant, and we may not have sufficient funds to make them at such time.  Moreover, even if we do have sufficient funds to repurchase the 2027A Notes and make any additional required payments, doing so could reduce our working capital below levels that we believe are necessary or appropriate for the ongoing operation of our business.  In such case, we might be forced to raise additional financing at the time of the repurchase or thereafter until cash generated from operations can restore working capital to the desired level.Our failure to repurchase the Notes or convert the Notes into cash or a combination of cash and shares upon exercise of a holder's conversion right in accordance with the provisions of the indentures would constitute a default under the applicable indenture.  In addition, a default under either indenture could lead to a default under existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness.  If, due to a default, the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness and the Notes. A fundamental change may also constitute an event of default under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. The terms of the 2027A Notes and related provisions in the indentures subject noteholders to risks.  Noteholders should be aware of the following risks, in addition to those described for holders of our common stock:   •We are not restricted from taking actions or incurring additional debt (including secured debt) which may affect our ability to make payments under the Notes,  •The Notes are not secured by any of our assets or those of our subsidiaries and are effectively subordinated to any secured debt we may incur.  In any liquidation, dissolution, bankruptcy or other similar proceeding, holders of our secured debt may assert rights against any assets securing such debt in order to receive full payment of their debt before those assets may be used to pay the holders of the Notes. In such an event, we may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the Notes.  In addition, none of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our obligations under, or have any obligation to pay any amounts due on, the Notes.  As a result, the Notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries, including trade payables,•The fundamental change provisions in the Notes and the indentures may not require us to offer to repurchase the Notes in the event of certain transactions.  For example, any leveraged recapitalization, refinancing, restructuring, or acquisition initiated by us will generally not constitute a fundamental change requiring us to repurchase the Notes;•The liquidity of the trading market in the Notes, and the market price quoted for these Notes, may be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in, or other factors affecting, the market prices of our common stock, changes in the overall market for debt securities, and prevailing interest rates,•The conversion rates of the Notes may not adjust for certain events, such as a third-party tender or exchange offer or an issuance of our common stock for cash.  In addition, adjustments in conversion rates may not adequately compensate noteholders for any lost value in the Notes as a result of a particular transaction,•The sale of the Notes and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes depends upon the continued maintenance of a registration statement filed with the SEC covering the resale of the Notes, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws; and,18•Noteholders are not entitled to any rights as holders of our common stock although, given that the Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, they may be affected by any change relating to the common stock.Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include anti-takeover provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party. Our organizational documents and Delaware law contain provisions that might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management.  Our Board of Directors may also choose to adopt further anti-takeover measures without stockholder approval.  The existence and adoption of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.ITEM 1B