Item 1A.Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company. It is possible that our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.•Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and highly uncertain; we may not succeed in developing or acquiring commercially successful products to replace revenues of products losing intellectual property protection. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in human pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market typically takes a decade or more and often costs well in excess of $1 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in the process after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and payer reimbursement, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies are establishing increasingly high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products; delays and uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval processes in other countries can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict sales growth rates of new products.We cannot state with certainty when or whether our products now under development will be approved or launched; whether we will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire additional product candidates or products; or whether our products, once launched, will be commercially successful. We must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing 16products sufficient both to cover our substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose intellectual property exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short-term or long-term would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial position and prospects.•We face intense competition from multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and lower-cost generic manufacturers.  We compete with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical needs. Our product revenues can be adversely affected by the introduction by competitors of branded products that are perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, and by generic versions of other products in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See Item 1, “Business—Competition,” for more details.•We depend on products with intellectual property protection for most of our revenues, cash flows, and earnings; we have lost or will lose effective intellectual property protection for many of those products in the next several years, which may result in rapid and severe declines in revenues.A number of our top-selling human pharmaceutical products recently have lost, or will lose in the next several years, significant patent protection and/or data protection in the U.S. as well as key countries outside the United States, as illustrated in the tables below:ProductU.S. Revenues(2013)($ in millions)Percent of Worldwide Revenues(2013)U.S. Patent / Data ProtectionCymbalta$3,960.817%Compound patent plus pediatric exclusivity December 2013Humalog1,521.47%Compound patent May 2013 Alimta1,209.15%Compound patent plus pediatric exclusivity 2017; Vitamin dosage regimen patent plus pediatric exclusivity 2022Cialis942.84%Compound patent 2017Evista772.03%Use patents March 2014Strattera446.32%Compound patent plus pediatric exclusivity 2017Effient376.92%Compound patent 2017ProductRevenues Outside U.S.(2013)($ in millions)Percent of Worldwide Revenues(2013)Patent / Data Protection - Major Europe / JapanAlimta$1,493.96%Major European countries: compound patent 2015, vitamin dosage regimen patent 2021Japan: compound patent 2015, use patent to treat cancer concomitantly with vitamins 2021Cialis1,216.65%Major European countries: compound patent 2017 Cymbalta1,123.65%Major European countries: data package protection 2014 Japan: data package protection 2018 Zyprexa1,071.25%Japan: Compound patent 2015For non-biological products, loss of exclusivity (whether by expiration or as a consequence of litigation) typically results in the entry of one or more generic competitors, leading to a rapid and severe decline in revenues. For biological products (such as Humalog, Humulin, and Erbitux), loss of exclusivity may or may not result in the near-term entry of competitor versions (i.e., biosimilars) due to development timelines, manufacturing challenges, and/or uncertainties in the regulatory pathways for approval of the competitor versions. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Executive Overview—Legal, Regulatory, and Other Matters,” and Item 1, "Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights," for more details. 17•Our long-term success depends on intellectual property protection; if our intellectual property rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business will be adversely affected. Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in research and development and capital as well as other expenditures required to bring new drugs to the market.Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to invalidate our human pharmaceutical patents; as a result, we expect that our U.S. patents on major pharmaceutical products will be routinely challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld. We face generic manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as well. The entry of generic competitors typically results in rapid and severe declines in sales. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in our being unable to market a product in a particular territory or being required to pay damages for past infringement or royalties on future sales. See Item 1, “Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights,” and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16, Contingencies," for more details.•Our human pharmaceutical business is subject to increasing government price controls and other restrictions on pricing, reimbursement, and access for our drugs. The continuing prominence of U.S. budget deficits as both a policy and political issue increases the risk that taxes, fees, rebates, or other federal measures that would further reduce pharmaceutical companies’ revenue or increase expenses may be enacted. Certain federal and state health care proposals, including state price controls, continue to be debated, and could place downward pressure on pharmaceutical industry sales or prices. The Medicare Independent Payment Advisory Board established under the Affordable Care and Patient Protection Act is empowered to recommend cost reduction policies under certain circumstances. These proposals, if implemented, could negatively affect revenues.  International operations also are generally subject to extensive price and market regulations. Proposals for cost-containment measures are pending in a number of countries, including proposals that would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls, limit access to or reimbursement for our products, or reduce the value of our intellectual-property protection. Such proposals are expected to increase in both frequency and impact, given the pressures on national and regional health care budgets as a result of continued austerity measures being pursued in a number of countries and the desire to manage health expenses carefully even as economies recover. In addition, governments in many emerging markets are becoming increasingly active in expanding the country’s health care system offerings. Some governments may adopt a generics-only policy which reduces current and future access to our human pharmaceutical products. Others may use some of the approaches to restrict pricing, reimbursement and access outlined above.   We expect pricing, reimbursement, and access pressures from both governments and private payers inside and outside the U.S. to become more severe. See Item I, “Business—Regulations Affecting Human Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access,” for more details.•Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the company. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of human pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, private payers, and consumers. These claims have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences to us. It is possible that we could become subject to such investigations and that the outcome could include criminal charges and fines, penalties, or other monetary or non-monetary remedies, including exclusion from U.S. federal and other health care programs. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with cGMP regulations (and comparable foreign regulations) for pharmaceutical products can lead to product recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products pending resolution of the issues. We are now operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that requires us to maintain comprehensive compliance programs governing our research, manufacturing, and sales and marketing of pharmaceuticals. A material failure to comply with the agreement could result in severe sanctions to the company. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation of our Operations,” for more details.18•Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on revenues. Human pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. After approval, the products are used for longer periods of time by much larger numbers of patients; we and others (including regulatory agencies and private payers) collect extensive information on the efficacy and safety of our marketed products. In addition, we or others may conduct post-marketing clinical studies on efficacy and safety of our marketed products. New safety or efficacy data from these sources may result in product label changes that could reduce the product's market acceptance and result in declining sales. Serious safety or efficacy issues that arise after approval for marketing could result in voluntary or mandatory product recalls or withdrawals from the market. Safety issues could also result in costly product liability claims.•We face many product liability claims and are self-insured; we could face large numbers of claims in the future, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a substantial number of product liability claims involving primarily Byetta®, Darvon™, Prozac, and Actos®. See Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16, Contingencies,” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for more information on our current product liability litigation. Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, we could become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for these or other products in the future, which could require substantial expenditures to resolve and, if involving marketed products, could adversely affect sales of the product. Due to a very restrictive market for product liability insurance, we are self-insured for product liability losses for all our currently marketed products. •Manufacturing difficulties or disruptions could lead to product supply problems. Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties at our facilities or contracted facilities, or the failure or refusal of a contract manufacturer to supply contracted quantities, could result in product shortages, leading to lost revenue. Such difficulties or disruptions could result from quality or regulatory compliance problems, natural disasters, or inability to obtain sole-source raw or intermediate materials. In addition, given the difficulties in predicting sales of new products and the very long lead times necessary for the expansion of pharmaceutical manufacturing capacity, it is possible that we could have difficulty meeting demand for new products. See Item 1, “Business—Raw Materials and Product Supply,” for more details.•We depend on information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business; system inadequacies or operating failures could harm our business.  We rely to a large extent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within the company and some of which are outsourced.  These systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including energy or telecommunications failures, breakdowns, natural disasters, terrorism, war, computer malware or other malicious intrusions, and random attacks.  To date, system interruptions have been infrequent and have not had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations.  We have implemented extensive measures to prevent, respond to, and minimize the impact of system interruptions.  However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent future interruptions that would have a material adverse effect on our business.•Unauthorized disclosures of our trade secrets and other confidential data could impair our valuable intellectual property, harm our competitive position, and expose us to regulatory penalties.  A great deal of sensitive, confidential data is stored in our information systems and networks, including valuable trade secrets and intellectual property, corporate strategic plans, marketing plans, customer information, and personally identifiable information (such as employee and patient information). Some of this information is created, accessed, and/or maintained by third parties. The confidentiality of this information may be breached through malicious intrusions by private or governmental actors through human or electronic means, including “hacking” or “cyber-attacks,” or through negligent or wrongful conduct by employees or others with permitted access to our systems and data. The rapid growth of social media exacerbates the risk of confidentiality breaches. Unauthorized disclosure of trade secret information could impair our ability to secure and maintain patent rights and cause us to lose other competitive advantages.  Unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information could expose us to sanctions for violations of data privacy laws and regulations and could damage the public trust in our company. Breaches of our data 19security may be very difficult to detect, and once detected, their impact may be very difficult to assess. To date, the data security breaches of which we have become aware have been infrequent in occurrence and, to the extent we have been able to measure their financial impact on our consolidated results of operations, such impact has not been material. We have invested and continue to invest to prevent, monitor, detect, and respond to data security breaches by strengthening our information technology systems, business processes, and training, and strengthening data protection requirements for third parties that hold our confidential information. However, despite these efforts, we expect data security breaches to continue, and there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent data security breaches that would have a material adverse effect on our business.•Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect our business. We utilize third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third-party service providers, for selected aspects of product development, the manufacture and commercialization of certain products, support for information technology systems, and certain financial transactional processes. Outsourcing these functions involves the risk that the third parties may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, may not produce results in a timely manner, may not maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, or may fail to perform at all. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, or other obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business. •Our animal health segment faces risks related to generic competition, food and animal safety concerns, factors affecting global agricultural markets, and other risks.  The animal health operating segment may be impacted by, among other things, increased generic competition; emerging restrictions and bans on the use of antibacterials in food-producing animals; perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products; increased regulation or decreased governmental support relating to the raising, processing, or consumption of food-producing animals; an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals; adverse weather conditions and the availability of natural resources; adverse global economic conditions affecting agricultural markets; and failure of the research and development, acquisition, and licensing efforts to generate new products. The failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenues.•Worsening economic conditions could adversely affect our business and operating results. While human pharmaceuticals have not generally been sensitive to overall economic cycles, prolonged economic slowdowns could lead to decreased utilization of drugs, affecting our sales volume. Declining tax revenues attributable to economic downturns increase the pressure on governments to reduce health care spending, leading to increasing government efforts to control drug prices and utilization. Additionally, some customers, including governments or other entities reliant upon government funding, may be unable to pay in a timely manner for our products. Also, if our customers, suppliers, or collaboration partners experience financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults by suppliers or collaboration partners.•Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and foreign tax audits, can affect our results of operations. The Obama administration has proposed changes to the manner in which the U.S. would tax the international income of U.S.-based companies. There have also been tax proposals under discussion or introduced in the U.S. Congress that could change the manner in which, and rate at which, income of U.S. companies would be taxed. While it is uncertain how the U.S. Congress may address U.S. tax policy matters in the future, reform of U.S. taxation, including taxation of international income, will continue to be a topic of discussion for the U.S. Congress and the Obama administration. A significant change to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the taxation of international income, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.20Item 1B