Item 1A:    
    

    
    Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking
    Statements
    





 


    In addition to the other information contained in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following risk factors should be considered carefully in
    evaluating our company. It is possible that our business,
    financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected by any of these risks.


 


    We have made certain forward-looking statements in this
    Form 10-K,
    and company spokespeople may make such statements in the future
    based on then-current expectations of management. Where
    possible, we try to identify forward-looking statements by using
    such words as “expect,” “plan,”
    “will,” “estimate,” “forecast,”
    “project,” “believe,”
    “anticipate,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking
    statements do not relate strictly to historical or current
    facts. They are likely to address our growth strategy, sales of
    current and anticipated products, financial results, the results
    of our research and development programs, the status of product
    approvals, and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation
    and investigations. All forward-looking statements made by us
    are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those
    summarized below.


 




    
    



        •  
    
    Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and
    highly uncertain.  There are many difficulties and
    uncertainties inherent in new product research and development
    and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of
    failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs. To bring
    a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market
    typically takes a decade or more and costs over $1 billion.
    Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in
    the process after significant funds have been invested. As a
    result, there is a significant risk that funds invested in
    research programs will not generate financial returns. New
    product candidates that appear promising in development may fail
    to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success
    because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain
    necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses,
    difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of
    the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Delays
    and uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval
    processes in other countries can result in delays in product
    launches and lost market opportunity. In recent years, FDA
    review times have increased substantially and fewer new drugs
    are being approved. In addition, it can be very difficult to
    predict sales growth rates of new products.






    
    -11-



 



 




    
    



        •  

        We face intense competition.  We compete with
    large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies,
    biotechnology companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. To
    compete successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market
    innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical
    needs. Our product sales can be adversely affected by the
    introduction by competitors of branded products that are
    perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of
    our branded products, and by generic versions of other products
    in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See
    Item 1, “Business − Competition,” for
    more details.




 



        •  

        Our long-term success depends on intellectual property
    protection.  Our long-term success depends on our
    ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize
    innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong
    intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate
    the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in
    research and development, capital, and other expenditures
    required to bring new drugs to the market. Several major
    products will lose intellectual property protection in the
    U.S. in the next decade beginning in late 2011. Several of
    these products will lose intellectual property protection in
    various countries outside the U.S. even before then. See
    Item 1, “Business − Patents, Trademarks,
    and Other Intellectual Property Protection,” for more
    details.





 


    Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and
    is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman
    Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to
    invalidate our patents; as a result, we expect that our
    U.S. patents on major products will be routinely
    challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will
    be upheld. See Item 1, “Business − Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection,”
    for more details. We are increasingly facing generic
    manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as well.
    In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that
    our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property
    rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in
    our being unable to market a product in a particular territory
    or being required to pay damages for past infringement or
    royalties on future sales.


 




    
    



        •  

        Our business is subject to increasing government price
    controls and other health care cost containment
    measures.  Government health care cost-containment
    measures can significantly affect our sales and profitability.
    In many countries outside the United States, government agencies
    strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which
    our products are sold. In the United States, we are subject to
    substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and
    private insurance programs and pharmacy benefit managers,
    including those operating under the Medicare Part D
    pharmaceutical benefit. Many federal and state legislative
    proposals would further negatively affect our pricing
    and/or
    reimbursement for our products. We expect pricing pressures from
    both governments and private payers inside and outside the
    United States to become more severe. See Item I,
    “Business − Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical
    Pricing and Reimbursement,” for more details.




 



        •  

        Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns.  Unexpected safety or efficacy
    concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, leading to
    product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as
    costly product liability claims.




 



        •  

        We depend on key products for most of our revenues, cash
    flows, and earnings.  Zyprexa sales of
    $4.70 billion represented 23 percent of our revenues
    in 2008, and Cymbalta sales of $2.70 billion constituted
    13 percent of our 2008 revenues. Six other
    products − Humalog, Gemzar, Cialis, Alimta, Evista,
    and Humulin − each contributed more than
    $1 billion in revenues in 2008. If these or other key
    products were to become subject to a problem such as loss of
    patent protection, materially adverse changes in prescription
    growth rates, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings,
    material product liability litigation, publicity affecting
    doctor or patient confidence, or pressure from competitive
    products, the adverse impact on our revenues, cash flows and
    earnings could be significant.




 



        •  

        Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the
    company.  The marketing, promotional, and pricing
    practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner
    in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers,
    and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many
    companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related
    to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental
    authorities and private payers and consumers. These claims have
    resulted in substantial expense and other






    
    -12-



 






    
    
    



     
    

    
    significant consequences to the company. It is possible other
    products could become subject to investigation and that the
    outcome of these matters could include criminal charges and
    fines, penalties, or other monetary or nonmonetary remedies. In
    particular, See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis − Legal and Regulatory Matters,”
    for the discussions of the U.S. sales and marketing
    practices investigations. In addition, regulatory issues
    concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice
    (cGMP) regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead to
    product recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading
    to product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new
    products pending resolution of the cGMP issues. We are now
    operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office
    of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human
    Services that requires us to maintain comprehensive compliance
    programs governing our research, manufacturing, and sales and
    marketing of pharmaceuticals. Material failures to comply with
    the Agreement could result in severe sanctions to the company.
    See Item 1, “Business − Regulation of our
    Operations,” for more details.





 




    
    



        •  

        We face many product liability claims today, and future
    claims will be largely self-insured.  We are
    subject to a substantial number of product liability claims
    involving primarily Zyprexa, DES, and thimerosal, and because of
    the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we
    could become subject to large numbers of product liability
    claims for other products in the future. See Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis −
    Legal and Regulatory Matters,” and Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings,” for more information on our current product
    liability litigation. In the past few years, we have experienced
    difficulties in obtaining product liability insurance due to a
    very restrictive insurance market. Therefore, for substantially
    all our currently marketed products we have been and expect that
    we will continue to be largely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers on
    past claims.




 



        •  

        Manufacturing difficulties could lead to product supply
    problems.  Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex
    and highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties can result in
    product shortages, leading to lost sales. See Item 1,
    “Business − Raw Materials and Product
    Supply,” for more details.




 



        •  

        The current volatility in financial markets could adversely
    affect the cost and availability of
    financing.  Although the current contraction of
    the credit markets has not yet materially affected our borrowing
    costs or flexibility, if there is additional significant
    contraction of the markets, it could adversely affect our
    ability to obtain short-term or long-term financing at
    reasonable rates.




 



        •  

        A prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our
    business and operating results.  While
    pharmaceuticals have not generally been sensitive to overall
    economic cycles, a prolonged economic downturn coupled with
    rising unemployment (and a corresponding increase in the
    uninsured and underinsured population) could lead to decreased
    utilization of drugs, affecting our sales volume. Declining tax
    revenues attributable to the downturn may increase the pressure
    on governments to reduce healthcare spending, leading to
    increasing government efforts to control drug prices. In
    addition, a prolonged economic downturn could have an adverse
    impact on our investment portfolio, which could lead to the
    recognition of losses on our corporate investments and increased
    benefit expense related to our pension investments. Also, if our
    customers, suppliers or collaboration partners experience
    financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer
    collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults
    by suppliers or collaboration partners.




 



        •  

        We face other risks to our business and operating
    results.  Our business is subject to a number of
    other risks and uncertainties, including:





 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Economic factors over which we have no control, including
    changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency
    exchange rates can affect our results of operations.




 



     
        •  

    
    Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of
    foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with
    favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and
    foreign tax audits, can affect our net income.






    
    -13-



 



 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, and the Emerging Issues Task Force can affect
    reported results.




 



     
        •  

    
    Our results can also be affected by internal factors, such as
    changes in business strategies and the impact of restructurings,
    asset impairments, technology acquisition and disposition
    transactions, and business combinations.





 


    We undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B