Item 1A:    
    

    
    Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking
    Statements
    





 


    In addition to the other information contained in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following risk factors should be considered carefully in
    evaluating our company. It is possible that our business,
    financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected by any of these risks.


 


    We have made certain forward-looking statements in this
    Form 10-K,
    and company spokespeople may make such statements in the future
    based on then-current expectations of management. Where
    possible, we try to identify forward-looking statements by using
    such words as “expect,” “plan,”
    “will,” “estimate,” “forecast,”
    “project,” “believe,”
    “anticipate,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking
    statements do not relate strictly to historical or current
    facts. They are likely to address our growth strategy, sales of
    current and anticipated products, financial results, the results
    of our research and development programs, the status of product
    approvals, and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation
    and investigations. All forward-looking statements made by us
    are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those
    summarized below.


 




    
    



        •  

        We face intense competition. We compete with large
    number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology
    companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete
    successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market
    innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical
    needs. Our product sales can be adversely affected by the
    introduction by competitors of branded products that are
    perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of
    our branded products, and by generic versions of other products
    in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See
    Item 1, “Business – Competition,” for
    more details.




 



        •  

        Our long-term success depends on intellectual property
    protection. Our long-term success depends on our
    ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize
    innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong
    intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate
    the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in
    research and development, capital, and other expenditures
    required to






    
    -10-



 






    
    



    
    
    bring new drugs to the market. We currently expect no major
    U.S. patent expirations in the next three years, but
    several major products will lose intellectual property
    protection beginning in 2011. See Item 1,
    “Business – Patents, Trademarks, and Other
    Intellectual Property Protection,” for more details.





 




    
    



            
    
    Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and
    is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman
    Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to
    invalidate our patents; as a result, we expect that our
    U.S. patents on major products will be routinely
    challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will
    be upheld. See Item 1, “Business – Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection,”
    for more details. We are increasingly facing generic
    manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S as well.
    In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that
    our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property
    rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in
    our being unable to market a product in a particular territory
    or being required to pay damages for past infringement or
    royalties on future sales.





 




    
    



        •  

        Our business is subject to increasing government price
    controls and other health care cost containment
    measures. Government health care cost-containment
    measures can significantly affect our sales and profitability.
    In many countries outside the United States, government agencies
    strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which
    our products are sold. In the United States, we are subject to
    substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and
    private insurance programs, including those operating under the
    Medicare pharmaceutical benefit effective January 2006. Many
    federal and state legislative proposals would further negatively
    affect our pricing
    and/or
    reimbursement for our products. We expect pricing pressures to
    increase. See Item I, “Business –
    Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing and
    Reimbursement,” for more details.




 



        •  

        Pharmaceutical research and development is costly and
    uncertain. There are many difficulties and
    uncertainties inherent in new product research and development
    and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of
    failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat
    diseases. To bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery
    phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur
    at any point in the process, including later in the process
    after significant funds have been invested. As a result, there
    is a significant risk that funds invested in research programs
    will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that
    appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or
    may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or
    safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory
    approvals, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or
    excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents
    or intellectual property rights of others. Delays and
    uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval
    processes in other countries can result in delays in product
    launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be
    very difficult to predict sales growth rates of new products.




 



        •  

        Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns. Unexpected safety or efficacy
    concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or
    not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls,
    withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability
    claims.




 



        •  

        We depend on key products for most of our revenues, cash
    flows, and earnings. Zyprexa sales of
    $4.76 billion represented 26 percent of our revenues
    in 2007. Five other products – Cymbalta, Gemzar,
    Humalog, Cialis, and Evista – each contributed more
    than $1 billion in revenues in 2007. If these or any of our
    other key products were to become subject to a problem such as
    loss of patent protection, materially adverse changes in
    prescription growth rates, unexpected side effects, regulatory
    proceedings, material product liability litigation, publicity
    affecting doctor or patient confidence, or pressure from
    competitive products, the adverse impact on our revenues, cash
    flows and earnings could be significant.




 



        •  

        Regulatory compliance failures could be damaging to the
    company. The marketing, promotional, and pricing
    practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner
    in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers,
    and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many
    companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related
    to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental
    authorities and private payers and consumers. These claims could
    result in substantial expense to the company. In particular, See
    Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis – Legal and Regulatory Matters,” for the
    discussions of the U.S. sales and marketing practices
    investigations. In addition, regulatory






    
    -11-



 






    
    



    
    
    issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing
    Practice (cGMP) regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead
    to product recalls and seizures, interruption of production
    leading to product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new
    products pending resolution of the cGMP issues. See Item 1,
    “Business – Regulation of our Operations,”
    for more details.





 




    
    



        •  

        We face many product liability claims today, and future
    claims will be largely self-insured. We are subject to
    a substantial number of product liability claims involving
    primarily Zyprexa, DES, and thimerosal, and because of the
    nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could
    become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for
    other products in the future. See Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis –
    Legal and Regulatory Matters,” and Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings,” for more information on our current product
    liability litigation. In the past few years, we have experienced
    difficulties in obtaining product liability insurance due to a
    very restrictive insurance market. Therefore, for substantially
    all our currently marketed products we have been and expect that
    we will continue to be largely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers on
    past claims.




 



        •  

        Manufacturing difficulties could lead to product supply
    problems. Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and
    highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties can result in
    product shortages, leading to lost sales. See Item 1,
    “Business – Raw Materials and Product
    Supply,” for more details.




 



        •  

        We face other risks to our business and operating
    results. Our business is subject to a number of other
    risks and uncertainties, including:





 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Economic factors over which we have no control, including
    changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency
    exchange rates, and overall economic conditions in volatile
    areas can affect our results of operations.




 



     
        •  

    
    Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of
    foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with
    favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and
    foreign tax audits, can affect our net income.




 



     
        •  

    
    Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, and the Emerging Issues Task Force can affect
    reported results.




 



     
        •  

    
    Our results can also be affected by internal factors, such as
    changes in business strategies and the impact of restructurings,
    asset impairments, technology acquisition and disposition
    transactions, and business combinations.





 


    We undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B