Item 1A.Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company. It is possible that our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Certain of these risks could also adversely affect the company's reputation.•Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and highly uncertain; we may not succeed in developing or acquiring commercially successful products sufficient in number or value to replace revenues of products losing intellectual property protection. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in human pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market can take over a decade and often costs in excess of $1 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies are establishing increasingly high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products; delays and uncertainties in drug approval processes can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict sales growth rates of new products.We cannot state with certainty when or whether our products now under development will be approved or launched; whether we will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire additional product candidates or products; or whether our products, once launched, will be commercially successful. We must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products sufficient both to cover our substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose intellectual property exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short-term or long-term would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial position, and prospects.19•We depend on products with intellectual property protection for most of our revenues, cash flows, and earnings; we have lost or will lose effective intellectual property protection for many of those products in the next several years, which may result in rapid and severe declines in revenues.A number of our top-selling human pharmaceutical products have recently lost, or will lose in the next several years, significant patent protection and/or data protection in the U.S. as well as key countries outside the U.S., as illustrated in the tables below:ProductU.S. Revenues(2015)($ in millions)Percent of Worldwide Revenues(2015)Patent / Data Protection - U.S.Cialis$1,256.86%Compound and use patents November 2017Alimta1,162.46%Compound patent plus pediatric exclusivity January 2017; vitamin regimen patent plus pediatric exclusivity 2022Forteo612.43%Formulation and related process patents 2018; use patents 2019Strattera502.13%Use patent plus pediatric exclusivity May 2017Effient417.62%Compound patent April 2017; use patents 2023ProductRevenues Outside U.S.(2015)($ in millions)Percent of Worldwide Revenues(2015)Patent / Data Protection - Major Europe / JapanAlimta$1,330.77%Major European countries: compound patent December 2015, vitamin regimen patent 2021Japan: compound patent December 2015, use patents to treat cancer concomitantly with vitamins 2021Cialis1,053.95%Major European countries: compound patent November 2017 Cymbalta883.04%Major European countries: data package protection 2014 Japan: data package protection 2018 Zyprexa783.64%Japan: Patent for schizophrenia December 2015; for bipolar mania April 2016Forteo735.94%Japan: Data package protection 2018; formulation and related process patent 2019Certain other significant products no longer have effective exclusivity through patent protection or data protection. For non-biological products, loss of exclusivity (whether by expiration or as a consequence of litigation) typically results in the entry of one or more generic competitors, leading to a rapid and severe decline in revenues, especially in the U.S. Historically, outside the U.S. the market penetration of generics following loss of exclusivity has not been as rapid or pervasive as in the U.S.; however, generic market penetration is increasing in many markets outside the U.S., including Japan, Europe, and many countries in the emerging markets. For biological products (such as Humalog, Humulin, Erbitux, and Cyramza), loss of exclusivity may or may not result in the near-term entry of competitor versions (i.e., biosimilars) due to development timelines, manufacturing challenges, and/or uncertainties in the regulatory pathways for approval of the competitor versions. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Executive Overview—Other Matters,” and Item 1, "Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights," for more details. •Our long-term success depends on intellectual property protection; if our intellectual property rights are invalidated, circumvented, or weakened, our business will be adversely affected. Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in research and development and capital as well as other expenditures required to bring new drugs to the market.20Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to invalidate our human pharmaceutical patents; as a result, we expect that our U.S. patents on major pharmaceutical products will be routinely challenged in litigation and administrative proceedings, and may not be upheld. We face many generic manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as well. The entry of generic competitors typically results in rapid and severe declines in sales. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in our being unable to market a product in a particular territory or being required to pay damages for past infringement or royalties on future sales. See Item 1, “Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights,” Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 15, Contingencies," for more details.•Our human pharmaceutical business is subject to increasing government price controls and other public and private restrictions on pricing, reimbursement, and access for our drugs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Public and private payers are taking increasingly aggressive steps to control their expenditures for human pharmaceuticals by placing restrictions on pricing and reimbursement for, and patient access to, our medications. These pressures could negatively affect our future revenues and income.In the U.S., public concern over prices for specialty and brand name pharmaceuticals continues to drive the legislative debate. These policy and political issues increase the risk that taxes, fees, rebates or other federal and state measures may be enacted. Key health policy proposals affecting biopharmaceuticals include a reduction in biologic data exclusivity, modifications to Medicare Parts B and D, new language that would allow the Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate prices for biologics and drugs on the specialty tier in Part D, and state-level proposals to reduce the cost of pharmaceuticals purchased by government health care programs. Savings projected under these proposals are targeted as a means to fund both health care expenditures and non-health care initiatives, or to manage federal and state budgets.In the U.S. private sector, health plans and pharmaceutical benefit managers have been consolidating into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance. Payers typically maintain formularies specifying which drugs are covered and the cost to the consumer. Non-preferred formulary placement, including the exclusion of a drug from a formulary, typically leads to its reduced usage in the patient population. Consequently, pharmaceutical companies compete to have their branded products included by, among other things, providing offsetting rebates. Price is an increasingly important factor in formulary decisions, particularly in treatment areas in which payers take the position that multiple branded products are therapeutically comparable. The main coverage expansion provisions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) are now in effect through both the launch of state-based exchanges and the expansion of Medicaid. An emerging trend has been the prevalence of benefit designs containing high patient out-of-pocket costs for pharmaceuticals. In addition to the coverage expansions, many employers in the commercial market, driven in part by ACA changes such as the 2020 implementation of the excise tax on employer-sponsored health care coverage for which there is an excess benefit (the so-called "Cadillac tax"), continue to evaluate strategies such as private exchanges and wider use of consumer-driven health plans to reduce their healthcare liabilities over time. At the same time, the broader paradigm shift towards quality-based reimbursement and the launch of several value-based purchasing initiatives are placing demands on the pharmaceutical industry to offer products with proven real-world outcomes data and a favorable economic profile.International operations also are generally subject to extensive price and market regulations. Cost-containment measures exist in a number of countries, including additional price controls and mechanisms to limit reimbursement for our products. Such policies are expected to increase in impact and reach, given the pressures on health care budgets that come from a growing aging population and ongoing economic challenges. In addition, governments in many emerging markets are becoming increasingly active in expanding health care system offerings. Given the budget challenges of increasing health care coverage for citizens, policies may be proposed that promote generics only and reduce current and future access to human pharmaceutical products.We expect pricing, reimbursement, and access pressures from both governments and private payers inside and outside the U.S. to become more severe. For more details, see Item 1, “Business—Regulations Affecting Human Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access,” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Executive Overview—Other Matters.”21•We face intense competition from multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and lower-cost generic and biosimilar manufacturers, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business.We compete with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical needs. Our product revenues can be adversely affected by the introduction by competitors of branded products that are perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, and by generic or biosimilar versions of other products in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. Our revenues can also be adversely affected by treatment innovations that eliminate or minimize the need for treatment with drugs. See Item 1, “Business—Competition,” for more details.•Changes in foreign currency rates can materially affect our revenue, cost of sales, and operating expenses.As a global company with substantial operations outside the U.S., we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and British pound, and the British pound against the euro. While we manage a portion of these exposures through hedging and other risk management techniques, significant fluctuations in currency rates can have a material impact, either positive or negative, on our revenue, cost of sales, and operating expenses.•Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Changes in the relevant tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations could adversely affect our future effective tax rates. The U.S. and a number of other countries are actively considering or enacting changes in this regard. For example, the Obama administration proposed changes to the manner in which the U.S. would tax the international income of U.S.-based companies, including unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Other tax proposals under discussion or introduced in the U.S. Congress could change the tax rate and manner in which U.S. companies would be taxed. Additionally, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development issued its final recommendations of international tax reform proposals to influence international tax policy in major countries in which we operate. While outcomes of these initiatives continue to develop and remain uncertain, changes to key elements of the U.S. or international tax framework could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results and cash flows.See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13, Income Taxes," for more details.•Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the company. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of human pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many companies, including us, have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities, private payers, and consumers. These claims have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences to us. It is possible that we could become subject to such investigations and that the outcome could include criminal charges and fines, penalties, or other monetary or non-monetary remedies, including exclusion from U.S. federal and other health care programs. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with cGMP regulations (and comparable foreign regulations) for pharmaceutical products can lead to product recalls and seizures, fines and penalties, interruption of production leading to product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products pending resolution of the issues. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation of our Operations,” for more details.•The loss, theft, or inadvertent disclosure of our confidential data could impair our valuable intellectual property, harm our competitive position, and/or expose us to regulatory penalties and other costs.A great deal of confidential information owned by both us and our alliances is stored in our information systems, networks, and facilities or those of third parties. This includes valuable trade secrets and intellectual property, corporate strategic plans, marketing plans, customer information, and personally identifiable information (such as employee and patient information). Some of this information is created, accessed, and/or maintained by third parties. The confidentiality of this information may be breached in a variety of ways, including but not limited to negligent or wrongful conduct by employees or others with 22permitted access to our systems and data, or wrongful conduct by certain governments, hackers, unethical competitors, or former workforce members. The rapid growth of factors such as mobile computing capacity, high-speed Internet access, and social media exacerbates the risk of information security breaches. The theft or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information could impair our ability to secure and maintain intellectual property rights, cause damage to company operations and reputation, and cause us to lose trade secrets or other competitive advantages. Unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information could expose us to sanctions for violations of data privacy laws and regulations and could damage the public trust in our company. Information security breaches may be very difficult to detect, and once detected, their impact may be very difficult to assess. To date, the information security breaches of which we have become aware have been infrequent in occurrence and, to the extent we have been able to measure their financial impact on our consolidated results of operations, such impact has not been material. We have invested and continue to invest to prevent, monitor, detect, and respond to information security breaches by strengthening our employee awareness and training, information technology systems, and business processes, and strengthening data protection requirements for third parties that handle our confidential information. However, despite these efforts, we expect information security breaches to continue, and there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent information security breaches that would have a material adverse effect on our business.•Worsening economic conditions could adversely affect our business and operating results. While human pharmaceuticals have not generally been sensitive to overall economic cycles, prolonged economic slowdowns could lead to decreased utilization of drugs, affecting our sales volume. Declining tax revenues attributable to economic downturns increase the pressure on governments to reduce health care spending, leading to increasing government efforts to control drug prices and utilization. Additionally, some customers, including governments or other entities reliant upon government funding, may be unable to pay in a timely manner for our products. Also, if our customers, suppliers, or collaboration partners experience financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults by suppliers or collaboration partners.•Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on revenues and income. Human pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. After approval, the products are used for longer periods of time by much larger numbers of patients; we and others (including regulatory agencies and private payers) collect extensive information on the efficacy and safety of our marketed products by continuously monitoring the use of our products in the marketplace. In addition, we or others may conduct post-marketing clinical studies on efficacy and safety of our marketed products. New safety or efficacy data from both market surveillance and post-marketing clinical studies may result in product label changes that could reduce the product's market acceptance and result in declining sales. Serious safety or efficacy issues that arise after product approval could result in voluntary or mandatory product recalls or withdrawals from the market. Safety issues could also result in costly product liability claims.•We face many product liability claims and are self-insured; we could face large numbers of claims in the future, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a substantial number of product liability claims involving Actos®, Byetta®, Cymbalta, and Prozac among other products. See Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 15, Contingencies,” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for more information on our current product liability litigation. Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, we could become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for these or other products in the future, which could require substantial expenditures to resolve and, if involving marketed products, could adversely affect sales of the product. Due to a very restrictive market for product liability insurance, we are self-insured for product liability losses for all our currently marketed products. •Manufacturing difficulties or disruptions could lead to product supply problems. Pharmaceutical and animal health manufacturing is complex and highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties at our facilities or contracted facilities, or the failure or refusal of a contract manufacturer to supply contracted quantities, could result in product shortages, leading to lost revenue. Such difficulties or disruptions could result from quality or regulatory compliance problems, natural disasters, mechanical or information technology system failures, or inability to obtain sole-source raw or intermediate materials. In addition, given 23the difficulties in predicting sales of new products and the very long lead times necessary for the expansion and regulatory qualification of pharmaceutical manufacturing capacity, it is possible that we could have difficulty meeting demand for new products. See Item 1, “Business—Raw Materials and Product Supply,” for more details.•We depend on information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business; system inadequacies or operating failures could harm our business.We rely to a large extent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within the company and some of which are outsourced. These systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to corruption, damage, or interruption from a variety of sources, including energy or telecommunications failures, breakdowns, natural disasters, terrorism, war, computer malware or other malicious intrusions, and random attacks. To date, system interruptions have been infrequent and have not had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. We have implemented measures to prevent, respond to, and minimize the impact of system interruptions. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent future interruptions that would have a material adverse effect on our business.•Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect our business. We utilize third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third-party service providers, for selected aspects of product development, the manufacture and commercialization of certain products, support for information technology systems, and certain financial transactional processes. For example, we outsource the day-to-day management and oversight of our clinical trials to contract research organizations. Outsourcing these functions involves the risk that the third parties may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, may not produce reliable results, may not perform in a timely manner, may not maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, or may fail to perform at all. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, or other obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business. •Our animal health segment faces risks related to increased generic competition, food and animal safety concerns, factors affecting global agricultural markets, and other risks.The animal health operating segment may be impacted by, among other things, increased generic competition; increased sales of companion animal products by non-veterinarian retail outlets; emerging restrictions and bans on the use of antibacterials in food-producing animals; perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products; increased regulation or decreased governmental support relating to the raising, processing, or consumption of food-producing animals; an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals; adverse weather conditions and the availability of natural resources; adverse global economic conditions affecting agricultural markets; and failure of our research and development, acquisition, and licensing efforts to generate new products. The failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and income.•Integration of the Novartis Animal Health business could lead to additional unplanned expenses and be disruptive to operations.We are continuing to integrate into our operations the Novartis AH business which we purchased in January 2015. This complex global integration is a multi-year process and could still be disruptive to the ongoing operations of the Elanco business or to certain corporate support functions. Unexpected delays and difficulties in the integration could lead to additional expenses and disruption to ongoing operating results.Item 1B