Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking
    Statements





 


    In addition to the other information contained in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following risk factors should be considered carefully in
    evaluating our company. It is possible that our business,
    financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations could
    be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.


 


    We make certain forward-looking statements in this
    Form 10-K,
    and company spokespersons may make such statements in the
    future. Where possible, we try to identify forward-looking
    statements by using such words as “expect,”
    “plan,” “will,” “estimate,”
    “forecast,” “project,” “believe,”
    and “anticipate”. Forward-looking statements do not
    relate strictly to historical or current facts. They are likely
    to address our growth strategy, sales of current and anticipated
    products, financial results, our research and development
    programs, the status of product approvals, legislative and
    regulatory developments, and the outcome of contingencies such
    as litigation and investigations. All forward-looking statements
    are based on our expectations at the time we make them. They are
    subject to risks and uncertainties, including those summarized
    below.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and
    highly uncertain. There are many difficulties and
    uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and
    development and the introduction of new products. There is a
    high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and
    development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market
    typically takes a decade or more and costs over $1 billion.
    Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in
    the process after substantial investment. As a result, most
    funds invested in research programs will not generate financial
    returns. New product candidates that appear promising in
    development may fail to reach the market or may have only
    limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety
    concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals,
    limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to
    manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual
    property rights of others. Delays and uncertainties in the FDA
    approval process and the approval processes in other countries
    can result in delays in product launches and lost market
    opportunity. In recent years, FDA review times have increased
    substantially and fewer new drugs are being approved. In
    addition, it can be very difficult to predict sales growth rates
    of new products.




 



     
        • 

    
    We face intense competition. We compete with a large
    number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology
    companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete
    successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market
    innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical
    needs. Our product sales can be adversely affected by the
    introduction by competitors of branded products that are
    perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of
    our branded products, and by generic versions of other products
    in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See
    Item 1, “Business—Competition,” for more
    details.




 



     
        • 

    
    We depend on patent-protected products for most of our
    revenues, cash flows, and earnings, and we will lose effective
    intellectual property protection for many of them in the next
    several years.  Eight significant products, which
    together comprise 74 percent of our worldwide revenue, will
    lose their






 

 


    11




 







    
    
    



     
    

    
    most significant remaining U.S. patent protection, as well
    as their intellectual property-based exclusivity in most
    countries outside the U.S., in the next several years:





 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


    Worldwide Revenues
    


 


 


    Percent of Total
    


 


 


 




     Product


 


 


    (2009)


 


 


    2009 Revenues


 


 


    Relevant U.S. Patent Protection





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Zyprexa



 


 


    $4.92 billion


 


 


    23


 


 


    2011





    Cymbalta



 


 


    $3.07 billion


 


 


    14


 


 


    2013





    Humalog



 


 


    $1.96 billion


 


 


    9


 


 


    2013





    Alimta



 


 


    $1.71 billion


 


 


    8


 


 


    2016





    Cialis



 


 


    $1.56 billion


 


 


    7


 


 


    2017





    Gemzar



 


 


    $1.36 billion


 


 


    6


 


 


    2010 (compound); 2013
    (use)1






    Evista



 


 


    $1.03 billion


 


 


    5


 


 


    2014 (use); 2017 (dosage
    form)1






    Strattera



 


 


    $609.4 million


 


 


    3


 


 


    2016




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 
 

    1The

    Gemzar use patent and Evista dosage form patent have been held
    invalid by federal district courts, and we have appealed those
    decisions. For more information, see Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Legal and
    Regulatory Matters.”




 


    Loss of exclusivity typically results in a rapid and severe
    decline in sales. See Item 1, “Business—Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection,”
    for more details. Additionally, if these or other significant
    products were to become subject to a problem such as an early
    loss of patent protection as a result of litigation, unexpected
    side effects, regulatory proceedings, material product liability
    litigation, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, or
    pressure from competitive products, the adverse impact on our
    revenues, cash flows, and earnings could be significant.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our long-term success depends on intellectual property
    protection.  Our long-term success depends on our
    ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize
    innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong
    intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate
    the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in
    research and development and capital as well as other
    expenditures required to bring new drugs to the market.





 


    Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and
    is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman
    Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to
    invalidate our patents; as a result, we expect that our
    U.S. patents on major products will be routinely
    challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will
    be upheld. See Item 1, “Business—Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection,”
    for more details. We are increasingly facing generic
    manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as
    well. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim
    that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual
    property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could
    result in our being unable to market a product in a particular
    territory or being required to pay damages for past infringement
    or royalties on future sales. See Item 1,
    “Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual
    Property Protection,” for more details.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our business is subject to increasing government price
    controls and other health care cost containment measures.
    Government health care cost-containment measures can
    significantly affect our sales and profitability. In many
    countries outside the United States, government agencies
    strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which
    our products are sold. In the United States, we are subject to
    substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and
    private insurance programs and pharmacy benefit managers,
    including those operating under the Medicare Part D
    pharmaceutical benefit. Many federal and state legislative
    proposals, including the comprehensive health care reform bills
    that were the subject of recent debate in Congress, would
    further negatively affect our pricing
    and/or
    reimbursement for our products. We expect pricing pressures from
    both governments and private payers inside and outside the
    United States to become more severe. See Item I,
    “Business—Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing
    and Reimbursement,” for more details.




 



     
        • 

    
    Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns.  Unexpected safety or efficacy
    concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, leading to
    product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as
    costly product liability claims.




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the
    company.  The marketing, promotional, and pricing
    practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner
    in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers,
    and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many






 

 


    12




 







    
    
    



     
    

    
    companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related
    to these practices asserted by federal, state and foreign
    governmental authorities and private payers and consumers. These
    claims have resulted in substantial expense and other
    significant consequences to us. It is possible other products
    could become subject to investigation and that the outcome of
    these matters could include criminal charges and fines,
    penalties, or other monetary or nonmonetary remedies. In
    particular, See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis—Legal and Regulatory Matters,” for the
    discussions of the U.S. sales and marketing practices
    investigations. In addition, regulatory issues concerning
    compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP)
    regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead to product
    recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to
    product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products
    pending resolution of the cGMP issues. We are now operating
    under a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of
    Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and
    Human Services that requires us to maintain comprehensive
    compliance programs governing our research, manufacturing, and
    sales and marketing of pharmaceuticals. A material failure to
    comply with the Agreement could result in severe sanctions to
    the company. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation of
    our Operations,” for more details.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We face many product liability claims today, and future
    claims will be largely self-insured.  We are
    subject to a substantial number of product liability claims
    involving primarily Zyprexa, diethylstilbestrol
    (“DES”), thimerosal, and Byetta, and because of the
    nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could
    become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for
    other products in the future. See Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Legal and
    Regulatory Matters,” and Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings,” for more information on our current product
    liability litigation. Due to a very restrictive market for
    product liability insurance, we have been and will continue to
    be largely self-insured for future product liability losses for
    substantially all our currently marketed products. In addition,
    there is no assurance that we will be able to fully collect from
    our insurance carriers on past claims.




 



     
        • 

    
    Manufacturing difficulties could lead to product supply
    problems. Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and
    highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties at our facilities
    or contracted facilities, or the failure or refusal of a
    contract manufacturer to supply contracted quantities, could
    result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. See
    Item 1, “Business—Raw Materials and Product
    Supply,” for more details.




 



     
        • 

    
    A prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our
    business and operating results. While pharmaceuticals
    have not generally been sensitive to overall economic cycles, a
    prolonged economic downturn coupled with rising unemployment
    (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured
    population) could lead to decreased utilization of drugs,
    affecting our sales volume. Declining tax revenues attributable
    to the downturn are increasing the pressure on governments to
    reduce health care spending, leading to increasing government
    efforts to control drug prices and utilization. In addition, a
    prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our
    investment portfolio, which could lead to the recognition of
    losses on our corporate investments and increased benefit
    expense related to our pension obligations. Also, if our
    customers, suppliers or collaboration partners experience
    financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer
    collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults
    by suppliers or collaboration partners.




 



     
        • 

    
    We face other risks to our business and operating
    results. Our business is subject to a number of other
    risks and uncertainties, including:










    
    
    



     
        — 

    
    Economic factors over which we have no control, including
    changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency
    exchange rates, can affect our results of operations.








     
        — 

    
    Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of
    foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with
    favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and
    foreign tax audits, can affect our results of operations. In its
    budget submission to Congress in February 2010, the Obama
    administration proposed changes to the manner in which the
    U.S. would tax the international income of
    U.S.-based
    companies. While it is uncertain how the U.S. Congress may
    address this issue, reform of U.S. taxation, including
    taxation of international income, continues to be a topic of
    discussion for the U.S. Congress. A significant change to
    the U.S. tax system, including changes to the taxation of
    international income, could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations.








     
        — 

    
    Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange
    Commission can affect our financial statements.








     
        — 

    
    Our financial statements can also be affected by internal
    factors, such as changes in business strategies and the impact
    of restructurings, asset impairments, technology acquisition and
    disposition transactions, and business combinations.





 


    We undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B