Item 1A.Risk Factors" -->



Item 1A.               Risk
Factors



In addition to the other information contained in this
Form 10-K, the
following risk factors should be considered carefully in
evaluating our company. It is possible that our business,
financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be
materially adversely affected by any of these risks.


11



Table of Contents






    
    



    •
    
    We face intense competition. We compete with large number
    of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology
    companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete
    successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market
    innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical
    needs. Our product sales can be adversely affected by the
    introduction by competitors of branded products that are
    perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of
    our branded products, and by generic versions of other products
    in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See
    Item 1, “Business — Competition,” for
    more details.



     



    •
    
    Our long-term success depends on intellectual property
    protection. Our long-term success depends on our ability to
    continually discover, develop, and commercialize innovative new
    pharmaceutical products. Without strong intellectual property
    protection, we would be unable to generate the returns necessary
    to support the enormous investments in research and development,
    capital, and other expenditures required to bring new drugs to
    the market. We currently expect no major patent expirations in
    this decade, but several major products will lose intellectual
    property protection in the first half of the next decade.









    
    



     
    
    Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and
    is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman
    Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to
    invalidate our patents; as a result, we expect that our
    U.S. patents on major products will be routinely
    challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will
    be upheld. See Item 1, “Business — Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection”,
    for more details. In addition, competitors or other third
    parties may claim that our activities infringe patents or other
    intellectual property rights held by them. If successful, such
    claims could result in our being unable to market a product in a
    particular territory or being required to pay damages for past
    infringement or royalties on future sales.









    
    



    •
    
    Our business is subject to increasing government price
    controls and other health care cost containment measures.
    Government health care cost-containment measures can
    significantly affect our sales and profitability. In many
    countries outside the United States, government agencies
    strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which
    our products are sold. In the United States, we are subject to
    substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and
    private insurance programs, including those operating under the
    new Medicare pharmaceutical benefit effective January 2006. We
    expect pricing pressures to increase. See Item I,
    “Business — Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical
    Pricing and Reimbursement” for more details.



     



    •
    
    Pharmaceutical research and development is costly and
    uncertain. There are many difficulties and uncertainties
    inherent in new product development and introduction of new
    products. New product candidates that appear promising in
    development may fail to reach the market or may have only
    limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety
    concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals,
    limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to
    manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual
    property rights of others. Delays and uncertainties in the FDA
    approval process and the approval processes in other countries
    can result in delays in product launches and lost market
    opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict
    sales growth rates of new products.



     



    •
    
    Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns. Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns
    can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not
    scientifically justified, leading to product recalls,
    withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability
    claims.




12


Table of Contents






    
    



    •
    
    Zyprexa contributes a major portion of our sales and
    earnings. Zyprexa, our largest-selling product, contributes
    a significant proportion of our total sales and income, and we
    believe Zyprexa will continue to be a major contributor to our
    sales and earnings for several years. An unexpected steep and
    extended decline in Zyprexa sales (resulting from, for example,
    an unexpected safety or efficacy concern, regulatory action, or
    premature loss of patent protection) could have a material
    adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition
    and liquidity.



     



    •
    
    Regulatory compliance failures could be damaging to the
    company. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices
    of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which
    manufacturers interact with purchasers and prescribers, are
    subject to extensive regulation. Many companies, including
    Lilly, have been subject to claims related to these practices
    asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and
    private payors and consumers. These claims could result in
    substantial expense to the company. In particular, See
    Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis — Legal and Regulatory Matters”, for the
    discussions of the U.S. sales and marketing practices
    investigations. In addition, regulatory issues concerning
    compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP)
    regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead to product
    recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to
    product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products
    pending resolution of the cGMP issues. See Item 1,
    “Business — Regulation of our Operations”,
    for more details.



     



    •
    
    We face many product liability claims today, and future
    claims will be largely self-insured. We are subject to a
    substantial number of product liability claims involving
    primarily Zyprexa, DES, and thimerosal, and because of the
    nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could
    become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for
    other products in the future. See Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis —
    Legal and Regulatory Matters” and Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings”, for more information on our current product
    liability litigation. We have experienced difficulties in
    obtaining product liability insurance due to a very restrictive
    insurance market, and therefore will be largely self-insured for
    future product liability losses. In addition, there is no
    assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our
    insurance carriers on past claims.



     



    •
    
    Manufacturing difficulties could lead to product supply
    problems. Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and highly
    regulated. Manufacturing difficulties can result in product
    shortages, leading to lost sales. See Item 1,
    “Business — Raw Materials and Product
    Supply,” for more details.



     



    •
    
    We face other risks to our business and operating
    results. Our business is subject to a number of other risks
    and uncertainties, including:









    
    
    



     
    •
    
    Economic factors over which we have no control, including
    changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency
    exchange rates, and overall economic conditions in volatile
    areas can affect our results of operations.



     



     
    •
    
    Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of
    foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with
    favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and
    foreign tax audits, can affect our net income.



     



     
    •
    
    Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, and the Emerging Issues Task Force can affect
    reported results.




13



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    •
    
    Our results can also be affected by internal factors, such as
    changes in business strategies and the impact of restructurings,
    asset impairments, technology acquisition and disposition
    transactions, and business combinations.





Cautionary Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking
Statements



We have made certain forward-looking statements in this
Form 10-K, and
company spokespeople may make such statements in the future
based on then-current expectations of management. Where
possible, we try to identify forward-looking statements by using
such words as “expect,” “plan,”
“will,” “estimate,” “forecast,”
“project,” “believe,”
“anticipate,” and similar expressions. Forward-looking
statements do not relate strictly to historical or current
facts. They are likely to address our growth strategy, sales of
current and anticipated products, financial results, the results
of our research and development programs, the status of product
approvals, and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation
and investigations. All forward-looking statements made by us
are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those
summarized above, that may cause actual results to differ
materially from our expectations.



We undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements.


Item 1B