Item 1A.Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company. It is possible that our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.•Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and highly uncertain; we may not succeed in developing or acquiring commercially successful products to replace revenues of products losing patent protection. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market typically takes a decade or more and often costs well in excess of $1 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in the process after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and payer reimbursement, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies are establishing increasingly high hurdles of efficacy and safety for new product approvals; delays and uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval processes in other countries can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict sales growth rates of new products.•We face intense competition from multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and lower-cost generic manufacturers.  We compete with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical needs. Our product revenues can be adversely affected by the introduction by competitors of branded products that are perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of our branded products, and by generic versions of other products in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See Item 1, “Business—Competition,” for more details.•Our long-term success depends on intellectual property protection; if our intellectual property rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business will be adversely affected. Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in research and development and capital as well as other expenditures required to bring new drugs to the market.Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to invalidate our 16human pharmaceutical patents; as a result, we expect that our U.S. patents on major pharmaceutical products will be routinely challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld. See Item 1, “Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights,” for more details. We face generic manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as well. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in our being unable to market a product in a particular territory or being required to pay damages for past infringement or royalties on future sales. See Item 1, “Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights,” for more details.•We depend on patent-protected products for most of our revenues, cash flows, and earnings, and we will lose effective intellectual property protection for many of them in the next several years. Seven significant patent-protected products, which together composed 68 percent of our worldwide revenue in 2012, recently have lost, or will lose in the next several years, their most significant remaining U.S. patent protection and data-based protection, as well as their intellectual property-based exclusivity in most countries outside the United States:ProductWorldwide Revenues(2012)Percent of Total 2012RevenuesLoss of Relevant U.S. Exclusivity Cymbalta$4.99 billion22December 2013 (compound patent plus pediatric exclusivity)Alimta$2.59 billion112017 (compound patent plus pediatric exclusivity); 2022 (vitamin dosage regimen patent plus pediatric exclusivity)Humalog$2.40 billion11May 2013Cialis$1.93 billion92017Zyprexa$1.70 billion82011 Evista$1.01 billion4March 2014Strattera$621.4 million32017Outside the U.S., important patent or data package protection includes Cymbalta in major European countries (data package protection until August 2014); Alimta in major European countries (compound patent 2015; vitamin dosage regimen patent 2021); Cialis in major European countries (compound patent 2017); and Zyprexa in Japan (compound patent 2015).Loss of exclusivity, whether by expiration or as a consequence of litigation, typically results in a rapid and severe decline in sales. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Financial Condition,” and Item 1, “Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights,” for more details.•Our human pharmaceutical business is subject to increasing government price controls and other restrictions on pricing, reimbursement, and access for our drugs. Globally, governments are becoming increasingly aggressive in imposing health care cost-containment measures in response to budget deficit challenges. These measures can significantly affect our revenue and profitability. In many countries outside the U.S., government agencies strictly control, directly or indirectly, pricing, reimbursement, and patient access to our human pharmaceuticals. In the U.S., we are subject to substantial pricing, reimbursement, and access pressures from state Medicaid programs and private insurance programs and pharmacy benefit managers, including those operating under the Medicare Part D pharmaceutical benefit, and implementation of U.S. health care reform legislation is increasing these pricing pressures. In addition, many state legislative proposals would further negatively affect our pricing and reimbursement for, or access to, our products. Globally, public and private payers are increasingly restricting access to human pharmaceuticals based on the payers' assessments of comparative effectiveness and value. We expect pricing, reimbursement, and access pressures from both governments and private payers inside and outside the U.S. to become more severe. See Item I, “Business—Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access,” for more details.17•Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining revenue, as well as costly product liability claims.•Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the company. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, private payers, and consumers. These claims have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences to us. It is possible that we could become subject to such investigations and that the outcome could include criminal charges and fines, penalties, or other monetary or nonmonetary remedies, including exclusion from U.S. federal health care programs. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead to product recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products pending resolution of the cGMP issues. We are now operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that requires us to maintain comprehensive compliance programs governing our research, manufacturing, and sales and marketing of pharmaceuticals. A material failure to comply with the agreement could result in severe sanctions to the company. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation of our Operations,” for more details.•We face many product liability claims and are largely self-insured; we could face large numbers of claims in the future, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a substantial number of product liability claims involving primarily Byetta, Zyprexa, diethylstilbestrol (DES), Darvon®, and Prozac. See Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 15, Contingencies,” and Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for more information on our current product liability litigation. Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for these or other products in the future, which could require substantial expenditures to resolve and, if involving marketed products, could adversely affect sales of the product. Due to a very restrictive market for product liability insurance, we have been and will continue to be largely self-insured for product liability losses for substantially all our currently marketed products. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers on past claims.•Manufacturing difficulties or disruptions could lead to product supply problems. Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties at our facilities or contracted facilities, or the failure or refusal of a contract manufacturer to supply contracted quantities, could result in product shortages, leading to lost revenue. Such difficulties or disruptions could result from quality or regulatory compliance problems, natural disasters, or inability to obtain sole-source raw or intermediate materials. See Item 1, “Business—Raw Materials and Product Supply,” for more details.•Worsening economic conditions could adversely affect our business and operating results. While pharmaceuticals have not generally been sensitive to overall economic cycles, prolonged economic slowdowns could lead to decreased utilization of drugs, affecting our sales volume. Declining tax revenues attributable to economic downturns increase the pressure on governments to reduce health care spending, leading to increasing government efforts to control drug prices and utilization. Additionally, some customers, including governments or other entities reliant upon government funding, may be unable to pay in a timely manner for our products. We have experienced delays in repayment from national health care systems in certain countries, including but not limited to Greece and regions within Spain and Italy. The ongoing euro area financial crisis has heightened our sensitivity to such trends, and we continue to monitor the countries’ and regions’ creditworthiness. A prolonged economic downturn could also adversely affect our investment portfolio, which could lead to the recognition of losses on our corporate investments and increased benefit expense related to our pension obligations. Also, if our customers, suppliers or collaboration partners experience financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults by suppliers or collaboration partners.•We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure; system inadequacies, operating failures, or security breaches could harm our business. We rely to a large 18extent on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of these systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, and random attack. Likewise, confidentiality or data privacy breaches by employees or others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that valuable trade secrets, personal information, or other sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Such information security breaches may be very difficult to detect. To date, system breakdowns and, to the extent we have been made aware of them, security breaches, have been infrequent in occurrence and their aggregate impact on our operations and expenses has not been material. While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely and materially affect our business.•Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect our business. We utilize third parties, including suppliers, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third-party service providers, for selected aspects of product development, the manufacture and commercialization of certain products, support for information technology systems, and certain financial transactional processes. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to us could adversely affect our business. •Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and foreign tax audits, can affect our results of operations. The Obama administration has proposed changes to the manner in which the U.S. would tax the international income of U.S.-based companies. There have also been tax proposals under discussion or introduced in the U.S. Congress that could change the manner in and rate at which income of U.S. companies would be taxed. While it is uncertain how the U.S. Congress may address U.S. tax policy matters in the future, reform of U.S. taxation, including taxation of international income, will continue to be a topic of discussion for the U.S. Congress and the Obama administration. A significant change to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the taxation of international income, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Item 1B