Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to our Asset Management Business - Competition in the Asset Management Industry Could Reduce our Revenues and Net Income.”RegulationThe asset management industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state securities and other laws. The SEC is the federal agency charged with administration of the federal securities laws. Our distribution activities also may be subject to regulation by federal agencies, self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions in those states in which we conduct business. In addition, asset management firms are subject to regulation by various foreign governments, securities exchanges, central banks and regulatory bodies, particularly in those countries where they have established offices. Due to the extensive laws and regulations to which we are subject, we must devote substantial time, expense and effort to remaining vigilant about, and addressing, legal and regulatory compliance matters. Moreover, regulatory changes in one jurisdiction often affect our business operations in other jurisdictions.Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various laws and regulations around the world, some of which are summarized below. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investment advisory clients and investors in registered and unregistered investment companies. Under these laws and regulations, agencies that regulate investment advisers, investment funds and other individuals and entities have broad administrative powers, including the power to limit, restrict or prohibit the regulated entity or person from conducting business if it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Regulators also have a variety of informal enforcement mechanisms available that could have a significant impact on our business.  Possible sanctions for significant compliance failures include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain lines of business for specified periods of time, revocation of investment adviser and other registrations, censures and fines. A regulatory proceeding, regardless of whether it results in a sanction, can require substantial expenditures and can have an adverse effect on our reputation or business.9Regulatory ReformWe are subject to numerous regulatory reform initiatives around the world. Any such initiative, or any new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could materially and adversely impact us by leading to business disruptions, requiring us to change certain business practices and exposing us to additional costs (including compliance and legal costs). The rules governing the regulation of financial institutions and their holding companies and subsidiaries are very detailed and technical. Accordingly, the discussion below is general in nature, does not purport to be complete and is current only as of the date of this report.Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection ActIn July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the adoption of extensive regulations and numerous regulatory decisions, many of which have been adopted and others of which will be forthcoming. As the impact of these rules will become evident over time, it is not yet possible to predict the ultimate effects that the Dodd-Frank Act or subsequent implementing regulations and decisions will have on us.Systemically Important Financial Institution ReviewOn July 31, 2014, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) principals directed the staff to undertake a more focused analysis of industry-wide products and activities to assess potential risks associated with the asset management industry, and on December 18, 2014 the FSOC issued a Request for Information related to this analysis. In addition, on January 8, 2014, the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) and the International Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”) issued a consultative document on proposed methodologies to identify nonbank/noninsurance global systemically important financial institutions (“G-SIFI”).  A second FSB-IOSCO consultation is expected to be released in the near future. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, we could be designated a systemically important financial institution (“SIFI”) and become subject to direct supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). If we or any other asset manager were designated a SIFI or G-SIFI, we could become subject to enhanced prudential, capital, supervisory and other requirements, such as risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure report requirements, concentration limits, a contingent capital requirement, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and overall risk management requirements. Requirements such as these, which were designed to regulate banking institutions, would likely need to be modified to be applicable to an asset manager. No proposals have been made indicating how such measures would be adapted for asset managers.Money Market Fund ReformOn July 23, 2014, the SEC adopted final rules on money market fund reform (the “2014 Rules”), which are designed to reform the regulatory structure governing money market funds and to address the perceived systemic risks that such funds present. The 2014 Rules require any institutional prime money market fund and any institutional municipal (or tax-exempt) money market fund that is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 to utilize market-based valuations to calculate a floating net asset value (“NAV”) rather than using the amortized cost method for valuing securities maturing in more than 60 days to seek to maintain a stable NAV. The 2014 Rules also provide for new tools for the funds’ boards designed to address unanticipated changes in the demand for liquidity, or liquidity shocks, including liquidity fees and redemption gates. Institutional prime and institutional municipal money market funds and retail money market funds must comply with liquidity fees and redemption gate requirements, but these are optional for U.S. Government money market funds. Approximately 18% of our AUM as of March 31, 2015, consisted of assets in money market funds, of which institutional prime or institutional municipal money market funds (including offshore funds that feed into such money market funds) comprised approximately 80% of that total. The potential impact of the rules that affect the structure of the funds, which have a two-year compliance period, on our business remains untested.10Securities and Exchange Commission Review of Asset ManagersOur business may also be impacted by additional regulatory initiatives by the SEC.  In December 2014, the Chair of the SEC recommended that the SEC enhance its oversight of asset managers by (i) expanding and updating data requirements with which asset managers must comply, (ii) improving fund level controls, including those related to liquidity levels and the nature of specific instruments and (iii) ensuring that asset management firms have appropriate transition plans in place to deal with market stress events or situations where an investment adviser is no longer able to serve its clients. Although these recommendations have not yet resulted in any proposed rules, any additional SEC oversight or the introduction of any new reporting, disclosure or control requirements could expose us to additional compliance costs and may require us to change how we operate our business.Regulation of Derivatives The SEC, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) each continue to review the use of futures, swaps and other derivatives by mutual funds. Such reviews could result in regulations that further limit the use of such products by mutual funds. If adopted, these limitations could require us to change certain mutual fund business practices or to register additional entities with the CFTC, which could result in additional costs and/or restrictions. We also report certain information about a number of our private funds to the SEC and certain information to the CFTC, under systemic risk reporting requirements adopted by both agencies. These reporting obligations have required, and will continue to require, investments in people and systems to assure timely and accurate reporting. The rules and regulations applicable to offshore funds, accounts and counterparties will require us to build and implement new compliance monitoring procedures to address the enhanced level of oversight to which we will be subject. These rule changes also introduce new requirements for centrally clearing certain swap, and eventually security-based swap, transactions and for executing certain swap, and eventually security-based swap, transactions on or through CFTC or SEC-registered trading venues. Jurisdictions outside the United States in which we operate also have adopted and implemented, or are in the process of considering, adopting or implementing more pervasive regulation of many elements of the financial services industry, which could further impact us and the broader markets. This includes the implementation of mandated central clearing of swaps in the European Union (“EU”) and the implementation of trade reporting, documentation, central clearing and other requirements in various jurisdictions globally. Benchmark Reform In 2013, the IOSCO published principles for regulatory oversight of financial benchmarks, with standards applying to methodologies for benchmark calculation, and transparency and governance issues in the benchmarking process.  Regulators in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate are analyzing the application of these principles, with a draft European Regulation published in September 2013. In July 2014, the FSB published a report aimed at reforming major interest rate benchmarks. These regulations may result in business disruptions or strictly control the activities of financial services firms. Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Our European business is impacted by the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (“AIFMD”), which became effective on July 21, 2011. The AIFMD regulates managers of, and service providers to, a broad range of alternative investment funds (“AIFs”) domiciled within and (depending on the precise circumstances) outside the EU. The AIFMD also regulates the marketing of all AIFs inside the European Economic Area (“EEA”). The AIFMD is being implemented in stages, which run through 2018. Compliance with the AIFMD’s requirements restrict alternative investment fund marketing and impose additional compliance and disclosure obligations regarding remuneration, capital requirements, leverage, valuation, stakes in EU companies, depositaries, the domicile of custodians and liquidity management on us. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional expenses related satisfying these new compliance and disclosure obligations and the associated risk management and reporting requirements. Markets in Financial Instrument Directives We are subject to numerous regulatory reform initiatives in Europe. The United Kingdom and other European jurisdictions in which we operate have implemented the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”) rules into national legislation, and have begun to implement MiFID 2. MiFID 2 builds upon many of the initiatives introduced through 11MiFID, which focused primarily on equities, to encourage trading across all asset classes to migrate onto open and transparent markets. MiFID 2, which will come into full effect in January 2017, will be implemented through a number of more detailed directives, regulations and standards to be made by the European Commission and by the European Securities and Markets Authority (“ESMA”). It is expected that MiFID 2 will have significant and wide-ranging impacts on EU securities and derivatives markets, including (i) enhanced investor protection and governance standards, (ii) rules regarding the ability of portfolio management firms to receive and pay for investment research relating to all asset classes, (iii) enhanced regulation of algorithmic trading, (iv) the movement of trading in certain shares and derivatives onto regulated execution venues, (v) the extension of pre- and post-trade transparency requirements to wider categories of financial instruments, (vi) restrictions on the use of so-called dark pool trading, (vii) the creation of a new type of trading venue called the Organized Trading Facility for non-equity financial instruments, (viii) commodity derivative position limits and reporting requirements, (ix) a move away from vertical silos in execution, clearing and settlement, (x) an enhanced role for ESMA in supervising EU securities and derivatives markets and (xi) new requirements regarding non-EU investment firms’ access to EU financial markets. Implementation of these measures will have direct and indirect impacts on us and certain of our affiliates. Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities The EU has adopted directives on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (“UCITS”) with respect to depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions. UCITS V, which became effective in September 2014, seeks to align the depositary regime, remuneration rules and sanctioning powers of regulators under UCITS with the requirements of the AIFMD. UCITS V is required to be incorporated into the national law of each EU member state by second quarter of 2016. In addition, in August 2014 ESMA revised the guidelines it published in 2012 on ETFs and other UCITS funds. The guidelines introduced new collateral management requirements for UCITS funds concerning collateral received in the context of derivatives using Efficient Portfolio Management (“EPM”) techniques (including securities lending) and over-the-counter derivative transactions. These rules, which are now in effect, required us to make a series of changes to collateral management arrangements applicable to the EPM of UCITS fund ranges and will cause us to incur additional expenses associated with new risk management and reporting requirements. Extension of Retail Distribution Review The United Kingdom and other European jurisdictions in which we operate have recently implemented rules regarding retail distribution review (the “RDR”) aimed at enhancing consumer protections, overhauling mutual fund fee structures and increasing professionalism in the retail investment sector. In order to achieve this, RDR requires advisory firms to explicitly disclose and separately charge clients for their services and clearly describe their services as either independent or restricted.  It also requires individual advisers to adhere to consistent professional standards, including a code of ethics.  Similarly, MiFID 2 will contain a ban on certain advisers recovering commissions and other nonmonetary benefits from fund managers. These rules, if implemented, may lead to changes to the fees and commissions we are able to charge to our clients, as well as to our client servicing and distribution models. Existing U.S. RegulationOur U.S. asset managers are registered as investment advisors with the SEC, as are several of our international asset managers, and are also required to make notice filings in certain states. We and certain of our affiliates are also currently subject to regulation by the SEC, the Department of Labor (the “DOL”), the Federal Reserve, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), the National Futures Association (“NFA”), the CFTC and other government agencies and regulatory bodies. Certain of our affiliates are also subject to various anti-terrorist financing, privacy, anti-money laundering regulations and economic sanctions laws and regulations established by various agencies.     The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers such as us, including record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act of 1940 imposes stringent governance, compliance, operational, disclosure and related obligations on registered investment companies and their investment advisers and distributors. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the Investment Company Act of 1940, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Non-compliance with the Investment Advisers Act 12of 1940, the Investment Company Act of 1940 or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, disgorgement, fines and reputational damage. Our trading and investment activities for client accounts are regulated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), as well as the rules of various U.S. and non-U.S. securities exchanges and self-regulatory organizations, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical requirements and market regulation policies in the United States and globally. In addition, the SEC has recently promulgated new rules that give effect to a section of the Dodd-Frank Act that requires municipal advisors to register with the SEC. The new rules require entities that provide certain types of advice to, or on behalf of, or solicit municipal entities or certain other persons, to register with the SEC and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”) as municipal advisors, thereby subjecting those entities to new or additional regulation by the SEC and MSRB. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA. These self-regulatory organizations have adopted extensive regulatory requirements relating to matters such as sales practices, compensation and disclosure, and conduct periodic examinations of member broker-dealers in accordance with rules they have adopted and amended from time to time, subject to approval by the SEC. The SEC, self-regulatory organizations and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or registered employees. These administrative proceedings, whether or not resulting in adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and can have an adverse impact on the reputation or business of a broker-dealer. The principal purpose of regulation and discipline of broker-dealers is the protection of clients and the securities markets, rather than protection of creditors and stockholders of the regulated entity.In addition, our asset managers also may be subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), and related regulations, particularly insofar as they act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, and prohibit certain transactions involving the assets of ERISA plan clients and certain transactions by the fiduciaries (and several other related parties) to the plans. The Department of Labor, which administers ERISA, has been increasingly active in proposing and adopting regulations affecting the asset management industry, including the issuance for comment in April 2015 of a proposed fiduciary rule expanding the types of retirement advice covered by fiduciary protections.Existing International RegulationIn our international business, we have fund management, asset management, broker-dealer and distribution subsidiaries domiciled in a number of jurisdictions, including Australia, Brazil, Japan, Hong Kong, Ireland, Poland, Singapore, Taiwan and the United Kingdom that are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of, and to supervision by, governmental authorities and regulatory agencies in each of these jurisdictions. Our international subsidiaries are also authorized or licensed to offer their products and services in several other countries around the world, and thus are subject to the laws of, and to supervision by, governmental authorities in these additional countries. In addition, a subsidiary of Permal is a Bahamas bank regulated by the Central Bank of the Bahamas. In some instances, our international subsidiaries are also affected by U.S. laws and regulations that have extra-territorial application.  Our offshore proprietary funds are subject to the laws and regulatory bodies of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and, for funds listed on exchanges, to the rules of the applicable exchanges. Certain of our funds domiciled in Ireland and Luxembourg are also registered for public sale in several countries around the world and are subject to the laws of, and supervision by, the governmental authorities of those countries. All of these non-U.S. governmental authorities generally have broad supervisory and disciplinary powers, including, among others, the power to set minimum capital requirements, to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business, to suspend registered employees, and to invoke censures and fines for both the regulated business and its registered employees.The Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) currently regulates certain of our affiliates in the United Kingdom. Authorization by the FCA is required to conduct certain financial services related business in the United Kingdom under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The FCA’s rules adopted under that Act govern capital resources requirements, senior management arrangements, conduct of business, interaction with clients, and systems and controls. The FCA monitors our compliance with its requirements through a combination of proactive engagement, event-driven and reactive supervision and thematic based reviews. Breaches of the FCA’s rules may result in a wide range of disciplinary actions. 13In addition, certain of our affiliates must comply with the pan-European regulatory regime established by MiFID, which became effective on November 1, 2007 and regulates the provision of investment services and activities throughout the wider EEA. MiFID, the scope of which is being enhanced through MiFID 2, sets out detailed requirements governing the organization and conduct of business of investment firms and regulated markets. It also includes pre- and post-trade transparency requirements for equity markets and extensive transaction reporting requirements. Certain of our affiliates are subject to an EU regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, which was adopted in August 2012 and which requires (i) the central clearing of standardized OTC derivatives, (ii) the application of risk-mitigation techniques to non-centrally cleared OTC derivatives and (iii) the reporting of all derivative contracts from February 2014. In Australia, our affiliates are subject to various Australian federal and state laws and certain subsidiaries are regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (“ASIC”). ASIC is Australia’s corporate, markets and financial services regulator and is responsible for promoting investor, creditor and consumer protection.Net Capital RequirementsWe have three small, non-clearing broker-dealer subsidiaries that primarily distribute our funds and other asset management products.  These broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to net capital rules that mandate that they maintain certain levels of capital. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries that operate outside the United States are subject to net capital or liquidity requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example, in addition to requirements in other jurisdictions, our United Kingdom-based subsidiaries and our Singapore-based subsidiaries are subject to the net capital requirements of the FCA and the Monetary Authority of Singapore, respectively.14ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.Our business, and the asset management industry in general, is subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that could negatively affect our business or results of operations. These risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the ones discussed below and those discussed elsewhere herein and in our other filings with the SEC, could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we or any of our employees may make.Risks Related to our Asset Management BusinessPoor Investment Performance Could Lead to a Loss of Assets Under Management and a Decline in RevenuesWe believe that investment performance is one of the most important factors for the maintenance and growth of our AUM. Poor investment performance, either on an absolute or relative basis, could impair our revenues and growth because:•existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment advisory and other fees;•our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and•negative absolute investment performance will directly reduce our managed assets.In addition, in the ordinary course of our business we may reduce or waive investment management fees, or limit total expenses, on certain products or services for particular time periods to manage fund expenses, or for other reasons, and to help retain or increase managed assets. If our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. From time to time, several of our key equity and fixed income asset managers generated poor investment performance, on a relative basis or an absolute basis, in certain products or accounts that they managed, which contributed to a significant reduction in their AUM and revenues and a reduction in performance fees., and one of our asset managers currently faces these issues. There can be no assurances as to when, or if, investment performance issues will negatively influence our AUM and revenues.Assets Under Management May Be Withdrawn, Which May Reduce our Revenues and Net IncomeOur investment advisory and administrative contracts are generally terminable at will or upon relatively short notice, and investors in the mutual funds that we manage may redeem their investments in the funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional and individual clients can terminate their relationships with us, reduce the aggregate amount of AUM, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, changes in investment preferences of clients, changes in our reputation in the marketplace, changes in management or control of clients or third-party distributors with whom we have relationships, loss of key investment management or other personnel and financial market performance. This risk is underscored by the fact that we have one international client that represents approximately 9% (primarily liquidity assets) of our total AUM that generates approximately 2% of our operating revenues.  In addition, in a declining securities market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions and withdrawal of assets from other accounts could accelerate.   Poor investment performance generally or relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased purchases of fund shares, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of institutional or individual accounts. While we recorded approximately $16.5 billion in net long term inflows for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we experienced net outflows of equity AUM for the last nine fiscal years due in part to investment performance issues.  Though we experienced net long term inflows in fiscal year 2015, there can be no assurance that inflows will continue in the future.  During fiscal years 2015 and 2014, we had $5.7 billion of net client outflows and $8.3 billion of net client inflows, respectively, driven by flows in liquidity assets. The fiscal year 2015 net outflows included $22.2 billion in liquidity outflows and $2.7 billion in equity outflows, which were partially offset by $19.2 billion in fixed income inflows.  Fiscal year 2014 inflows were due to inflows in liquidity and fixed income of $12.1 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, partially offset by outflows in equity assets of $5.0 billion. 15 If we Are Unable to Maintain our Fee Levels or If our Asset Mix Changes, our Revenues and Margins Could Be ReducedOur profit margins and net income are dependent in significant part on our ability to maintain current fee levels for the products and services that our asset managers offer. There has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the asset management industry, and no assurances can be given that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure. Competition could lead to our asset managers reducing the fees that they charge their clients for products and services. See “Competition in the Asset Management Industry Could Reduce our Revenues and Net Income.” In addition, our asset managers may be required to reduce their fee levels, or restructure the fees they charge, because of, among other things, regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry-wide or specifically targeted, or court decisions. A reduction in the fees that our asset managers charge for their products and services will reduce our revenues and could reduce our net income. These factors also could inhibit our ability to increase fees for certain products.Our AUM can generate very different revenues per dollar of managed assets based on factors such as the type of asset managed (equity assets generally produce greater revenues than fixed income assets), the type of client (institutional clients generally pay lower fees than other clients), the type of asset management product or service provided and the fee schedule of the asset manager providing the service. A shift in the mix of our AUM from higher revenue-generating assets to lower revenue-generating assets may result in a decrease in our revenues even if our aggregate level of AUM remains unchanged or increases. A decrease in our revenues, without a commensurate reduction in expenses, will reduce our net income. Although we experienced a shift in the mix of our AUM during fiscal year 2015, during which our equity AUM increased from $186.4 billion (27% of our total AUM) on March 31, 2014 to $199.4 billion (28% of our total AUM) on March 31, 2015, there can be no assurances that this shift will continue. In addition, although equity AUM comprised a higher percentage of our total AUM as of March 31, 2015 as compared to March 31, 2014, average AUM advisory revenue yields, excluding performance fees, were 34 basis points in both years due to a less favorable product mix with lower yielding products comprising a higher percentage of our total average AUM for fiscal year 2015 as compared to fiscal year 2014.  There can be no assurance that we will achieve a more favorable product mix in future fiscal years.Our Mutual Fund Management Contracts May Not Be Renewed, Which May Reduce our Revenues and Net IncomeA substantial portion of our revenue comes from managing U.S. mutual funds. We generally manage these funds pursuant to management contracts with the funds that must be renewed and approved by the funds' boards of directors annually. A majority of the directors of each mutual fund are independent from us. Although the funds' boards of directors have historically approved each of our management contracts, there can be no assurance that the board of directors of each fund that we manage will continue to approve the funds’ management contracts each year, or will not condition its approval on the terms of the management contract being revised in a way that is adverse to us. If a mutual fund management contract is not renewed, or is revised in a way that is adverse to us, it could result in a reduction in our revenues and, if our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced.Unavailability of Appropriate Investment Opportunities Could Hamper our Investment Performance or GrowthAn important component of investment performance is the availability of appropriate investment opportunities for new client funds. If any of our asset managers are not able to find sufficient investments for new client assets in a timely manner, the asset manager's investment performance could be adversely affected. Alternatively, if one of our asset managers does not have sufficient investment opportunities for new funds, it may elect to limit its growth by reducing the rate at which it receives new funds. Depending on, among other factors, prevailing market conditions, the asset manager's investment style, regulatory and other limits and the market sectors and types of opportunities in which the asset manager typically invests (such as less capitalized companies and other more thinly traded securities in which relatively smaller investments are typically made), the risks of not having sufficient investment opportunities may increase when an asset manager increases its AUM, particularly when the increase occurs very quickly. If our asset managers are not able to identify sufficient investment opportunities for new client funds, their investment performance or ability to grow may be reduced.16Changes in Securities Markets and Prices May Affect our Revenues and Net IncomeA large portion of our revenue is derived from investment advisory contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the investment advisory fees we receive are typically based on the market value of assets under management. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities generally may cause our revenues and income to decline by:•causing the value of our AUM to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory and other fees;•causing our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive offer greater opportunity or lower risk, which would also result in lower investment advisory and other fees; or•decreasing the performance fees earned by our asset managers.There are often substantial fluctuations in price levels in the securities markets. These fluctuations can occur on a daily basis and over longer periods as a result of a variety of factors, including national and international economic and political events, broad trends in business and finance, and interest rate movements. Reduced securities market prices generally may result in reduced revenues from lower levels of AUM and loss or reduction in advisory, incentive and performance fees. Periods of reduced market prices may adversely affect our profitability because fixed costs remain relatively unchanged. Because we operate in one industry, the business cycles of our asset managers may occur contemporaneously. Consequently, the effect of an economic downturn may have a magnified negative effect on our business.In addition, as of March 31, 2015, a substantial portion of our invested assets consisted of securities and other seed capital investments.  A decline in the value of equity, fixed income or other alternative securities could lower the value of these investments and result in declines in our non-operating income and net income.  Increases or decreases in the value of these investments could increase the volatility of our earnings.Changes in Interest Rates Could Have Adverse Effects on our Assets Under ManagementIncreases in interest rates from their historically low present levels may adversely affect the net asset values of our AUM. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, institutional investors may shift liquidity assets that we manage in pooled investment vehicles to direct investments in the types of assets in which the pooled vehicles invest in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other products or strategies holding lower-yielding instruments.  Furthermore, increases in interest rates may result in reduced prices in equity markets. Conversely, decreases in interest rates could lead to outflows in fixed income or liquidity assets that we manage as investors seek higher yields. Any of these effects could lower our AUM and revenues and, if our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced.The current historically low interest rate environment affects the yields of money market funds, which are based on the income from the underlying securities less the operating costs of the funds. With short-term interest rates at or near zero, the operating expenses of money market funds may become greater than the income from the underlying securities, which reduces the yield of the money market funds to very low levels. In addition, bank deposits may become more attractive to investors and money market funds could experience redemptions, which could decrease our revenues and net income.  We are monitoring the industry wide low yields of money market funds, which may result in negative yields, particularly in Europe, which could have a significant adverse effect on the industry in general and our liquidity business in particular. During the past four fiscal years, we voluntarily waived certain fees or assumed expenses of money market funds for competitive reasons, such as to maintain competitive yields, which reduces our advisory fee income and net income.  These fee waivers for competitive reasons resulted in approximately $110 million in reduced investment advisory revenues in fiscal year 2015, and have continued into the present fiscal year.Competition in the Asset Management Industry Could Reduce our Revenues and Net IncomeThe asset management industry in which we are engaged is extremely competitive and we face substantial competition in all aspects of our business. We compete with numerous international and domestic asset management firms and broker-dealers, mutual fund complexes, hedge funds, commercial banks, insurance companies, other investment companies and other financial institutions. Many of these organizations offer products and services that are similar to, or compete with, those offered by our asset managers and have substantially more personnel and greater financial resources than we do. Some of these competitors have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. In addition, many of our competitors have long-standing and established relationships with 17distributors and clients. From time to time, our asset managers also compete with each other for clients and assets under management. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected if, among other things, our asset managers lose key employees or, as has been the case for certain of the products managed by our asset managers, under-perform in comparison to relevant performance benchmarks or peer groups.The asset management industry has experienced from time to time the entry of many new firms, as well as significant consolidation as numerous asset management firms have either been acquired by other financial services firms or ceased operations. In many cases, this has resulted in firms with greater financial resources than we have. In addition, a number of heavily capitalized companies, including commercial banks and foreign entities have made investments in and acquired asset management firms. Access to mutual fund distribution channels has also become increasingly competitive. All of these factors could make it more difficult for us to compete, and no assurance can be given that we will be successful in competing and growing our AUM and business. If clients and potential clients decide to use the services of competitors, it could reduce our revenues and growth rate, and if our revenues decrease without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. In this regard, there are a number of asset classes and product types that are not well covered by our current products and services. When these asset classes or products are in favor with investors, we will miss the opportunity to gain the assets under management that are being invested in these assets and face the risk of our managed assets being withdrawn in favor of competitors who provide services covering these classes or products. For example, to the extent there is a trend in the asset management business in favor of passive products such as index and certain types of exchange-traded funds, it favors our competitors who provide those products over active managers like our asset managers. In addition, our asset managers are not typically the lowest cost provider of asset management services. To the extent that we compete on the basis of price in any of our businesses, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure in that business, which could adversely affect our revenues and net income. In the retail separately managed account program business, there has been a trend toward more open programs that involve more asset managers who provide only investment models which the financial institution sponsor's employees use to allocate assets. A number of the programs for which we provide services have followed this trend, and additional programs could do so in the future.  This trend could result in AUM retention issues due to additional competition within the programs, particularly for products with performance issues, and reduced management fees, which are typical results of providing investment models rather than advisory services.Our business is asset management. As a result, we may be more affected by trends and issues affecting the asset management industry, such as industry-wide regulatory issues and inquiries, publicity about, and public perceptions of the industry and asset management industry market cycles, than other financial services companies that have more diversified businesses.We May Support Money Market Funds to Maintain Their Stable Net Asset Values, or Other Products we Manage, Which Could Affect our Revenues or Operating ResultsApproximately 18% of our AUM as of March 31, 2015, consisted of assets in money market funds. Money market funds seek to preserve a stable net asset value. The money market funds our asset managers manage have always maintained this stable net asset value. However, there is no guarantee that this stable net asset value will be achieved in the future. Market conditions could lead to severe liquidity or security pricing issues, which could impact their net asset values. If the net asset value of a money market fund managed by our asset managers were to fall below its stable net asset value, we would likely experience significant redemptions in AUM and reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or net income.  If a money market fund's stable net asset value comes under pressure, we may elect, as we have done in the past, to provide credit, liquidity, or other support to the fund. We may also elect to provide similar or other support, including by providing liquidity to a fund, to other products we manage for any number of reasons. We are not legally required to support any money market fund or other product and there can be no assurance that any support would be sufficient to avoid an adverse impact on any product or investors in any product. A decision to provide support may arise from factors specific to our products or from industry-wide factors. If we elect to provide support, we could incur losses from the support we provide and incur additional costs, including financing costs, in connection with the support. These losses and additional costs could be material, and could adversely affect our earnings. If we were to take such actions we may also restrict our corporate assets, limiting our flexibility to use these assets for other purposes, and may be required to raise additional capital.18Failure to Comply With Contractual Requirements or Guidelines Could Result in Liability and Loss of Assets Under Management, Both of Which Could Cause our Net Income to DeclineThe asset management contracts under which we manage client assets, including contracts with investment funds, often specify guidelines or contractual requirements that we are obligated to observe in providing asset management services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation, liability to the client or the client reducing its assets under our management, any of which could cause our revenues and net income to decline. This risk is increased by the trend toward customized, specialized mandates seen by many of our asset managers, which tends to result in more complex mandates that are more difficult to administer.The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect our BusinessVolatility in the markets has highlighted the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrated how the deteriorating financial condition of one institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions. Legg Mason, and the funds and accounts that we manage, has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. We, and the funds and accounts we manage, may be exposed to credit, operational or other risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client, or in the event of other unrelated systemic failures in the markets.Performance-Based Fee Arrangements May Increase the Volatility of our RevenuesA portion of our total revenues is derived from performance fees. Our asset managers earn performance fees under certain client agreements if the investment performance in the portfolio meets or exceeds a specified benchmark. If the investment performance does not meet or exceed the investment return benchmark for a particular period, the asset manager will not generate a performance fee for that period and, if the benchmark is based on cumulative returns, the asset manager's ability to earn performance fees in future periods may be impaired. As of March 31, 2015, approximately 7% of our AUM was in accounts or products that are eligible to earn performance fees.  We earned $83.5 million, $107.1 million and $98.6 million in performance fees during fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. An increase or decrease in performance fees, or in performance-based fee arrangements with our clients, could create greater fluctuations in our revenues.We Rely Significantly on Third Parties to Distribute Mutual Funds and Certain Other ProductsOur ability to market and distribute mutual funds and certain other investment products that we manage is significantly dependent on access to third-party financial intermediaries that distribute these products. These distributors are generally not contractually required to distribute our products, and typically offer their clients various investment products and services, including proprietary products and services, in addition to and in competition with our products and services. Relying on third-party distributors also exposes us to the risk of increasing costs of distribution, as we compensate them for selling our products and services in amounts that are agreed between them and us but which, in many cases, are largely determined by the distributor. There has been a recent trend of increasing fees paid to certain distributors in the asset management business, and our distribution costs have increased as a result.  While we have worked to diversify our distribution network, historically, many of the Legg Mason Funds were principally sold through the retail brokerage business of Citigroup. The retail business created by the combination of Morgan Stanley's brokerage unit and Citigroup's Smith Barney unit into Morgan Stanley Wealth Management remains a significant intermediary selling the Legg Mason Funds.  While the third-party distributors are compensated for distributing our products and services, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in distributing our products and services through them. In addition, mergers and other corporate transactions among distributors may affect our distribution relationships. For example, we are not able to predict the long-term effect of the Morgan Stanley Wealth Management business on our ability to continue to successfully distribute our funds and other products through it, or the costs of doing so.  If we are unable to distribute our products and services successfully, it will adversely affect our revenues and net income, and any increase in distribution-related expenses could adversely affect our net income.19Our Funds-of-Hedge Funds Business Entails a Number of Additional RisksPermal operates a portion of its business in the international funds-of-hedge funds business. The funds-of-hedge funds business typically involves clients being charged fees on two levels - at the funds-of-funds level and at the underlying funds level. These fees may include management fees and performance fees.  There can be no assurance that Permal will not be forced to change its fee structures by competitive or other pressures or that Permal's fee structures will not hamper its growth. Furthermore, Permal, consistent with other funds-of-hedge funds managers, has experienced a trend in recent years of outflows in business from retail high net worth clients and inflows from institutional clients, which has negatively impacted Permal’s revenues and profits.  There can be no assurance that Permal will be able to continue its transition into the institutional business, or that this transition will not further affect the revenues or profits of Permal.  In addition, Permal may generate significant performance fees from time to time, which could increase the volatility of our revenues. See “Performance-Based Fee Arrangements May Increase the Volatility of our Revenues.” Because Permal operates in the funds-of-hedge funds business globally, it is exposed to a number of regulatory authorities and requirements in different jurisdictions.Risks Related to our CompanyOur Leverage May Affect our Business and May Restrict our Operating ResultsAt March 31, 2015, on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $1.1 billion in total indebtedness, excluding debt of consolidated investment vehicles for which we are not responsible, and total stockholders' equity of $4.5 billion, and our goodwill and other intangible assets were $1.3 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. As of March 31, 2015, we had $750 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our various credit agreements, subject to certain conditions and compliance with the covenants in our bank debt agreements. As a result of this substantial indebtedness, we are currently required to use a portion of our cash flow to service interest on our debt, which will limit the cash flow available for other business opportunities. In addition, these servicing obligations will increase in the future as the principal payments on this debt become due or if we incur additional indebtedness.Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control and by a variety of factors specific to our business.The level of our indebtedness could:•limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future or to borrow under our existing credit facilities (our principal bank debt facility requires that (i) our ratio of net debt (total debt less unrestricted cash in excess of working capital) to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined therein) not exceed 2.5 to 1, and (ii) our ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to total cash interest payments on certain Indebtedness (as defined therein) exceeds 4 to 1);•limit cash flow available for general corporate purposes due to the ongoing cash flow requirements for debt service;•limit our flexibility, including our ability to react to competitive and other changes in the industry and economic conditions; and•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.As of March 31, 2015, under the terms of our bank credit agreement our ratio of net debt to Consolidated EBITDA was 1.3 to 1 and our ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to interest expense was 13.5 to 1, and, therefore, Legg Mason was in compliance with its bank financial covenants. If our net income significantly declines for any reason, it may be difficult to remain in compliance with these covenants. Similarly, to the extent that we spend our available cash for purposes other than repaying debt or acquiring businesses that increase our EBITDA, we will increase our net debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio. Although there are actions that we may take if our financial covenant compliance becomes an issue, there can be no assurance that Legg Mason will remain in compliance with its bank debt covenants.Our access to credit on reasonable terms is also partially dependent on our credit ratings.  If our credit ratings are downgraded, it will likely become more difficult and costly for us to access the credit markets or otherwise incur new debt.20Upon the occurrence of various events, such as a change of control, some or all of our outstanding debt obligations may come due prior to their maturity dates and may require payments in excess of their outstanding amounts, which in certain circumstances may be significant.We May Engage in Strategic Transactions That Could Create RisksAs part of our business strategy, we regularly review, are currently reviewing, and from time to time have discussions with respect to potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions and “lift-outs” of portfolio management teams, some of which may be material. There can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish our strategy, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired transactions. In addition, these transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including:•adverse effects on our reported earnings per share in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired;•existence of unknown liabilities or contingencies that arise after closing; and•potential disputes with counterparties.Acquisitions, related transactions and completed acquisitions, including the acquisitions of QS Investors and Martin Currie and the integration over time of Batterymarch and LMGAA into QS Investors and the combination of our Australian equities investment team into Martin Currie, pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. Following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. There can be no assurance that the seller will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us.Strategic transactions typically are announced publicly even though they may remain subject to numerous closing conditions, contingencies and approvals and there is no assurance that any announced transaction will actually be consummated. The failure to consummate an announced transaction could have an adverse effect on us. Future transactions may also further increase our leverage or, if we issue equity securities to pay for acquisitions, dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders.If our Reputation is Harmed, we Could Suffer Losses in our Business, Revenues and Net IncomeOur business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients and other market participants, and the resulting good reputation is critical to our business. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. Regulatory inquiries, employee misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed.  Regulatory sanctions or adverse litigation results can also cause substantial damage to our reputation.  Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our AUM, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income.Failure to Properly Address Conflicts of Interest Could Harm our Reputation, Business and Results of OperationsAs we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we must continue to address conflicts between our interests and those of our clients. In addition, the SEC and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have procedures and controls that are reasonably designed to address these issues. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, we could face reputational damage, litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties, any of which may adversely affect our revenues or net income.21Loss of Key Personnel Could Harm our BusinessWe are dependent on the continued services of a number of our key asset management personnel and our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of any of such personnel without adequate replacement could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, since certain of our asset managers contribute significantly to our revenues and net income, the loss of even a small number of key personnel at these businesses could have a disproportionate impact on our overall business. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with asset management experience in order to operate our business successfully. The market for experienced asset management professionals is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by the movement of employees among different firms. Due to the competitive market for asset management professionals and the success of some of our employees, our costs to attract and retain key employees are significant and will likely increase over time. From time to time, we may work with key employees to revise revenue sharing agreements and other employment-related terms to reflect current circumstances, including in situations where a revenue sharing agreement may result in insufficient revenues being retained by the subsidiary. In addition, since the investment track record of many of our products and services is often attributed to a small number of individual employees, and sometimes one person, the departure of one or more of these employees could cause the business to lose client accounts or managed assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our costs to do so increase significantly, our operations and financial results would be materially adversely affected.Our Business is Subject to Numerous Operational RisksWe face numerous operational risks related to our business on a day-to-day basis. Among other things, we must be able to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process trading activity, process client and investor transactions and provide reports and other customer service to our clients, investors and distributors. Failure to keep current and accurate books and records can render us subject to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. A portion of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. A suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. If any of our financial, portfolio accounting or other data processing systems, or the systems of third parties on whom we rely, do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, or those of third parties on whom we rely, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, a financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory problems or damage to our reputation. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more offices (as occurred with one of our New York City offices when the office building in which it was located was flooded by Hurricane Sandy in October 2012). In addition, our operations are dependent upon information from, and communications with, third parties, and operational problems at third parties may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business.We depend on our headquarters, the offices of our subsidiaries, our operations centers and third-party providers for the continued operation of our business. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our business, a disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our asset managers, or an event disrupting the ability of our employees to perform their job functions, including terrorist attacks or a disruption involving electrical communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, directly affecting our headquarters, the offices of our subsidiaries, our operations centers or the travel of our sales, client service and other personnel, may have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption or impede the growth of our business.   Although we have disaster recovery and business continuity programs in place, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. If we fail to keep business continuity plans up-to-date or if such plans, including secure back-up facilities and systems, are improperly implemented or deployed during a disruption, our ability to operate could be adversely impacted or our ability to comply with regulatory obligations leading to reputational harm, regulatory fines and sanctions. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses.22Failure to implement effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses Our operations rely on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities to provide secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems, networks and mobile devices and on the computer systems, networks and mobile devices of third parties on which we rely. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software, networks and mobile devices, and those of third parties on whom we rely, may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks, sabotage, unauthorized access, computer viruses, worms or other malicious code, and other events that have a security impact. An externally caused information security incident, such as a hacker attack, virus or worm, or an internally caused issue, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information and could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability. If one or more of such events occur, it potentially could jeopardize our or our clients', employees' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our or third party computer systems, networks and mobile devices, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations.  As a result, we could experience material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could cause a decline in our earnings. We may be required to spend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against fully or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain.We May Incur Charges Related to Leased FacilitiesWe continue to be exposed to the risk of incurring charges related to subleases or vacant space for several of our leased offices. As of March 31, 2015, our future commitments from third parties under non-cancellable subleases were approximately $163 million, which in total, net of reserves, effectively offsets obligations under our leases for the properties.  As of March 31, 2015, our total future lease commitments for office space that we vacated and are seeking to sublease were approximately $5 million, of which we reserved approximately $2 million through lease charges to our earnings during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015.  Under generally accepted accounting principles, at the time a sublease is entered into or space is deemed permanently abandoned, we must incur a charge equal to the present value of the amount by which the commitments under the lease exceeds the amount due, or amount expected to be received, under a sublease.  As a result, in a period of declining commercial lease markets, we are exposed to the risk of incurring charges relating to any premises we are seeking to sublease resulting from longer periods to identify sub-tenants and reduced market rent rates leading to new sub-tenants paying less in rent than we are paying under our lease.  Also, if a sub-tenant defaults on its sublease, we would likely incur a charge for the rent that we will incur during the period that we expect would be required to sublease the premises and any reduction in rent that current market rent rates lead us to expect a new sub-tenant will pay.  This risk is underscored by the fact that one sub-tenant represents approximately half of the future sublease rent commitments described above. There can be no assurance that we will not recognize additional lease-related charges, which may be material to our results of operations.Potential Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Could Increase our Expenses and Reduce our AssetsDetermining goodwill and intangible assets, and evaluating them for impairment, requires significant management estimates and judgment, including estimating value and assessing life in connection with the allocation of purchase price in the acquisition creating them. Our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired as a result of any number of factors, including losses of investment management contracts or declines in the value of managed assets. Any impairment of goodwill or intangibles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, we incurred aggregate impairment charges of $734 million ($508 million, net of taxes) primarily relating to domestic mutual fund contracts and Permal funds-of-hedge funds contracts. Changes in the assumptions underlying projected cash flows from the assets or reporting unit, resulting from market conditions, reduced AUM or other factors, could result in an impairment of any of these assets.The domestic mutual fund contracts asset acquired in the 2005 acquisition of the Citigroup Asset Management (“CAM”) business of $2.1 billion and the Permal funds-of-hedge funds contracts assets of $698 million account for approximately 65% and 20%, respectively, of our indefinite-life intangible assets, while the goodwill in our reporting unit 23aggregates $1.3 billion. As of March 31, 2015, we also have $487 million of other indefinite-life intangible assets, which includes an indefinite-life mutual funds contract asset of $124 million recorded at fair value in connection with the acquisition of Martin Currie (Holdings) Limited in October 2014.The carrying values of domestic mutual fund contracts and Permal funds-of-hedge funds contracts assets were both written down to their respective fair values as a result of the aforementioned impairments during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. As a result, decreases in our cash flow projections or increases in the discount rates, resulting from actual results or changes in assumptions, resulting from market conditions, reduced AUM, less favorable operating margins, lower yielding asset mixes, and other factors, may result in further impairments of these assets. There can be no assurances that continued market uncertainty or asset outflows, or other factors, will not produce an additional impairment in either asset, particularly for the Permal funds-of-hedge funds contracts asset.During the three months ended March 31, 2015, no triggering events required that we consider impairment tests of any of our intangible assets or goodwill subsequent to our annual December 31 impairment tests. We completed our annual impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets during the quarter ended December 31, 2014, and determined that there was no impairment in the value of these assets as of December 31, 2014.  Cash flows through December 31, 2014, from our Permal funds-of-hedge funds contracts were slightly lower than the growth assumptions related to the Permal fund-of-hedge funds contracts assets impairment testing at December 31, 2013. Therefore, market decreases, outflows or other changes in actual results or the assumptions noted above may result in an impairment of the Permal fund-of-hedge-funds. As of December 31, 2014, the date of our most recent annual testing, the estimated fair value of the Permal funds-of-hedge funds contracts asset exceeded the related carrying value by approximately $88 million and continues to have the lowest level of excess fair value over carrying value of our more significant mutual fund contract intangible assets. Assuming all other factors remain the same, our actual results and/or changes in assumptions for the Permal funds-of-hedge funds contracts cash flow projections over the long term would have to deviate by more than 10%, or the discount rate would have to increase from 14.5% to more than 15.5% for the asset to be deemed impaired.Cash flows through December 31, 2014, from our domestic mutual fund contracts compared favorably to the growth assumptions related to the domestic mutual fund contracts assets impairment testing at December 31, 2013, but the related carrying value remains sensitive to changes in the actual results or assumptions noted above. Therefore, market decreases, outflows or other changes in actual results or the assumptions noted above may result in an impairment of the domestic mutual fund contracts assets. As of December 31, 2014, the date of our most recent annual testing, the estimated fair value of the domestic mutual fund contracts asset exceeded the related carrying value by approximately $865 million.  Assuming all other factors remain the same, our actual results and/or changes in assumptions for the domestic mutual fund contracts cash flow projections over the long term would have to deviate by more than 30%, or the discount rate would have to increase from 13.5% to more than 16.5% for the asset to be deemed impaired. Cash flows from our reporting unit and other indicators of the reporting unit’s fair value have improved notably since December 31, 2014, such that its estimated fair value exceeds its aggregate carrying value by a material amount at December 31, 2014. However, changes in the assumptions underlying projected cash flows from the reporting unit or its EBITDA multiple, resulting from market conditions, reduced AUM or other factors, could still result in an impairment of goodwill.There can be no assurances that continued market uncertainty or asset outflows, or other factors, will not produce an additional impairment. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Intangible Assets and Goodwill.”Our Deferred Tax Assets May Not Be Fully RealizableAs of March 31, 2015, we had approximately $702.2 million in U.S. federal deferred tax assets, which represent tax benefits that we expect to realize in future periods. Under accounting rules, we are required to recognize a charge to earnings to reduce our deferred tax assets if it is determined that any future tax benefits are not likely to be realized before they expire. Deferred tax assets generated in U.S. jurisdictions resulting from net operating losses generally expire 20 years after they are generated. Those resulting from foreign tax credits generally expire 10 years after they are generated. In order to realize these future tax benefits, we estimate that we must generate approximately $3.5 billion in future U.S. earnings before the benefits expire. There can be no assurances that we will achieve this level of earnings before some portion of these tax benefits expires. In addition, our belief that we will likely be able to realize these future tax benefits is based in part upon our estimates of the timing of other differences in revenue and expense recognition between tax returns and 24financial statements and our understanding of the application of tax regulations, which may prove to be incorrect for any number of reasons, including future changes in tax or accounting regulations. If we are required to recognize a charge to earnings to reduce our deferred tax assets, the charge may be material to our earnings or financial condition.We Are Exposed to a Number of Risks Arising From our International OperationsOur asset managers operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United States on behalf of international clients. We have offices in numerous countries and many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the United States. Our international operations require us to comply with the legal requirements of various foreign jurisdictions, expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences which, among other things, make it more difficult to repatriate to the United States the cash that we generate outside the U.S. At March 31, 2015, our total liquid assets, which include cash, cash equivalents and certain current investment securities, of $1.0 billion included approximately $378 million of cash and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries, some of which, if repatriated, may be subject to material tax effects.  Furthermore, despite controls and other actions reasonably designed to mitigate these risks, our international operations expose us to risks arising from Legg Mason's potential responsibility for actions of third party agents and other representatives of our business operating outside our primary jurisdictions of operation.  Our foreign business operations are also subject to the following risks:•difficulty in managing, operating and marketing our international operations;•fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on AUM and revenues in our U.S. dollar-based financial statements; and•significant adverse changes in foreign political, economic, legal and regulatory environments.Legal and Regulatory RisksRegulatory Matters May Negatively Affect our Business and Results of OperationsOur business is subject to regulation by various regulatory authorities around the world that are charged with protecting the interests of our clients. We could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanction, including revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisers, revocation of the licenses of our employees, censures, fines, or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, if we violate such laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, reputation, and business prospects. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. Our profitability could be materially and adversely affected by modification of the rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities in general, including changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce.  In particular, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant additional costs as a result of regulatory changes affecting U.S. mutual funds and changes to European mutual fund regulation. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. The challenges associated with consistently interpreting regulations issued in multiple countries may add to such risks. For example, we note that the U.S. federal government has made, and has proposed further, significant changes to the regulatory structure of the financial services industry, and we expect to spend time and resources to comply with these regulatory changes.  For a summary of the laws, regulations and regulators to which we are subject, see “Item 1 - Business - Regulation.”Instances of criminal activity and fraud by participants in the asset management industry, disclosures of trading and other abuses by participants in the financial services industry and significant governmental intervention and investment in the financial markets and financial firms have led the U.S. government and regulators to increase the rules and regulations governing, and oversight of, the U.S. financial system. This activity has resulted in changes to the laws and regulations governing the asset management industry and more aggressive enforcement of the existing laws and regulations. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act provides for a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services regulatory environment and requires the adoption of extensive regulations and many regulatory decisions to be implemented. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will, and other provisions may, require us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business, will or may increase regulatory compliance burdens, and may have unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets.  The ongoing revisions to the laws and regulations governing our business, 25and their counterparts internationally, are an ongoing process. The cumulative effect of these actions may result in increased expenses, or lower management or other fees, and therefore adversely affect the revenues or profitability of our business.Our Business Involves Risks of Being Engaged in Litigation and Liability That Could Increase our Expenses and Reduce our Net IncomeMany aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. In the normal course of business, our asset managers are from time to time named as defendants or co-defendants in lawsuits, or are involved in disputes that involve the threat of lawsuits, seeking substantial damages. We are also involved from time to time in governmental and self-regulatory organization investigations and proceedings, including the regulatory proceedings discussed in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we are involved in a tax dispute in Brazil arising from matters relating to the tax deductibility of goodwill amortization with respect to the Brazilian business of our subsidiary, Western Asset Management.  The current amount involved in the dispute is over $40 million.  It may take another five years or more to achieve final resolution of this matter as it potentially could go through multiple levels of appeal.  During that time the current $40 million amount in dispute could increase to approximately $80 million due to additional interest and penalty accruals and denial of future year deductions.  While there can be no assurance of the timing or outcome of this dispute, we and our local advisors believe that our tax position is correct and it is more likely than not that we will not be required to pay the taxes in question or any related interest and penalties.In addition, the investment funds that our asset managers manage are subject to actual and threatened lawsuits and governmental and self-regulatory organization investigations and proceedings, any of which could harm the investment returns or reputation of the applicable fund or result in our asset managers being liable to the funds for any resulting damages. There has been an increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the asset management industry in recent years, including customer claims as well as class action suits seeking substantial damages. Any litigation can increase our expenses and reduce our net income.Insurance May Not Be Available on a Cost Effective Basis to Protect us From LiabilityWe face the inherent risk of liability related to litigation from clients, third-party vendors or others and actions taken by regulatory agencies. To help protect against these potential liabilities, we purchase insurance in amounts, and against risks, that we consider appropriate, where such insurance is available at prices we deem acceptable. There can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that any insurer will remain solvent and will meet its obligations to provide us with coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available with sufficient limits at a reasonable cost. Insurance costs are impacted by market conditions and the risk profile of the insured, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. In addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. Renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability.26ITEM 1B