ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.        

        Our business, and the asset management industry in general, is subject to numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that could
negatively affect our business or results of operations. These risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the ones discussed below and those discussed elsewhere herein and in our other filings
with the SEC, could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we or any of our employees may make. 

        
Our Leverage May Affect our Business and May Restrict our Operating Results  

        At March 31, 2011, on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $1.5 billion in total indebtedness, excluding debt of
consolidated investment vehicles for which we are not responsible, and total stockholders' equity of $5.8 billion, and our goodwill and other intangible assets were $1.3 billion and
$3.9 billion, respectively. As of March 31, 2011, we had $265 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our various credit agreements, subject to certain conditions
and compliance with the covenants in our outstanding indebtedness. As a result of this substantial indebtedness, we are required to use a significant portion of our cash flow to service principal and
interest on our debt, which will limit the cash flow available for other business opportunities. In addition, these servicing obligations would increase in the future if we incur additional
indebtedness. 

        Our
ability to make scheduled payments of principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future
operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control and by a variety of factors specific to
our business. 

        The
level of our indebtedness could: 



•limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future or to borrow under our existing credit facilities (our
principal bank debt facilities require that (i) our ratio of net debt (total debt less unrestricted cash in excess of working capital) to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined therein) not exceed 2.5
to 1 and (ii) our ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to total cash interest payments on certain Indebtedness (as defined therein) exceeds 4 to 1 while another debt facility prevents us from incurring
additional debt, with certain exceptions, if our total debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined therein) exceeds 2.5 to 1);   
•limit cash flow available for general corporate purposes due to the ongoing cash flow requirements for debt service;  
•limit our flexibility, including our ability to react to competitive and other changes in the industry and economic
conditions and our ability to provide support, should we elect to do so, to funds that our subsidiaries manage; and   
•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. 


        As
of March 31, 2011, under the terms of our bank credit agreements our ratio of net debt to Consolidated EBITDA was 1.1 and our ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to interest expense
was 12.9, and, therefore, Legg Mason was in compliance with its bank financial covenants. If our net income significantly declines for any reason, it may be difficult to remain in compliance with
these covenants. Similarly, to the extent that we spend our available cash for purposes other than repaying debt or acquiring businesses that increase our EBITDA, we will increase our net debt to
Consolidated EBITDA ratio. Although there are actions that we may take if our financial covenant compliance becomes an issue, there can be no assurance that Legg Mason will remain in compliance with
its bank debt covenants. We 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

anticipate
that we will have available cash to repay all or a portion of our bank debt, should it be necessary. In addition, under the terms of the debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio covenant that we
entered into in connection with the issuance of the 2.5% senior convertible notes, we may not, with certain exceptions, incur additional debt at any time when the ratio exceeds 2.5. As of
March 31, 2011, the ratio was 2.6 and thus the only new debt we could have incurred would be as allowed by the covenant exceptions. 


        Upon
the occurrence of various events, such as a change of control, some or all of our outstanding debt obligations may come due prior to their maturity dates and may require payments in
excess of their outstanding amounts, which in certain circumstances may be significant. 

        
We May Support Money Market Funds to Maintain Their Stable Net Asset Values, or Other Products we Manage, Which Could Affect our Revenues or Operating Results  

        Approximately 19% of our assets under management as of March 31, 2011 consisted of assets in money market funds. Money market
funds seek to preserve a stable net asset value. The money market funds our asset managers manage have always maintained this stable net asset value. However, there is no guarantee that this stable
net asset value will be achieved in the future. Market conditions could lead to severe liquidity or security pricing issues, which could impact their net asset values. If the net asset value of a
money market fund managed by our asset managers were to fall below its stable net asset value, we would likely experience significant redemptions in assets under management and reputational harm,
which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or net income. 

        If
a money market fund's stable net asset value comes under pressure, we may elect, as we have done in the past, to provide credit, liquidity, or other support to the fund. We may also
elect to provide similar support to other products we manage for any number of reasons. We are not legally required to support any money market fund or other product and there can be no assurance that
any support would be sufficient to avoid an adverse impact on any product or investors in any product. A decision to provide support may arise from factors specific to our products or from
industry-wide factors. If we elect to provide support, we could incur losses from the support we provide and incur additional costs, including financing costs, in connection with the support. These
losses and additional costs could be material, and could adversely affect our earnings. If we were to take such actions we
may also restrict our corporate assets, limiting our flexibility to use these assets for other purposes, and may be required to raise additional capital. 


        
Poor Investment Performance Could Lead to a Loss of Assets Under Management and a Decline in Revenues  

        We believe that investment performance is one of the most important factors for the maintenance and growth of our assets under
management. Poor investment performance, either on an absolute or relative basis, could impair our revenues and growth because: 



•existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment
advisory and other fees;   
•our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and   
•negative absolute investment performance will directly reduce our managed assets. 


        In
addition, in the ordinary course of our business we may reduce or waive investment management fees, or limit total expenses, on certain products or services for particular time
periods to manage fund expenses, or for other reasons, and to help retain or increase managed assets. For example, during fiscal years 2010 and 2011, we voluntarily waived certain fees from or assumed
certain expenses of money market funds for competitive reasons. If our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. During fiscal years 2008
through 2010, several of our key equity and fixed income asset managers generated poor investment performance, on a relative basis or an absolute basis, in certain products or accounts that they
managed. These investment performance issues contributed to a significant reduction in their assets under management and revenues and a reduction in performance fees. Although our overall investment
performance improved significantly in fiscal year 2010 and was mixed during fiscal year 2011, there is typically a lag before improvements in investment performance produce a positive effect on 

13




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



asset
flows. There can be no assurances as to when investment performance issues will cease to influence our assets under management and revenues. 

        
Assets Under Management May Be Withdrawn, Which May Reduce our Revenues and Net Income  

        Our investment advisory and administrative contracts are generally terminable at will or upon relatively short notice, and investors in
the mutual funds that we manage may redeem their investments in the funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional and individual clients can terminate their relationships with us, reduce the
aggregate amount of assets under management, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in
prevailing interest rates, changes in investment preferences of clients, changes in our reputation in the marketplace, changes in management or control of clients or third-party distributors with whom
we have relationships, loss of key investment management or other personnel and financial market performance. This risk is underscored by the fact that we have one international client that represents
approximately 5% of our total assets under management (although it generates less than 2% of our operating revenues). In addition, in a declining securities market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions
and withdrawal of assets from other accounts could accelerate. Poor investment performance generally or relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased purchases of fund
shares, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of institutional or individual accounts. Due in part to investment performance issues, we have experienced net outflows of equity and fixed
income assets under management for the last five and three fiscal years, respectively. While the rate of outflows decreased in fiscal year 2011, there can be no assurances as to when, or if, the flows
will reverse. During fiscal years 2011 and 2010 we had $61.1 billion and $82.0 billion, respectively, in aggregate net client outflows. The fiscal year 2011 outflows included
$37.0 billion in fixed income asset outflows, $15.9 billion in liquidity asset outflows and $8.2 billion in equity asset outflows. 

        
If we Are Unable to Maintain our Fee Levels or If our Asset Mix Changes, our Revenues and Margins Could Be Reduced  

        Our profit margins and net income are dependent in significant part on our ability to maintain current fee levels for the products and
services that our asset managers offer. There has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the asset management industry, and no assurances can be given that we will be able to maintain our
current fee structure. Competition could lead to our asset managers reducing the fees that they charge their clients for products and services. See " — Competition in the Asset
Management Industry Could Reduce our Revenues and Net Income." In addition, our asset managers may be required to reduce their fee levels, or restructure the fees they charge, because of, among other
things, regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry-wide or specifically targeted or court decisions. A reduction in the fees that our asset managers charge for their
products and services will reduce our revenues and could reduce our net income. These factors also could inhibit our ability to increase fees for certain products. 

        Our
assets under management can generate very different revenues per dollar of managed assets based on factors such as the type of asset managed (equity assets generally produce greater
revenues than fixed income assets), the type of client (institutional clients generally pay lower fees than other clients), the type of asset management product or service provided and the fee
schedule of the asset manager providing the service. A shift in the mix of our assets under management from higher revenue-generating assets to lower revenue-generating assets may result
in a decrease in our revenues even if our aggregate level of assets under management remains unchanged or increases. A decrease in our revenues, without a commensurate reduction in expenses, will
reduce our net income. We experienced such a shift in the mix of our assets under management during fiscal years 2009 and 2008. While this trend reversed during fiscal year 2010 and fiscal year 2011,
during which our equity assets under management increased from $173.8 billion (25% of our total assets under management) on March 31, 2010 to $189.6 billion (28% of our total
assets under management) on March 31, 2011, there can be no assurance that this reversal will continue. 

        
We May Not Receive the Benefits that we Expect from our Initiative to Streamline our Business Model  

        On May 10, 2010, we announced an initiative to streamline our business model to increase operating efficiency and overall
profitability and growth. This initiative will include transitioning certain support services to our asset 

14




 


<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



managers,
our Americas distribution group sharing in revenue on retail based assets under management and reductions in our corporate staff. Our ability to realize the projected benefits of the
initiative is subject to many risks, and no assurances can be given that we will achieve the expected results. These risks include the possibility that one or more of our asset managers, due to market
conditions or for other reasons, does not take on, operationally or financially, some or all of the services that we plan to transition; that market conditions or other factors result in a lower rate
of assets under management growth or worse financial results than we currently anticipate; and that we are not able to reduce our corporate costs as much as we currently plan. In addition, we might
have to incur higher costs than currently anticipated to complete the initiative, and, for any number of reasons, the initiative might not be completed on the current timetable. Finally, our business
is dynamic, and we may elect to incur currently unexpected incremental expenses from time to time to grow and better support our business that would partially offset the benefits of the initiative. 

        
Our Mutual Fund Management Contracts May Not Be Renewed, Which May Reduce our Revenues and Net Income  

        A substantial portion of our revenues comes from managing U.S. mutual funds. We generally manage these funds pursuant to management
contracts with the funds that must be renewed and approved by the funds' boards of directors annually. A majority of the directors of each mutual fund are independent from us. Although the funds'
boards of directors have historically approved each of our management contracts, there can be no assurance that the board of directors of each fund that we manage will continue to approve the fund's
management contract each year, or will not condition its approval on the terms of the management contract being revised in a way that is adverse to us. If a mutual fund management contract is not
renewed, or is revised in a way that is adverse to us, it could result in a reduction in our revenues and, if our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will
be reduced. 

        
Unavailability of Appropriate Investment Opportunities Could Hamper our Investment Performance or Growth  

        An important component of investment performance is the availability of appropriate investment opportunities for new client funds. If
any of our asset managers is not able to find sufficient investments for new client assets in a timely manner, the asset manager's investment performance could be adversely affected. Alternatively, if
one of our asset managers does not have sufficient investment opportunities for new funds, it may elect to limit its growth by reducing the rate at which it receives new funds. Depending on, among
other factors, prevailing market conditions, the asset manager's investment style, regulatory and other limits and the market sectors and types of opportunities in which the asset manager typically
invests (such as less capitalized companies and other more thinly traded securities in which relatively smaller investments are typically made), the risks of not having sufficient investment
opportunities may increase when an asset manager increases its assets under management, particularly when the increase occurs very quickly. If our asset managers are not able to identify sufficient
investment opportunities for new client funds, their investment performance or ability to grow may be reduced. 

        
Changes in Securities Markets and Prices May Affect our Revenues and Net Income  

        A large portion of our revenues is derived from investment advisory contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the investment
advisory fees we receive are typically based on the market value of assets under management. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities generally may cause our revenues and income to decline
by: 



•causing the value of our assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory and other
fees;   
•causing our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive offer greater opportunity or lower risk, which
would also result in lower investment advisory and other fees; or   
•decreasing the performance fees earned by our asset managers. 


        We
experienced such a decline in the equity and fixed income markets during fiscal year 2009 which contributed to a decline in our assets under management and revenues during the year.
While this market decline reversed in fiscal 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents

years
2010 and 2011, the markets generally have not returned to their prior levels. If our revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. 

        There
are substantial fluctuations in price levels in the securities markets. These fluctuations can occur on a daily basis and over longer periods as a result of a variety of factors,
including national and international economic and political events, broad trends in business and finance, and interest rate movements. Reduced securities market prices generally may result in reduced
revenues from lower levels of assets under management and loss or reduction in incentive and performance fees. Periods of reduced market prices may adversely affect our profitability because fixed
costs remain relatively unchanged. Because we operate in one industry, the business cycles of our asset managers may occur contemporaneously. Consequently, the effect of an economic downturn may have
a magnified negative effect on our business. 

        
Changes in Interest Rates Could Have Adverse Effects on our Assets Under Management  

        Increases in interest rates from their historically low present levels may adversely affect the net asset values of our assets under
management. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment institutional investors may shift liquidity assets that we manage in pooled investment vehicles to direct investments in the types of
assets in which the pooled vehicles invest in order to realize higher yields. Furthermore, increases in interest rates may result in reduced prices in equity markets. Conversely, decreases in interest
rates could lead to outflows in fixed income or liquidity assets that we manage as investors seek higher yields. Any of these effects could lower our assets under management and revenues and, if our
revenues decline without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. 

        The
current historically low interest rate environment affects the yields of money market funds, which are based on the income from the underlying securities less the operating costs of
the funds. With short term interest rates at or near zero, the operating expenses of money market funds may become greater than the income from the underlying securities. During fiscal years 2010 and
2011, we voluntarily waived certain fees or assumed expenses of money market funds for competitive reasons such as to maintain positive yields. These actions have reduced our revenues and net income,
and have continued into the present fiscal year. 

        
Competition in the Asset Management Industry Could Reduce our Revenues and Net Income  

        The asset management industry in which we are engaged is extremely competitive and we face substantial competition in all aspects of
our business. We compete with numerous international and domestic asset management firms and broker-dealers, mutual fund complexes, hedge funds, commercial banks, insurance companies, other investment
companies and other financial institutions. Many of these organizations offer products and services that are similar to, or compete with, those offered by our asset managers and have substantially
more personnel and greater financial resources than we do. Some of these competitors have proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. In
addition, many of our competitors have long-standing and established relationships with distributors and clients. From time to time, our asset managers also compete with each other for
clients and assets under management. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected if, among other things, our asset managers lose key employees or, as has recently been the case for certain of the
products managed by our asset managers, under-perform in comparison to relevant performance benchmarks or peer groups. 


        The
asset management industry has experienced from time to time the entry of many new firms to the industry, as well as significant consolidation as numerous asset management firms have
either been acquired by other financial services firms or ceased operations. In many cases, this has resulted in firms with greater financial resources than we have. In addition, a number of heavily
capitalized companies, including commercial banks and foreign entities have made investments in and acquired asset management firms. Access to mutual fund distribution channels has also become
increasingly competitive. All of these factors could make it more difficult for us to compete, and no assurance can be given that we will be successful in competing and growing our assets under
management and business. If clients and potential clients decide to use the services of competitors, it could reduce our revenues and growth rate, and if our revenues decrease without a commensurate
reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. In this regard, there are a number of asset classes that are not well covered by our current products and services. When these asset classes 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



are
in favor with investors, we will miss the opportunity to gain the assets under management that are being invested in these assets and face the risk of our managed assets being withdrawn in favor
of competitors who provide services covering these classes. For example, to the extent there is a trend in the asset management business in favor of passive products such as index and exchange traded
funds, it favors our competitors who provide those products over active managers like our asset managers. In addition, our asset managers are not typically the lowest cost provider of asset management
services. To the extent that we compete on the basis of price in any of our businesses, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure in that business, which could adversely affect our
revenues and net income. In the retail separately managed account program business, there has been a trend toward more open programs that involve more asset managers who provide only investment models
which the financial institution sponsor's employees use to allocate assets. If the programs for which we provide services follow this trend, it could result in assets under management retention issues
due to additional competition within the programs, particularly for products with performance issues, and reduced management fees, which are typical results of providing investment models rather than
advisory services. 

        Our
sole business is asset management. As a result, we may be more affected by trends and issues affecting the asset management business, such as industry-wide regulatory
issues and inquiries, publicity about, and public perceptions of the industry and asset management industry market cycles, than other financial services companies that have more diversified
businesses. 

        
We May Engage in Strategic Transactions That Could Create Risks  

        As part of our business strategy, we regularly review, and from time to time have discussions with respect to potential strategic
transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. There can be no assurance that we will find
suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish our strategy, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired
transactions. In addition, these transactions typically involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: 



•adverse effects on our reported earnings per share in the event acquired intangible assets or goodwill become impaired;  
•existence of unknown liabilities or contingencies that arise after closing; and   
•potential disputes with counterparties. 


        Acquisitions,
including completed acquisitions, also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could under-perform relative to expectations. We could
also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. Following the completion of an acquisition, we may
have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. There can be no assurance
that the seller will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. 

        Strategic
transactions typically are announced publicly even though they may remain subject to numerous closing conditions, contingencies and approvals and there is no assurance that any
announced transaction will actually be consummated. The failure to consummate an announced transaction could have an adverse effect on us. Future transactions may also further increase our leverage
or, if we issue equity securities to pay for acquisitions, dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders. 

        
Regulatory Matters May Negatively Affect our Business and Results of Operations  

        Our business is subject to regulation by various regulatory authorities that are charged with protecting the interests of our clients.
We could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability, or sanction, including revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisers, revocation of the licenses of our employees,
censures, fines, or temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, if we violate such laws or regulations. Any such liability or sanction could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations, reputation, and 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



business
prospects. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. In particular, we have incurred
significant additional costs as a result of regulatory changes affecting U.S. mutual funds and changes to European mutual fund regulation, including the Undertakings for Collective Investments in
Transferable Securities Directives (UCITs). We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws
and regulations. For example, we note that the federal government has made, and has proposed further, significant changes to the regulatory structure of the financial services industry. We also note
that recommendations for regulatory reform in the liquidity asset management business include the imposition of banking and banking-like regulations on investment advisors, the creation of
net capital requirements for investment advisors and changes in the rules governing money market mutual fund net asset value calculations. Any of these revisions could adversely affect our liquidity
asset management business and our results of operations. Our business and results of operations can also be adversely affected by federal, state and foreign regulatory issues and proceedings. 


        Instances
of criminal activity and fraud by participants in the asset management industry, disclosures of trading and other abuses by participants in the financial services industry and
massive governmental intervention and investment in the financial markets and financial firms have led the U.S. government and regulators to consider increasing the rules and regulations governing,
and oversight of, the U.S. financial system. This activity has resulted in changes to the laws and regulations governing the asset management industry and more aggressive enforcement of the existing
laws and regulations. These revisions to the laws and regulations are an ongoing process. The cumulative effect of these actions may result in increased expenses, or lower management or other fees,
and therefore adversely affect the revenues or profitability of our business. 

        
If our Reputation is Harmed, we Could Suffer Losses in our Business, Revenues and Net Income  

        Our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients and other market participants, and the resulting
good reputation is critical to our business. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate.
Regulatory inquiries, employee misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. Any damage to our reputation
could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our
revenues and net income. 

        
Failure to Properly Address Conflicts of Interest Could Harm our Reputation, Business and Results of Operations  

        As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we must continue to address conflicts between our interests and
those of our clients. In addition, the SEC and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have procedures and controls that are reasonably designed to
address these issues. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest, we could
face reputational damage, litigation or regulatory proceedings or penalties, any of which may adversely affect our revenues or net income. 

        
Our Business Involves Risks of Being Engaged in Litigation and Liability That Could Increase our Expenses and Reduce our Net Income  

        Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. In the normal course of business, our asset managers are from time
to time named as defendants or co-defendants in lawsuits, or are involved in disputes that involve the threat of lawsuits, seeking substantial damages. We are also involved from time to
time in governmental and self-regulatory organization investigations and proceedings. Similarly, the investment funds that our asset managers manage are subject to actual and threatened
lawsuits and governmental and self-regulatory organization investigations and proceedings, any of which could harm the investment returns or reputation of the applicable fund or result in
our asset managers being liable to the funds for any resulting damages. There has been an increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the asset management industry in recent
years, including customer claims as well as class action suits seeking substantial damages. 

18






<A
NAME="page_ce14601_1_19"> 










































Table of Contents 

        
Insurance May Not Be Available on a Cost Effective Basis to Protect us From Liability  

        We face the inherent risk of liability related to litigation from clients, third-party vendors or others and actions taken by
regulatory agencies. To help protect against these potential liabilities, we purchase insurance in amounts, and against risks, that we consider appropriate, where such insurance is available at prices
we deem acceptable. There can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, that any insurer
will remain solvent and will meet its obligations to provide us with coverage or that insurance coverage will continue to be available with sufficient limits at a reasonable cost. Insurance costs are
impacted by market conditions and the risk profile of the insured, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. In addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may
only be available at prohibitive costs. Renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance
liability. 

        
Failure to Comply With Contractual Requirements or Guidelines Could Result in Liability and Loss of Assets Under Management, Both of Which Could Cause our Net Income to
Decline  

        The asset management contracts under which we manage client assets, including contracts with investment funds, often specify guidelines
or contractual requirements that we are obligated to observe in providing asset management services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation,
liability to the client or the client reducing its assets under our management, any of which could cause our revenues and net income to decline. 

        
Loss of Key Personnel Could Harm our Business  

        We are dependent on the continued services of a number of our key asset management personnel and our management team, including our
Chief Executive Officer. The loss of any of such personnel without adequate replacement could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, since certain of our asset managers contribute
significantly to our revenues and net income, the loss of even a small number of key personnel at these businesses could have a disproportionate impact on our overall business. Additionally, we need
qualified managers and skilled employees with asset management experience in order to operate our business successfully. The market for experienced asset management professionals is extremely
competitive and is increasingly characterized by the movement of employees among different firms. Due to the competitive market for asset management professionals and the success of some of our
employees, our costs to attract and retain key employees are significant and will likely increase over time. From time to time, we may work with key employees to revise revenue sharing and other
employment-related terms to reflect current circumstances. In addition, since the investment track record of many of our products and services is often attributed to a small number of individual
employees, and sometimes one person, the departure of one or more of these employees could cause the business to lose client accounts or managed assets, which could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our costs to do so increase significantly, our operations and financial results would
be materially adversely affected. 

        
The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect our Business  

        Volatility in the markets in the recent past has highlighted the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrated how the
deteriorating financial condition of one institution may materially and adversely impact the performance of other institutions. Legg Mason, and the funds and accounts that we manage, has exposure to
many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. We, and the funds and accounts we manage, may be exposed to credit or
other risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client, or in the event of other unrelated systemic failures in the markets. 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



        
Our Business is Subject to Numerous Operational Risks and Risks that we May Incur Charges Related to Leased Facilities  

        We face numerous operational risks related to our business on a day-to-day basis. Among other things, we must
be able to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process client and investor transactions and provide reports and other customer service to our clients and investors. Any
failure to keep current and accurate books and records can render us subject to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. If
any of our financial, portfolio accounting or other data processing systems, or the systems of third parties on whom we rely, do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings
or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, or those of third parties on whom we rely, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, a financial loss, a disruption of our businesses,
liability to clients, regulatory problems or damage to our reputation. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our
control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more buildings. In addition, our operations are dependent upon information from, and
communications with, third parties, and operational problems at third parties may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business. 


        Our
operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures
and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events
that have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, it potentially could jeopardize our or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and
transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. We may be required to
spend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses
that are either not insured against fully or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain. 

        We
depend on our headquarters, the offices of our subsidiaries and our operations centers for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure
that supports our asset managers, or an event disrupting the ability of our employees to perform their job functions, including terrorist attacks or a disruption involving electrical communications,
transportation or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, directly affecting our headquarters, the offices of our subsidiaries or our operations centers may have a
material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Although we have disaster recovery programs in place, there can be no assurance that these will be
sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses. 

        We
continue to be exposed to the risk of incurring charges related to subleases or vacant space for several of our leased offices. As of March 31, 2011, our future commitments
from third parties under non-cancellable subleases were approximately $149 million, which in total, net of reserves, effectively offsets obligations under our leases for the
properties. As of March 31, 2011, our total future lease commitments for office space that we have vacated and are seeking to sublease decreased to approximately $13 million, of which we
have previously reserved $7 million through lease charges to our earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, at the time a sublease is entered into or space is deemed permanently
abandoned, we must incur a charge equal to the present value of the amount by which the commitments under the lease exceeds the amount due, or amount expected to be paid, under a sublease. As a
result, in a period of declining commercial lease markets, we are exposed to the risk of incurring charges relating to any premises we are seeking to sublease resulting from longer periods to identify
sub-tenants and reduced market rent rates leading to new sub-tenants paying less in rent than we are paying under our lease. In connection with our business model streamlining
initiative, we plan to incur transition-related charges for consolidating leased office space and thus abandoning leased properties. We expect that the total transition-related charges will be within
our estimates, but no assurances can be given that our estimates will prove correct. Also, if a sub-tenant defaults on its sublease, we would likely incur a charge for the rent that we
will incur during the period that we expect would be required to sublease the premises and any reduction in rent that current market rent rates lead us to expect a new sub-tenant will pay.
This risk is 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



underscored
by the fact that one sub-tenant represents approximately 55% of the future sublease rent commitments described above. There can be no assurance that we will not recognize
additional lease-related charges, which may be material to our results of operations. 

        
Potential Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Could Increase our Expenses and Reduce our Assets  

        Determining goodwill and intangible assets, and evaluating them for impairment, requires significant management estimates and judgment,
including estimating value and assessing life in connection with the allocation of purchase price in the acquisition creating them. Our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired as a result
of any number of factors, including losses of investment management contracts or declines in the value of managed assets. Any impairment of goodwill or intangibles could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations. For example, during the year ended March 31, 2009, we
incurred aggregate impairment charges of $1.3 billion ($863 million, net of taxes) relating to goodwill and intangible assets including acquired asset management contracts and trade
names. Our $53 million in net amortizable intangible assets represent asset management contracts purchased in several transactions. These assets could become impaired if we experience client
attrition at a rate faster than projected or fees charged under the contracts are reduced. The domestic mutual fund contracts acquired in the 2005 acquisition of the Citigroup Asset Management
business ("CAM") of $2,502 million and the Permal funds-of-hedge funds contracts of $947 million account for approximately 65% and 25%, respectively, of our
indefinite-life intangible assets, while the goodwill in our Americas and International divisions aggregates $1.3 billion. Changes in the assumptions underlying projected cash flows
from the assets or reporting units, resulting from market conditions, reduced assets under management or other factors, could result in an impairment of any of these assets. As of December 31,
2010, the date of our most recent annual testing, assuming all other factors remain the same, actual results and changes in assumptions for the domestic mutual fund and Permal
fund-of-hedge funds contracts would have to cause our cash flow projections over the long-term to deviate more than 20% and 25%, respectively, from projections or
the discount rate would have to increase by about 1.8 and 2.5 percentage points, respectively, for the asset to be deemed impaired. Similarly, assuming all other factors remain the same, actual
results and changes in assumptions for the Americas and International divisions would have to cause our cash flow projections over the long-term to decrease approximately 47% and 50%,
respectively, from previous projections or the discount rates would have to increase by approximately 5.9 and 7.0 percentage points, respectively, for the goodwill to be deemed impaired. There can be
no assurances that market turmoil or asset outflows, or other factors, will not produce an impairment. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Intangible Assets and Goodwill." 

        
Deferred Tax Assets May Not Be Fully Realizable  

        As of March 31, 2011, we had approximately $683 million in U.S. federal deferred tax assets, which represent tax benefits
that we expect to realize in future periods. Under accounting rules, we are required to recognize a charge to earnings to reduce our deferred tax assets if it is determined that any future tax
benefits are not likely to be realized before they expire. Deferred tax assets generated in U.S. jurisdictions resulting from net operating losses generally expire 20 years after they are
generated. Those resulting from foreign tax credits generally expire 10 years after they are generated. In order to realize these future tax benefits, we estimate that we must generate
approximately $4.6 billion in future U.S. earnings, approximately $129 million of which must be in the form of foreign source income, before the benefits expire. There can be no
assurances that we will achieve this level of earnings before some portion of these tax benefits expires. In addition, our belief that we will likely be able to realize these future tax benefits is
based in part upon our estimates of the timing of other differences in revenue and expense recognition between tax returns and financial statements and our understanding of the application of tax
regulations, which may prove to be incorrect for any number of reasons, including future changes in tax or accounting regulations. If we are required to recognize a charge to earnings to reduce our
deferred tax assets, the charge may be material to our earnings or financial condition. 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



        
Performance-Based Fee Arrangements May Increase the Volatility of our Revenues  

        A portion of our investment advisory and related fee revenues is derived from performance fees. Our asset managers earn performance
fees under certain client agreements if the investment performance in the portfolio meets or exceeds a specified benchmark. If the investment performance does not meet or exceed the investment return
benchmark for a particular period, the asset manager will not generate a performance fee for that period and, if the benchmark is based on cumulative returns, the asset manager's ability to earn
performance fees in future periods may be impaired. We earned $96.7 million, $71.5 million and $17.4 million in performance fees during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Performance fees may become more common in our industry. An increase in performance fees, or in performance-based fee arrangements with our clients, could create greater fluctuations in our revenues. 

        
We Are Exposed to a Number of Risks Arising From our International Operations  

        Our asset managers operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United States on behalf of international clients. We have
offices in numerous countries and many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the United States. Our international operations require us to comply with the legal
requirements of various foreign jurisdictions, expose us to the political consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential
adverse tax consequences which, among other things, make it more difficult to repatriate to the United States the cash that we generate outside the U.S. Our foreign business operations are also
subject to the following risks: 



•difficulty in managing, operating and marketing our international operations;   
•fluctuations in currency exchange rates which may result in substantial negative effects on assets under management and
revenues in our U.S. dollar based financial statements; and   
•significant adverse changes in foreign legal and regulatory environments. 


        
We Rely on Third Parties to Distribute Mutual Funds and Certain Other Products  

        Our ability to market and distribute mutual funds and certain other investment products that we manage is significantly dependent on
access to third-party financial intermediaries that distribute these products. These distributors are generally not contractually required to distribute our products, and typically offer their clients
various investment products and services, including proprietary products and services, in addition to and in competition with our products and services. Relying on third-party distributors also
exposes us to the risk of increasing costs of distribution, as we compensate them for selling our products and services in amounts that are agreed between them and us but which, in many cases, are
largely determined by the distributor. Many of the funds we manage were historically primarily distributed through Citigroup's retail brokerage business. While we have strived to diversify our
distributors, the retail business created by the merger of Morgan Stanley's brokerage and Citigroup's Smith Barney brokerage remains our primary fund distributor. While the third-party distributors
are compensated for distributing our products and services, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in distributing our products and services through them. In addition, mergers and other
corporate transactions among distributors may affect our distribution relationships. For example, we are not able to predict the long-term effect of the merger of the Smith Barney and
Morgan Stanley businesses on our ability to continue to successfully distribute our funds and other products through them, or the costs of doing so. During the quarter ended June 30, 2011,
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney amended certain historic Smith Barney brokerage programs providing for investment in liquidity funds that our asset managers manage, which resulted in a $16 billion
reduction in our liquidity assets under management. In addition, we expect further amendments to result in an additional $7 billion in liquidity assets under management being transferred over
the next 15 months. We are also in negotiations with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney over whether an additional $20 billion in liquidity assets under management that are distributed through
the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney business will remain with our managers. If we are unable to distribute our products and services successfully, it will adversely affect our revenues and net income, and
any increase in distribution-related expenses could adversely affect our net income. 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg14601a_main_toc">Table of Contents



        
Our Funds-of-Hedge Funds Business Entails a Number of Risks  

        Permal operates in the international funds-of-hedge funds business. The funds-of-hedge
funds business typically involves clients being charged fees on two levels — at the funds-of-funds level and at the underlying funds level. These fees may
include management fees and performance fees. There is no assurance that Permal will not be forced to change its fee structures by competitive or other pressures or that Permal's fee structures will
not hamper its growth. In addition, Permal may generate significant performance fees from time to time, which could increase the volatility of our revenues. See " —
Performance-Based Fee Arrangements May Increase the Volatility of our Revenues." Because Permal operates in the funds-of-hedge funds business globally, it is exposed to a
number of regulatory authorities and requirements in different jurisdictions.  

<A
NAME="ce14601_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments."> 
    ITEM 1B