ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

 

You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities.  If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.

 

Risks related to the regulation of our business could impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability - We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities, which significantly influences our operating environment and the ability to
timely recover costs from customers.  In particular, our utilities are regulated by regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over public utilities, including the IUB, the PSCW, the ICC, the MPUC and FERC.  These authorities regulate many aspects of our operations, including, but not limited to: construction and maintenance of facilities; operations; safety; issuance of securities; accounting matters; transactions between affiliates; rates charged to customers; our ability to site and construct new generation plants; costs of fuel, purchased power and natural gas that can be recovered from customers; and
the authorized rates of return on capital.  The ability of our utilities to obtain rate adjustments 

 



14


to maintain current rates of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot assure that rate adjustments will be obtained or current authorized rates of return on capital will be earned.  These regulatory authorities are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on us and our utilities if found to have violated statutes and regulations governing utility operations.  Currently, IPL and WPL have certain pending rate cases.  If IPL and WPL do not receive the expected amount of rate relief, rates are reduced, the increased rates are not approved on a timely basis or costs are otherwise unable to be recovered through rates, we may experience an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We, through our international subsidiaries, are also subject to international rate regulation in the foreign markets in
which we operate.

 

We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any of these agencies.  Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional expenses or change business operations or our business plan, particularly as it relates to our utilities, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, federal regulatory reforms mandated by the Energy Policy Act of 2005 may produce unexpected changes and costs in the public utility industry that could cause us to incur additional expenses or change business operations, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Changes in commodity prices may increase the cost of producing electric energy or decrease the amount our subsidiaries receive from selling electric energy, harming our financial performance - The prices that we may obtain for electric energy may not compensate for changes in coal, natural gas or energy spot-market costs, or changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of electric energy, and so our utilities may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to their customers, which may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.  We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because the majority of the electricity generated by us is from our coal-fired generating facilities.  We, through our utilities, have contracts of varying durations for the supply
and transportation of coal for most of our existing generating capability, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts.  Further, we rely on coal primarily from the Power River Basin in Wyoming and any disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region may cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition.  Our utilities also have responsibility to supply gas to natural gas-fired electric generating facilities that we own and lease, which increase our exposure to the more volatile market prices of natural gas.  We, through our utilities, have natural gas supply contracts in place which are generally short term in duration.  The gas supply commitments are either fixed price in nature or market-based.  As some of the contracts are market-based, and all of the contracts are short-term, we may not be
able to purchase gas on terms as favorable as the current contracts when the current contracts expire.  Further, natural gas supplies originate primarily in the Gulf of Mexico region of the U.S. and any disruption of production of natural gas in that region, and transportation of natural gas from that region, may cause us to incur additional costs to purchase natural gas that may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

We are engaged in sales of assets and businesses; however, market conditions and other factors may hinder this strategy - We are in the process of selling, and may continue to sell, non-core assets.  Sales prices for assets and businesses could fluctuate.  Asset sales under poor market conditions could result in substantial losses.  Buyers may find it difficult to obtain financing to purchase these assets.  As part of any asset sale, we face challenges associated with pricing the assets correctly and limiting our environmental or other retained liabilities.  These transactions also may divert management attention and other resources from day-to-day operations.  Several factors specific to us could make asset sales particularly challenging.  We are subject to regulatory approvals for the sale of certain assets, as are potential purchasers.  These approvals can impose delays and
structuring complications on asset sale transactions.  Potential buyers may be reluctant to enter into agreements to purchase assets from us if they believe that required consents and approvals will result in significant delays or uncertainties in the transaction process.  Some of the assets we are selling are international assets, located in China and Mexico, and are subject to international regulatory approvals.  Further, the value of our international assets may fluctuate due to political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the impact of government regulations and taxation, differences in business practices and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates in countries where those assets or buyers are located and we may not be able to realize the full value of our international assets.

 

Costs of compliance with new laws and the incurrence of liabilities, particularly related to the environment, could adversely affect our profitability - Our operations are subject to extensive regulation including environmental protection.  New laws and regulations affecting our operations have been and may be adopted, including the Clean Air Mercury Rule and the Clean Air Interstate Rule, each as adopted by the EPA, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our facilities, which may substantially increase compliance expenditures made by us in the future.  We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites previously associated with the production of gas for 

 


15

which we may be liable for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs relating to the sites.  Compliance with current and future federal and state environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations.  We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, the uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties, the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations, and the uncertainty regarding the type of compliance that will be required by final
rules and regulations.  Future changes in the interpretation of the Clean Air Act’s New Source Review provisions could potentially increase our operating and maintenance costs substantially.

 

Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance.  Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with cooling.  In addition, market prices for electricity peak in the summer.  Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon weather patterns in winter months due to heavy use for residential and commercial heating.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, our utilities have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer.  We expect that unusually mild winters and summers could have an adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

At times, demand for electric energy could exceed our supply capacity - We are currently obligated to supply electric energy in parts of Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Illinois.  From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability and energy commitments pursuant to long-term purchase power agreements.  If this occurs, we would have to buy electric energy on the market.  Our utilities may not always have the ability to pass the costs of purchasing the electric energy on to their customers, and even if they are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered.  Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for electric
energy at the time we purchase it could be very high.  Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could diminish our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers could adversely affect our operating results - Our utilities are obligated to provide safe and reliable service to their customers within their service territories.  Meeting this commitment requires significant capital and other resources.  Failure to provide safe and reliable service, including effects of equipment failures in electric and gas delivery systems, could adversely affect our operating results through reduced revenues and increased maintenance and capital costs.  The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our delivery systems.  Power outages in our service territories could result from factors outside of our control or service territories.

 

The transmission system in our utilities’ service area is constrained, which could impact our ability to provide reliable service to our utility customers and increase the cost of purchased power - The transmission system in our utilities’ service territories, especially in Wisconsin, is constrained, limiting our ability to transmit electric energy within our service territories and access electric energy from outside of our service territories.  The transmission constraints could result in failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers or not being able to access lower cost sources of electric energy.

 

Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism or natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities.  Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets.  The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit electric energy, the risk of significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, disruption or volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance.  Catastrophic natural disasters may also impact our operations.  Natural disasters may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or transmit electric
energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories.

 



16


The operation of electric generating stations or the construction or capital improvement of utility facilities may involve unanticipated changes or delays in operations that could negatively impact our business, and our financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows - The operation of electric generating stations involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency.  These risks could negatively impact our business through asset degradation, lost revenues or increased costs, including the cost of replacement power.  Additionally, our ability to successfully and timely complete construction of utility facilities or planned
capital improvements to existing facilities within established budgets is contingent upon many variables and may be subject to substantial risks.  Should such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and increased risk of non-recovery of construction or improvement costs through rates.

 

A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect borrowing costs and access to capital to operate our business - Our credit ratings may be dependent on, among other things, the success of execution of our strategic plan.  If our business changes as a result of market or other conditions, our ratings could be adversely affected.  The failure to meet the goals set forth in our strategic plan from time to time could cause our credit ratings to be lowered.  If either Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services or Moody’s Investors Service were to downgrade our credit ratings, then borrowing costs would increase, which would diminish our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.  In addition, some of our subsidiaries access debt and other capital from various sources and carry their own
credit ratings.  Any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of these subsidiaries could make their own costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could increase our need to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus reducing the liquidity and borrowing availability of the consolidated group.  We, and particularly our utility business, rely on accessing the capital markets to support capital expenditure programs and other capital requirements, including expenditures to build utility infrastructure and comply with future regulatory requirements.  If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing market or industry conditions, regulatory constraints or other factors, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly adversely affected.

 

We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own.  Accordingly, the primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries and investments.  Our subsidiaries and investments are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans or other payments.  The ability of our subsidiaries and investments to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations and the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and investments.  Our utilities each have dividend payment restrictions based on their respective
bond indentures, the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them.  If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries and investments, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock.

 

We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses and financial condition - We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Energy industry changes, including changes in technology, could have a negative effect on our businesses - As a public utility holding company with significant utility assets, we conduct our utility operations in an ever-changing business environment.  Competitive pressures, including advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in our utilities losing market share and customers and incurring stranded costs (i.e., assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable through customer rates as a result of competitive pricing), which would be borne by our shareowners.  Although the pace of restructuring in our primary retail electric service territories has been delayed (and may continue to be delayed for a long period of time) due to uncertainty and
developments in the industry, we cannot predict the timing of a restructured electric industry or the impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

 

ITEM 1B