ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

 

You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities.  If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.

 

Risks related to the regulation of our business could impact the rates we are able to charge, our costs and our profitability - We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory authorities, which significantly influences our operating environment and the ability to timely recover costs from customers.  In particular, our utility operations are regulated by regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over public utilities, including the IUB, the PSCW, the MPUC and FERC.  These authorities regulate many aspects of our operations, including, but not limited to: rates charged to customers; costs of fuel, purchased power and natural gas that can be recovered from customers; the authorized rates of return on capital; our ability to site and construct new generating facilities; construction and maintenance of facilities; operations; safety; issuance of securities;
accounting matters; and transactions between affiliates.  Further, provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock.  Our ability to obtain rate adjustments to maintain current rates of return depends upon regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and we cannot assure that rate adjustments will be obtained or current authorized rates of return on capital will be earned.  These regulatory authorities are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions on us if we are found to have violated statutes and regulations governing utility operations.  IPL and WPL from time to time file rate cases with federal and state regulatory authorities.  In future rate cases, if IPL and WPL do not receive an adequate amount of rate relief, rates are reduced, increased
rates are not approved on a timely basis or costs are otherwise unable to be recovered through rates, we may experience an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from future regulatory activities of any of these agencies.  Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require us to incur additional expenses or change business operations or our business plan, which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



15 



Changes in commodity prices or the availability of commodities may increase the cost of producing electric energy or decrease the amount we receive from selling electric energy, harming our financial performance - The prices that we may obtain for electric energy may not compensate for changes in coal, natural gas or energy spot-market costs, or changes in the relationship between such costs and the market prices of electric energy.  As a result, we may be unable to pass on the changes in costs to our customers, which may result in an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We are heavily exposed to changes in the price and availability of coal because the majority of the electricity generated by us is from our coal-fired generating facilities.  We have contracts of varying durations for the
supply and transportation of coal for most of our existing generating capability, but as these contracts end or otherwise are not honored, we may not be able to purchase coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts.  Further, we rely on coal primarily from the Power River Basin in Wyoming and any disruption of coal production in, or transportation from, that region may cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We also have responsibility to supply natural gas to certain natural gas-fired electric generating facilities that we own and lease, which increase our exposure to the more volatile market prices of natural gas.  We have natural gas supply contracts in place which are generally short term in duration.  The natural gas supply commitments are either fixed price in nature or market-based.  As some of the contracts are market-based, and all of the
contracts are short-term, we may not be able to purchase natural gas on terms as favorable as the current contracts when the current contracts expire.  Further, any disruption of production or transportation of natural gas may cause us to incur additional costs to purchase natural gas that may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  The derivative instruments we use to manage our commodity risks have terms allowing our counterparties to demand cash collateral.  Extensive cash collateral demands could adversely impact our cash flows.

 

We may incur additional costs or experience delays in generating facility construction and may not be able to recover our investment - Large construction projects are subject to risks over which we have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs or completion time.  These risks include shortages of, the inability to obtain, the cost of and the consistency of labor, materials and equipment, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, work stoppages, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner, changes in applicable laws or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, governmental actions, legal action, and unforeseen engineering problems.  If the construction of a generating facility is over budget, we may not be able to recover those
excess costs.  Inability to recover excess costs, or inability to complete construction in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Costs of compliance with new laws and the incurrence of liabilities, particularly related to the environment, could adversely affect our profitability - Our operations are subject to extensive regulation including environmental protection laws and regulations relating to, among other things, water discharges, management of hazardous and solid waste, and air emissions such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, small particulates and mercury.  New laws and regulations affecting our operations have been adopted by the EPA, including the Clean Air Mercury Rule and the Clean Air Interstate Rule, and possible new regulations from federal and state authorities may be adopted, requiring modifications to our utility operations.  As an example, new regulations on carbon dioxide emissions may be adopted.  New interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to
us or our facilities.  These new regulations, possible new regulations and possible new interpretations may substantially increase compliance expenditures made by us or restrict our operations in the future.  We also have current or previous ownership interests in sites associated with the production of gas and the production and delivery of electricity for which we may be liable for additional costs related to investigation, remediation and monitoring of these sites.  Citizen groups or others may bring litigation over environmental issues including claims of various types, such as property damage, personal injury, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and other air quality standards which could subject us to penalties, injunctive relief and the cost of litigation.  We cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures (including the potential or magnitude of fines or penalties) related to environmental matters because of
the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, the uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liabilities on all potentially responsible parties, the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations, the possible inability to obtain necessary materials or skilled labor force required for certain equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, and the uncertainty regarding the type of compliance that will be required by final rules and regulations.  Compliance with current and future federal and state environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



16 


Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Our electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on their operating performance.  Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with air conditioning requirements.  In addition, market prices for electricity peak in the summer.  Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon weather patterns in winter months due to heavy use for residential and commercial heating.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition we have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer.  We expect that unusually mild winters and summers could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers could adversely affect our operating results - We are currently obligated to supply electric energy in parts of Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota.  From time to time and because of unforeseen circumstances, the demand for electric energy required to meet these obligations could exceed our available electric generating capability and energy commitments pursuant to long-term purchased power agreements.  The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our delivery systems.  Power outages in our service territories could result from factors outside of our control or service territories.  If this occurs, we would have to buy electric energy in the market.  Our utilities may not always have the
ability to pass all the costs of purchasing the electric energy on to their customers, and even if they are able to do so, there may be a significant delay between the time the costs are incurred and the time the costs are recovered.  Since these situations most often occur during periods of peak demand, it is possible that the market price for electric energy at the time we purchase it could be very high.  Even if a supply shortage was brief, we could suffer substantial losses that could diminish our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  The transmission system in our utilities’ service territories, especially in Wisconsin, is constrained, limiting our ability to transmit electric energy within our service territories and access electric energy from outside of our service territories.  The transmission constraints could result in failure to provide reliable service to our utility customers or not being able to access lower cost sources of electric energy.
Failure to provide safe and reliable service, including effects of equipment failures in electric and natural gas delivery systems or market demand for energy exceeding available supply, may result in reduced revenues and increased maintenance and capital costs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism or natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities.  Generation and transmission facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets.  The effects of terrorist threats and activities include, among other things, terrorist actions or responses to such actions or threats, the inability to generate, purchase or transmit electric energy, the risk of significant slowdown in growth or a decline in the U.S. economy, disruption or volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and the increased cost and adequacy of security and insurance.  Catastrophic natural disasters may also impact our operations.  Terrorists threats and activities and natural disasters may adversely impact our ability to
generate, purchase or transmit electric energy or obtain fuel sources and may significantly slow growth, or cause a decline, in the economy within our service territories, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Operation of electric generating facilities or construction or capital improvement of utility facilities may involve unanticipated changes or delays in operations that could negatively impact our business - The operation of electric generating facilities involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, transmission lines or pipelines, use of technology, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, as well as the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency.  These risks could negatively impact our business through asset degradation, lost revenues or increased costs, including the cost of replacement power.  Additionally, our ability to successfully and timely complete construction of utility facilities or planned capital improvements to existing facilities within
established budgets is contingent upon many variables and may be subject to substantial risks.  Should such efforts be unsuccessful, we could be subject to additional costs and increased risk of non-recovery of construction or improvement costs through rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



17 


We are exposed to risks related to economic conditions - Our utility operations are impacted by the economic conditions in our service territories.  If economic conditions decline in our service territories, we may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas which could result in decreased earnings and cash flows.  In addition, adverse economic conditions in our service territories could negatively impact our collections of accounts receivable.
Any national economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could reduce our access to capital necessary for our operations and executing our
strategic plan.  A decline in economic conditions in our service territories or nationally could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own.  Accordingly, the primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans or other payments.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations and the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries.  Our utilities each have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations
applicable to them.  In addition, IPL has dividend payment restrictions based on its bond indentures.  If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock.

 

We are engaged in sales of assets and businesses; however, market conditions and other factors may hinder this strategy - We are in the process of selling, and may continue to sell, non-core assets.  Sales prices for assets and businesses could fluctuate.  Asset sales under poor market conditions could result in substantial losses.  Buyers may find it difficult to obtain financing to purchase these assets.  As part of any asset sale, we face challenges associated with pricing the assets correctly and limiting our environmental or other retained liabilities.  These transactions also may divert management attention and other resources from day-to-day operations.  Several factors specific to us could make asset sales particularly challenging.  We are subject to regulatory approvals for the sale of certain assets, as are potential purchasers.  These approvals can impose delays and
structuring complications on asset sale transactions.  Potential buyers may be reluctant to enter into agreements to purchase assets from us if they believe that required consents and approvals will result in significant delays or uncertainties in the transaction process.

 

We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses - We are subject to employee workforce factors, including loss or retirement of key personnel, availability of qualified personnel, collective bargaining agreements with employees and work stoppage that could affect our businesses and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Inability to access financial markets - We rely on accessing the capital markets to support capital expenditure programs and other capital requirements, including expenditures to build utility infrastructure and comply with future regulatory requirements.  Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon the ability of us to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates.  If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing market or industry conditions, regulatory constraints or other factors, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly adversely affected.

 

Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses - As a public utility company with significant utility assets, we conduct our utility operations in an ever-changing business environment.  The advent of new markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  The new MISO wholesale energy market has the potential to significantly increase costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the market and costs stemming from estimated payment settlements.  Competitive pressures, including advances in technology that reduce the costs of alternative methods of producing electric energy to a level that is competitive with that of current electric production methods, could result in our utilities losing market share and customers and incurring stranded
costs (i.e., assets and other costs rendered unrecoverable through customer rates as a result of competitive pricing), which would be borne by our shareowners.  Although the pace of restructuring in our primary retail electric service territories has been delayed (and may continue to be delayed for a long period of time) due to uncertainty and developments in the industry, we cannot predict the timing of a restructured electric industry or the impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

ITEM 1B