Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




Products and Services




Our Products




Product Selection

To meet customers’ varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products for maintenance, repair, remodeling, home decorating and property maintenance.  We offer home improvement products in the following categories: appliances, lumber, paint, millwork, building materials, lawn & landscape products, flooring, rough plumbing, seasonal living, tools, hardware, fashion plumbing, lighting, nursery, outdoor power equipment, cabinets & countertops, home organization, rough electrical and home fashion.  A typical Lowe's store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special Order Sales system and Lowes.com.  Our Special Order Sales product offerings provide customers the opportunity to select a wider assortment of product options beyond the items we carry in our stores through electronic product catalogs and Lowes.com.  See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years.




We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, as well as building long-term value for Lowe’s through the development of private brands.




National Brand Name Merchandise

In many product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill confidence in their purchase.  Each Lowe’s store carries a wide selection of national brand name merchandise such as Whirlpool® appliances and water heaters, Stainmaster® carpets, Valspar® paints and stains, Pella® windows and doors, Dewalt® power tools, Owens Corning® roofing, Johns Manville® insulation, James Hardie® fiber cement siding and many more.  Our merchandise selection provides the DIY, DIFM and Commercial Business Customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects.




Private Brands

Private brands exclusive to Lowe’s are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to differentiate us from the competition with unique innovations and designs.  Private brands also provide a value alternative to national brands and, in categories where there are no strong national brands, can be used to give the customer a more simplified shopping experience.  We sell private brands throughout our stores including tools, seasonal living, home fashion, home organization, paint, fashion plumbing, flooring, millwork, hardware, lighting and lumber.  Some of Lowe’s most important private brands include Kobalt® tools, allen+roth® home décor products, Portfolio® lighting products, Garden Treasures® lawn and patio products, Utilitech® electrical and utility products, Reliabilt® doors and windows, Aquasource® faucets and sinks, Harbor Breeze® ceiling fans and Top Choice® lumber products.




Supply Chain

We source our products from over 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide with no single vendor accounting for more than 8% of total purchases.  We believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products.  Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin.

 

 



  



6







  



 

 

To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate 14 highly-automated regional distribution centers (RDCs) in the United States.  On average, each domestic RDC serves approximately 120 stores.  In addition, we lease and operate a distribution facility to serve our Canadian stores.  We also operate 15 flatbed distribution centers to distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl sidings, ladders and building materials.  Additionally, we operate three facilities to support our import business, Special Order Sales and internet fulfillment. We also utilize three third-party transload facilities, which do not warehouse inventory, but are the first point of receipt for imported products.  The transload facilities sort and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and forecasts.




On average in fiscal 2010, over 75% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to stores from our vendors.




Our Service Offerings




Installed Sales

We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with flooring, millwork and cabinets & countertops accounting for the majority of sales.  Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to maintain their focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products sold are efficiently executed.  Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 6% of total sales in fiscal 2010.




Extended Protection and Repair Services

We offer extended protection plans on many of our products in key categories such as appliances, tools and outdoor power equipment.  These plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends the original manufacturer’s warranty.  Additionally, we offer repair services for all major appliances that we sell and our in-house call center schedules the visits for these products, whether or not covered by an original manufacturer’s warranty or by an extended protection plan.




Credit Financing

We offer a proprietary credit card for retail customers under an agreement with GE Money Bank.  In addition, we offer a Lowe’s Project Card to provide in-store major project financing solutions, as well as a co-branded Lowe’s Visa® card.




We also offer proprietary credit programs for Commercial Business Customers.  They include a Lowe’s Business Account, which is ideal for small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe’s Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that pay in full each month.  We also offer the Lowe’s Business Rewards Card from American Express®.




For additional information regarding our credit programs, see the summary of our significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




Selling Channels




We have multiple channels through which we engage customers and sell our products and service offerings, including our stores, Lowes.com, and job site/in-home selling. Although we sell through all of these channels, our primary channel to fulfill customer orders continues to be our retail home improvement stores.




Stores

Our 1,749 retail home improvement stores are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 113,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling pace.  Our stores offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on local market factors.  We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and integrate our order management and fulfillment processes with our other distribution channels.

 

 



  



7







  



 

 

Lowes.com

Through Lowes.com, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and helping reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and information.  These tools help consumers make smarter, more informed purchasing decisions and give them confidence as they undertake simple to more complex home improvement projects.  We also enable customers to choose from a variety of multichannel fulfillment options, including buy online and pick-up in-store as well as direct shipment to their homes.  As our business evolves, we continue to look for opportunities beyond fulfillment to leverage emerging technologies and online trends to build strong relationships with consumers that will make us the first choice for their home improvement needs.  Lowes.com sales accounted for less than 1% of our total sales in fiscal 2010.




Job site/In-home selling

We have on-site specialists available to consumers and Commercial Business Customers to assist them in selecting products and services to purchase for a project.  For Commercial Business Customers, the District Commercial Account Specialist (DCAS) meets with Commercial Business Customers in their place of business or on a job site and leverages stores within the district to ensure we can meet customer needs for products and resources.  Our Project Specialist Exteriors (PSE) program is available in over 1,300 Lowe’s stores to discuss projects such as roofing, siding, fencing and windows, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach.  The PSEs take the measurements and complete Installed Sales transactions in the customer's home.




Employees

 

As of January 28, 2011, we employed approximately 161,000 full-time and 73,000 part-time employees, none of which in the U.S. or Canada is covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Employees in Mexico are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Management considers its relations with its employees to be good.




Seasonality and Working Capital




The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal.  Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December and January).  Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes.  We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed.  For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7,  “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




Intellectual Property




The name “Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary has various additional registered trademarks, trade names and service marks, most of which are used in our private brand program.

 

 



  



8







  



 

 

Environmental Leadership




We continue to build on a history of environmental leadership by helping consumers reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving money through a growing number of product and service solutions.  We offer a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products for the home, from ENERGY STAR® appliances to paint with no volatile organic compounds (VOC).   Some highlights of our 

environmental leadership include:

 





·  


The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency awarded us two consecutive ENERGY STAR® Sustained Excellence Awards in Retail (2010-2011), which recognizes our long-standing leadership as a retailer of energy-efficient products, as well as nine consecutive ENERGY STAR® awards (2003-2011), including four ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year awards for educating consumers about the benefits of energy efficiency.




 





·  


We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. 




 





·  


We provide in-store customer recycling for plastic bags, CFLs and rechargeable batteries.




 





·  


We were recognized as a Top 10 retailer participating in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Green Power Partnership program. 




 

In addition to operating our stores as efficiently as possible by reducing our energy and water usage, we are striving to get products to our stores in an environmentally responsible manner.  Our conservation strategies and continued contributions to the transportation industry have been honored by multiple SmartWay Environmental Excellence Awards, an innovative program launched by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 2004 that represents environmentally cleaner, more fuel efficient transportation options. To earn those awards, we implemented initiatives that resulted in reduced carbon dioxide emissions and less overall highway congestion. These included increasing shipping by rail, increasing efficiency of truckload shipments, allowing more products to be shipped on fewer trailers, and continuing to use a higher percentage of SmartWay carriers.




Compliance with Environmental Matters




Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.  They have in the past and may in the future increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through increased energy costs as producers of energy and petroleum, and potentially other major emitters of greenhouse gases, are subjected to increased or new regulation or legislation that results in greater regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.  We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2011 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or regulations.

 

Reaching Out




Lowe’s has a long and proud history of supporting local communities through public education and community improvement projects. In 2010, Lowe's and Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) contributed more than $30 million to schools and community organizations in the United States, Canada and Mexico. LCEF was created in 1957 to assist communities through financial contributions while also encouraging employees to become involved through volunteerism.  In 2010, LCEF supported more than 3,100 community and education projects.  LCEF funds our signature education grant program, Lowe’s Toolbox for Education®, and national partnerships. Lowe’s Toolbox for Education grants totaling nearly $25 million have benefited approximately 3 million schoolchildren since 2006. Lowe’s has worked with Habitat for Humanity® since 2003 to combat substandard housing. Our commitment through 2013 will bring Lowe's Habitat contributions to nearly $40 million since the partnership began. We also partner with customers to support the American Red Cross, contributing more than $20 million since 1999.  Lowe’s encourages employee volunteerism through the Lowe’s Heroes program, a companywide initiative. Lowe's Heroes participated in more than 1,300 projects across North America in 2010. For more information on our community involvement, please see the Lowe’s Social Responsibility Report at Lowes.com/socialresponsibility.

 

 



  



9







  





Index

  

Available Information



 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange 

Commission (SEC).  The public may also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.





Item 1A – Risk Factors




We have developed a risk management process using periodic surveys, external research, risk mapping, analytics and other tools to identify and evaluate the operational, financial, environmental, reputational, strategic and other risks that could adversely affect our business.  For more information about our risk management process, which is administered by our Chief Risk Officer and includes developing risk mitigation controls and procedures for the material risks we identify, see the description included in the proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareholders under “The Board’s Role in Risk Oversight.”




We describe below all known material risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or business prospects.  These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in our future periodic reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and reports on other forms we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  All forward-looking statements about our future results of operations or other matters made by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Lowe’s Shareholders and in our subsequently filed reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public communications, are qualified by the risks described below.




Our sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy.

General economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect the U.S. economy, the global economy and our financial performance.  These include, but are not limited to, periods of slow economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of borrowing to Lowe’s and its customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, sustained high rates of unemployment, unsupportable consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and developments in the war against terrorism in Asia, the Middle East and other parts of the world.




Adverse changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable store sales.

Sales of many of our product categories and services are driven by the activity level of home improvement projects.  Steep declines over the last four years in home prices, the increasing number of households with little or negative equity, high mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, the reduction in the availability of mortgage financing, slower household formation growth rates, and lower housing turnover through existing home sales, which is a major driver of our business, have limited, and may continue to limit, consumers’ discretionary spending, particularly on larger home improvement projects that are important to our business.   The large number of borrowers who remain at risk of potentially losing their homes through foreclosures or short sales, coupled with the voluntary and involuntary halts of foreclosure proceedings by lenders due to legal challenges to the adequacy of their documentation and record keeping, could prolong the downturn in the housing and home improvement markets and negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and our comparable store sales.

 

 



  



10







  



 

 

Changes in existing or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our business.

Laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels change frequently and can impose significant costs and other burdens of compliance on our business and our vendors.  Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation that affects employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax or environmental issues, could have an adverse impact, directly or indirectly, on our financial condition and results of operations.




We have many competitors, who could take sales and market share from us if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing and distribution strategies effectively.

We operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect competitors.  The competitive environment in which we operate is particularly challenging during periods of slow economic growth and high unemployment with heavy promotions, particularly of discretionary items. The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores, customer service, quality and price of merchandise and services, in-stock levels, and merchandise assortment and presentation.  Our failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the markets for home improvement products and services could affect our financial performance.  Moreover, changes in the promotional pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our expected results.




If our employees or third-party installers and repair technicians are unable to accept and embrace changes in our business model, we may not be able to realize the full benefits of our strategic initiatives.

We are adapting our business model to meet our customers’ changing expectations that we will not only sell them the products they need and want, but also deliver a full service experience by being a part of their home improvement projects from start to finish.  Our goal is to simplify the complex process of home improvement, provide better project execution than our competitors and generally make the process of doing a small or large home improvement project as seamless as possible.  Reaching that goal on a continual basis requires that we deliver a consistent look and feel as our customers interact with Lowe’s through our stores, our web site, our contact center, our project specialists who meet with them in their homes, our third-party installers and repair technicians, and our in-home delivery of products they purchase online or in our stores. This will require new competencies in some positions, and our employees, third-party installers, and repair technicians will not only have to understand non-traditional selling platforms but also commit to changing how they have traditionally interacted with our customers.  To the extent they are unable or unwilling to embrace and accept these changes in our business model, our strategic initiatives designed to increase our sales and capture a greater percentage of our customers’ expenditures on home improvement projects may not be as successful as we expect them to be.




Our inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products could negatively impact our ability to differentiate ourselves from competitors.

Part of our expansion strategy includes continued differentiation from competitors.  To better distinguish our product offering, we form strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products under a variety of recognized and respected national brand names.  The inability to effectively and efficiently manage and maintain the relationships with these suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial results.




Expanding internationally presents unique challenges that will require us to adapt our store operations, merchandising, marketing and distribution functions to serve customers in Canada and Mexico and to work effectively with our joint venture partner in Australia.

About one-third of our anticipated store growth over the next five years will be in Canada and Mexico.  We are also in a joint venture with Australia’s largest retailer, Woolworths Limited, to develop a network of home improvement stores for consumers in Australia.  Expanding internationally presents unique challenges that may increase the anticipated costs and risks, and slow the anticipated rate of such expansion.

 

 



  



11







  



 

 

If we are unable to secure or develop and implement sufficiently robust new technologies to deliver business process solutions within the appropriate time frame, cost and functionality, our strategic business initiatives that are dependent upon these technologies may not be successful.

The success of our strategic business initiatives designed to increase our sales and capture a greater percentage of our customers’ expenditures on home improvement projects is dependent in varying degrees on the timely delivery and the functionality of information technology systems to support them. The users and the developers of these technology systems share the responsibility for their timely and cost-effective delivery as well as their functionality, requiring them to collaborate and cooperate closely with one another.  Extended delays or cost overruns in securing, developing and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support the new business initiatives we are developing now, and will be developing in the future, would delay and possibly even prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of those initiatives.




Our financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted.

An important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and sales and cash flow growth is the maintenance and ongoing improvements of our existing management information systems that support operations such as inventory replenishment, merchandise ordering, transportation, receipt processing and product delivery.  Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are unable to maintain, improve, upgrade, and expand our systems.




As customer-facing technology systems become an increasingly important part of our multi-channel sales and marketing strategy, the failure of those systems to perform effectively and reliably could keep us from delivering positive customer experiences.

Access to the internet from computers, smart phones and other mobile communication devices has empowered our customers and changed the way they shop and how we interact with them.  Our website, Lowes.com is a sales channel for our products, and is also a method of making product, project and other relevant information available to them that influences a large portion of our in-store sales.  In addition to Lowes.com, we have multiple affiliated websites through which we seek to inspire, inform, cross-sell, establish online communities among and otherwise interact with our customers.  Performance issues with these customer-facing technology systems or a complete failure of one or more of them without a disaster recovery plan that can be quickly implemented could quickly destroy the positive benefits they provide to our home improvement business and negatively affect our customers’ perceptions of Lowe’s as a reliable source of information about home improvement products and services.




Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected by the failure to protect sensitive customer, employee or vendor data or to comply with evolving regulations relating to our obligation to protect such data.

While we have invested heavily in the protection of our information technology and maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over individually identifiable customer, employee and vendor data provided to us, a breakdown or a breach in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of individually identifiable customer or other sensitive data could nonetheless occur and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition.  Such a breakdown or breach could also materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such risks.  Also, the regulatory environment relating to our obligation to protect such sensitive data is becoming stricter.  A material failure on our part to comply with these evolving regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory sanctions and potentially to lawsuits.




If we fail to hire, train, manage and retain qualified sales associates and specialists, or contract with qualified installers and repair technicians, with expanded skill sets who can work effectively and collaboratively in an increasingly culturally diverse environment, we could lose sales to our competitors.

Our customers, whether they are homeowners or commercial businesses, expect our sales associates and specialists to be well trained and knowledgeable about the products we sell and the home improvement services we provide.  Our customers also expect the independent contractors who install products they purchase from us to perform the installation in a timely and capable manner.  Increasingly, our sales associates and specialists must have expanded skill sets, including in some instances the ability to do in-home or telephone sales. In addition, in many of our stores our employees and third-party contractors must be able to serve customers whose primary language and cultural traditions are different from their own.  Also, as our employees as a group become increasingly culturally diverse, our managers and sales associates must be able to manage and work collaboratively with employees whose primary language and cultural traditions are different from their own.


 



  



12







  



Index

 

 

Failure of a key vendor or service provider that we cannot quickly replace could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business.

No single vendor of the products we sell accounts for more than 8% of our total purchases, but we rely upon a number of vendors as the sole or primary source of some of the products we sell.  We also rely upon many independent service providers for technology solutions and other services that are important to many aspects of our business.   If these vendors or service providers fail or are unable to perform as expected and we are unable to replace them quickly, our business could be adversely affected at least temporarily until we are able to do so and potentially, in some cases, permanently.




Failure to achieve and maintain a high level of product and service quality could damage our image with customers and negatively impact our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition.

Product and service quality issues could result in negative impact on customer confidence in Lowe’s and the Company’s brand image.  As a result, Lowe’s reputation as a retailer of high quality products, including both national and Lowe’s private brands, could suffer. Additionally, a decline in product and service quality could result in product recalls, product liability and warranty claims.




If the domestic or international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted.

We source the approximately 40,000 products we stock and sell from over 7,000 domestic and international vendors.  We source an increasing number of those products directly from foreign manufacturers.  Financial instability among key vendors, political instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of products through our supply chain or increased their costs.




Item 1B