Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Risk
Factors.”
    
    Products
and Services
    
    Our
Products
    
    Product
Selection
    To meet
customers’ varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products
for home decorating, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and property
maintenance.  We offer home improvement products in the following
categories: appliances, paint, lumber, flooring, building materials, millwork,
lawn & landscape products, hardware, fashion plumbing, tools, lighting,
seasonal living, rough plumbing, nursery, outdoor power equipment, cabinets
& countertops, rough electrical, home environment, home organization, and
windows & walls.  A typical Lowe's store stocks approximately
40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special
Order Sales system and Lowes.com.  Our Special Order Sales product
offerings provide our customers the opportunity to select a wider assortment of
product options beyond the items we carry in our stores through electronic
product catalogs and Lowes.com.  We continue to enhance integrated
design tools and ordering systems storewide in order for customers to envision
projects, as well as to efficiently receive price quotes and complete an
order.  See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each
of the last three fiscal years.
    
    We are
committed to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, as
well as building long-term value for Lowe’s through the development of
proprietary brands.
    
    National
Brand Name Merchandise
    In many
product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill
confidence in their purchase.  Each Lowe’s store carries a wide
selection of national brand name merchandise such as Whirlpool®, Stainmaster®,
Valspar®, Pella® and many more.  Our merchandise selection provides
the DIY, DIFM and Commercial Business Customer a one-stop shop for a wide
variety of national brand name merchandise needed to complete home improvement,
repair, maintenance or construction projects.
    
    Proprietary
Brands
    We also
sell many brands that are exclusive to Lowe’s to further differentiate our
product offerings from our competitors’.  These unique brands cover
several categories, including lighting, flooring and tools, and give our
customers great quality and value. Examples of brand names exclusive to Lowe’s
are Aquasource®, Garden Treasures®, Harbor Breeze®, Kobalt®,
Portfolio®,  Reliabilt®, Top-Choice®, and Utilitech®.
    
    Product
Sourcing
    We source
our products from over 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide, with no single
vendor accounting for more than 7% of total purchases.  We believe
that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of
our products.  Whenever possible, we purchase directly from
manufacturers to provide savings for our customers and gross margin improvement
for Lowe’s.
    
    Supply
Chain
    To
efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock
levels, we own and operate 14 highly-automated regional distribution centers
(RDCs).  On average, each RDC serves 121 stores.  In
addition, we utilize a third-party distribution facility to serve our Canadian
stores.  We also operate 15 flatbed distribution centers (FDCs) to
distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of
packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl
sidings, ladders and building materials.  Additionally, we operate
three facilities to support our import business, Special Order Sales and
internet fulfillment. We also utilize three third-party transload
facilities.  These facilities do not hold inventory, but are the first
point of receipt for imported products.  The transload facilities sort
and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and
forecasts.
    
    On
average in fiscal 2009, over 74% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise
we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining
portion was shipped directly to stores from our vendors.
     
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          5
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
     
    
    Our
Service Offerings
    
    Installed
Sales
    We offer
installation services through independent contractors in many of our product
categories, with flooring, millwork and cabinets & countertops generating
the highest sales.  Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling
and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to maintain their
focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related
to installing the products sold are efficiently executed.  Installed
Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 6% of
total sales in fiscal 2009.
    
    Commercial
Business Customers
    We strive
to be a valued business partner to Commercial Business
Customers.  Because we understand the challenges they face in the
current economic environment and the importance of timeliness to these
customers, we continue to evaluate and tailor our support program to best meet
their needs.  These programs focus on in-stock and special order
merchandise, contractor packs, business credit, and other convenience services
such as fast ordering and 7-day delivery.  We also offer a Quote
Support Program which provides quotes to Commercial Business Customers for
larger projects and helps to ensure our pricing on these projects is
competitive.  In addition, we offer a district commercial account
specialist program in many of our markets which expands our close-support
program for Commercial Business Customers.  We also have a dedicated
web site for these customers, LowesForPros.com, that makes it easier for them to
use the programs we have designed specifically for them.
    
    Credit
Financing
    We offer
a proprietary credit card for retail customers.  In addition, we offer
a Lowe’s Project Card in all stores.  The Lowe’s Project Card provides
a major project, in-store financing solution to complement our Lowe’s Consumer
Revolving Credit Card.
    
    We also
offer proprietary credit programs for Commercial Business
Customers.  They include a Lowe’s Business Account, which is ideal for
small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe’s
Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that
pay in full each month.  We also offer the Lowe’s Business Rewards
Card from American Express®, which is a business credit card with a rewards
program that enables business owners to earn points on virtually all card
purchases.
    
    In
addition, we accept Visa®, MasterCard®, Discover® and American Express® credit
cards, as well as debit cards from all major networks.
    
    For
additional information regarding our credit programs, see the summary of our
significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.”
    
    Distribution
Channels
    
    Stores
    Our 1,710
retail home improvement stores are open seven days per week, 363 days per year,
and average approximately 113,000 square feet of retail selling space, which
includes approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling
space.  Our stores offer similar products and services, with certain
minor variations based on local market factors.
    
    Lowes.com
    Lowes.com
seeks to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and helping
reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by
providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online
buying guides and how-to videos and information.  These tools help
consumers make smarter, more informed purchasing decisions and give consumers
confidence as they undertake simple to more complex home improvement
projects.  We also enable consumers to choose from a variety of
multichannel fulfillment options, including buy online and pick-up in-store as
well as direct shipment to customers’ homes.  As our business evolves, we
continue to look for opportunities beyond fulfillment to leverage emerging
technologies and online trends to build strong relationships with consumers that
will make us the first choice for their home improvement
needs.  Lowes.com sales accounted for less than 1% of total sales in
fiscal 2009.
     
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          6
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
     
     
    New Store Expansion

      
      We opened
62 new stores in fiscal 2009, including five Canadian stores.  Our
2009 store openings included three primary prototypes: 117,000-square-foot
(117K) and 103,000-square-foot (103K) stores for large markets and a
94,000-square-foot (94K) store to serve smaller markets.  The
following table illustrates our store expansion over the last three
years:
    
     
    
      

             
             
            
              2009
            
             
             
            
              2008
            
             
             
            
              2007
            
             
          
            
              Number
      of stores, beginning of fiscal year
            
             
             
            1,649
             
             
             
            1,534
             
             
             
            1,385
             
          
            
              Stores
      opened
            
             
             
            62
             
             
             
            115
             
             
             
            153
             
          
            
              Stores
      relocated
            
             
             
            -
             
             
             
            -
             
             
             
            (4)
             
          
            
              Stores
      closed
            
             
             
            (1)
             
             
             
            -
             
             
             
            -
             
          
            
              Number
      of stores, end of fiscal year
            
             
             
            1,710
             
             
             
            1,649
             
             
             
            1,534
             
          
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
          
            
              Consists
      of:
            
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
          
            
              Domestic
            
             
             
            1,694
             
             
             
            1,638
             
             
             
            1,528
             
          
            
              Canadian
            
             
             
            16
             
             
             
            11
             
             
             
            6
             
          
    
    
    We expect
to open 40 to 45 new stores in fiscal 2010.  That estimate includes
continued expansion of our store base in Canada, including our first stores in
Western Canada, as well as our first stores in Monterrey, Mexico.  Our
fiscal 2010 store openings will be comprised primarily of 117K, 103K and 94K
stores.  As we continue our expansion and strive to maximize our
return on investment, we consider market demographics and land availability,
among other factors, to determine the appropriate prototype for a particular
market.  The reduction in store openings in 2010 as compared to 2009
reflects the continued challenging current economic environment.
    
    Employees
     
    As of
January 29, 2010, we employed approximately 166,000 full-time and 73,000
part-time employees, none of which in the U.S. or Canada are covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  Management considers its relations
with its employees to be good.
    
    Seasonality
and Working Capital
    
    The
retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business
is to some extent seasonal.  Historically, we have realized the
highest volume of sales during our fiscal second quarter (May, June and July)
and the lowest volume of sales during our fiscal fourth quarter (November,
December and January).  Accordingly, our working capital requirements
have historically been greater during our fiscal fourth quarter as we build
inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience
lower fiscal fourth quarter sales volumes.  We fund our working
capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but
also with short-term borrowings, if needed.  For more detailed
information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources
section in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
    
    Intellectual
Property
    
    The name
“Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to
our business. This subsidiary has various additional registered trademarks,
trade names and service marks, most of which are used in our proprietary brand
program.  Examples of brand names exclusive to Lowe’s are Aquasource®,
Garden Treasures®, Harbor Breeze®, Kobalt®, Portfolio®,  Reliabilt®,
Top-Choice®, and Utilitech®.
    
    Environmental
Leadership
    
    We
continue to build on a history of environmental leadership by helping consumers
reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving
money through a growing number of product and service solutions.  We offer
a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products
for the home, from ENERGY STAR® appliances to low VOC paint.  

     
    
      
        
           

        
        
          7
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    Some highlights of our environmental leadership include:

       
      
        

              
                
                  §  
              
              
                The
      U.S. Environmental Protection Agency awarded us the 2010 ENERGY STAR®
      Sustained Excellence Award in Retail, which recognizes our long-standing
      leadership as a retailer of energy-efficient products, as well as eight
      consecutive ENERGY STAR® awards (2003-2010), including four ENERGY STAR®
      Partner of the Year awards for educating consumers about the benefits of
      energy efficiency.
              
            
      
       
      
        

              
                
                  §
                
              
              
                We
      participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent
      not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary
      corporate climate change information in the
  world. 
              
            
      
       
      
        

              
                
                  §
                
              
              
                We
      provide in-store recycling for plastic bags, CFLs and rechargeable
      batteries.
              
            
      
       
    
    
      

            
              
                §  
              
            
            
              We
      were recognized as a Top 10 retailer participating in the U.S.
      Environmental Protection Agency’s Green Power Partnership
      program. 
            
          
    
     
    In
addition to operating our stores as efficiently as possible by reducing our
energy and water usage, we are striving to get products to our stores in an
environmentally responsible manner.  Our conservation strategies and
continued contributions to the transportation industry have been honored by
multiple SmartWay Environmental Excellence Awards, an innovative program launched by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency in 2004 that represents environmentally cleaner,
more fuel efficient transportation options. To earn those awards, we implemented
initiatives that resulted in reduced carbon dioxide emissions and less overall
highway congestion. These included increasing shipping by rail, increasing
efficiency of truckload shipments, allowing more products to be shipped on fewer
trailers, and continuing to use a higher percentage of SmartWay
carriers.
    
    Compliance
with Environmental Matters
    
    Our
operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations
that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the
environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment.  They have in the past and may in the future increase our
costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through
increased energy and product costs as producers of energy, cement, iron, steel,
pulp, paper, petroleum and other major emitters of greenhouse gases are
subjected to increased or new regulation or legislation that results in greater
regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.   We do not anticipate
any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2010 for environmental control
facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or
regulations.
     
    Reaching
Out
    
    We
believe community involvement extends beyond the boundaries of our stores. 
In 2009, Lowe's and Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF)
contributed more than $30 million to schools and community organizations in the
United States and Canada.  LCEF was created in 1957 to assist
communities through financial contributions while also encouraging employees to
become involved through volunteerism.  In 2009, LCEF supported more
than 2,300 community and education projects.  The Foundation funds our
signature grant program, Lowe’s Toolbox for Education®, and partnerships with
organizations including SkillsUSA®, Rebuilding
Together®, the Home Safety Council and The Nature Conservancy.  Since
2003, Lowe’s has worked with Habitat for Humanity® International to combat
substandard housing.  Our commitment through 2013 will bring Lowe's
Habitat contributions to nearly $40 million since the partnership began. We also
partner with customers to support the American Red Cross and the Muscular
Dystrophy Association (MDA), contributing more than $9 million to MDA since 2001
and nearly $21 million to the American Red Cross since 1999.  Lowe’s
also encourages employee volunteerism through the Lowe’s Heroes program, a
company-wide initiative.  For more information on our community
involvement, please see the Lowe’s Social Responsibility Report at www.Lowes.com/socialresponsibility.
    
    Available
Information
     
    Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made
available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor,
as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed
with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC).  The public may also read and copy any materials the Company
files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          8
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
     
    
    Item 1A – Risk Factors
    
    We are
exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Most are general risks and
uncertainties applicable to all retailers, but some are more particular to
retailers serving the home improvement industry.   Our operations
may also be affected by factors that are either not currently known to us or
which we currently consider immaterial to our business.  We describe
below some of the specific known factors that could negatively affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  All
forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report to the Securities
and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Shareholders and
in our subsequently filed quarterly and current reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public
communications, are qualified by the risks described below.
    
    Our
sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general
economy.
    General
economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally,
may adversely affect the U.S. economy, the global economy and our financial
performance.  These include, but are not limited to, periods of flat
economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to
time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability
and/or higher cost of credit to Lowe’s and its customers, slower rates of growth
in real disposable personal income, higher rates of unemployment, higher
consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation
of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and developments in
the war against terrorism in Asia, the Middle East and other parts of the
world.
    
    The
global recession that began in the U.S. in December 2007 and the slow recovery
that (we believe) is currently under way, together with the financial/credit
crisis that erupted during the fall of 2008 and led to the collapse, government
bailout or acquisition of numerous weakened financial institutions, have had and
will continue to have significant adverse effects on our results of
operations.  Continued high rates of unemployment, the psychological
effect of falling home prices, volatility in consumer confidence indices,
consumer deleveraging and reduced access to credit have combined to lead to
sharply reduced consumer spending, particularly by our customers on many of the
discretionary, big-ticket items we sell that tend to be larger home improvement
project driven.  For these reasons consumer confidence and willingness
to spend on discretionary items remain relatively low.  And although
we expect them to be stronger in 2010 than 2009, our sales and results of
operations will continue to be adversely affected throughout the 2010 fiscal
year.
    
    Adverse
changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may
negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable store
sales.
    Sales of
many of our product categories and services are driven by housing turnover and
activity level of home improvement projects.  The expiration of
government stimulus programs specific to the housing sector during the second
half of fiscal year 2010 may adversely affect the rate of housing turnover.
Steep declines over the last three years in home prices, the increasing number
of households with negative equity, increasing mortgage delinquency and
foreclosure rates, reduction in the availability of mortgage financing, rising
interest rates on variable rate mortgages, and significantly lower housing
turnover, have limited and may continue to limit consumers’ discretionary
spending, particularly on discretionary items, and affect their confidence level
to spend on larger home improvement projects.   The impact of these
economic factors specific to the home improvement industry is exacerbated by
what is expected to be a gradual and prolonged period of economic recovery with
slow employment growth.
    
    Unseasonable
weather conditions and adverse weather events can negatively affect our total
sales and comparable store sales.
    If
weather conditions are uncharacteristic of the time of year during any season,
they can hurt our sales by making it difficult to sell seasonal
merchandise.   Although the impact of unseasonable weather
conditions is mitigated somewhat by the broad geographic dispersion of our
stores, they continue to be a significant risk to the overall performance of our
business, particularly when they occur across a broad region of the
U.S.  Adverse weather events, such as a prolonged and widespread
drought, can hurt our sales of particular products as well.
    
    Our
store expansion and relocation strategy depends upon our ability to successfully
open and operate new stores each year.
    Our
growth in total sales depends not only on a recovery from the current
recessionary period but also to a substantial degree on successfully and
cost-effectively implementing our ongoing expansion program.  We have
scaled back our expansion plans significantly in the last two years and plan to
scale them back further during fiscal year 2010 in response to the weak
macroeconomic environment.   As we expand further, we must adapt
our merchandising, marketing and distribution initiatives to new markets both
domestically and internationally, as we continue to expand into Canada and
Mexico.   International expansion presents unique challenges that
may increase the anticipated costs and slow the anticipated rate of such
expansion.
    
    We also
plan to increase the number of our stores in markets in which we currently
operate.  Our ability to open additional stores depends, in large
measure, upon our ability to locate and acquire new store sites on acceptable
terms.   Local land use and other regulations restricting the
construction of buildings in the formats with which we operate may affect our
ability to open new stores in some markets.  As we develop more new
stores in metropolitan markets, we may incur increased costs to remediate
environmental pollution on some of the sites we are redeveloping that was caused
by previous owners of those sites.  Our ability to continue to expand
our operations depends also on our ability to attract and retain qualified
employees.  If we are unable to open new stores at the
     
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
     
    
    rate we
currently plan and staff them with qualified employees, the growth in our sales
and our competitive position could be adversely affected.
    
    If
we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managers, sales associates and other
employees we could lose sales to our competitors.
    Customers’
perceptions of the quality of service provided by employees can determine any
retailer’s success or failure.  If we fail to attract, train and
retain qualified managers and sales associates our financial performance could
be adversely impacted.  Consumers shopping for goods and services for
home improvement projects expect to have sales associates serving them who are
knowledgeable about product categories located throughout our stores. Excessive
turnover, which has historically been high among employees in entry-level or
part-time positions, increases the risk that sales associates will not have the
training and experience needed to provide competitive, high quality customer
service.
    
    Our
success in serving the needs of Commercial Business Customers is dependent upon
our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial sales
specialists.
    Commercial
Business Customers in the home improvement industry require that we have
well-trained commercial sales specialists at our project desks.  By
doing so, we can better serve the needs of this customer on a consistent
basis.  Our commercial sales specialists have a great depth of
knowledge about the products needed by Commercial Business
Customers.  If we fail to staff our project desks with experienced and
knowledgeable employees, we run the risk that we will lose Commercial Business
Customers.
    
    We
have many competitors, who, if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing
and distribution strategies effectively, could take sales and market share from
us.
    We
operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and
services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect
competitors.  The competitive environment in which we operate is
particularly challenging during recessionary and economic recovery periods with
heavy promotions, particularly of discretionary items, and competitor closings.
The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores,
price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment
and presentation, and customer service.  Our failure to respond
effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could
affect our financial performance.  Moreover, changes in the
promotional pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the
effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our expected
results.
    
    An
unusual number of product liability or breach of warranty claims for defective
products could expose us to expensive claims and damage our standing with
customers.
    We are
exposed to product liability and product warranty claims relating to the
products we sell that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows.  Because we do not have direct control over
the quality of products manufactured or supplied to us by our vendors and
because we self-insure for such product liability and warranty claims, we are
exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products.  Product
liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of
management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the
ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature, as well as mandatory or voluntary
recalls of defective products we have sold, could also have a negative impact on
customer confidence in the products we stock and in our reputation.
    
    Our
financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical
information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted.
    An
important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and
sales and cash flow growth is the identification and implementation of
improvements to our management information systems to improve operations such as
inventory replenishment systems, merchandise ordering, transportation, and
receipt processing.  Our financial performance could be adversely
affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are
unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our systems.
    
    Our
business and our reputation could be adversely affected by the failure to
protect sensitive customer, employee or vendor data or to comply with evolving
regulations relating to our obligation to protect such data.
    While we
have invested heavily in the protection of our information technology and
maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over individually
identifiable customer, employee and vendor data provided to us, a breakdown or a
breach in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of individually
identifiable customer or other sensitive data could nonetheless occur and have a
material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial
condition.  Such a breakdown or breach could also materially increase
the costs we incur to protect against such risks.  Also, the
regulatory environment relating to our obligation to protect such sensitive data
is becoming stricter.  A material failure on our part to comply with
these evolving regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory
sanctions and potentially to lawsuits.
    
    If
the domestic or international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our
sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted.
    We source
the approximately 40,000 products we stock and sell from approximately 7,000
domestic and international vendors.  We source many of those products
directly from foreign manufacturers.  Political or financial
instability among suppliers, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange
rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could
negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of
products through our supply chain.   The global recession from which
we are
     
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
     
     
    beginning
to recover and the credit crisis that began in late 2008 and continues to some
extent have adversely affected the operations and financial stability of some of
our vendors by reducing their sales and restricting their access to
capital.  We may have to replace some of our smaller vendors, and some
of our vendors may not be able to fulfill their financial obligations to us or
to do so in a timely manner.
    
    Our
inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of
brand name products could negatively impact our ability to differentiate
ourselves from competitors.
    Part of
our expansion strategy includes continued differentiation from
competitors.  To better distinguish our product offering, we form
strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products
under a variety of recognized and respected brand names.  The
inability to effectively and efficiently manage the relationships with these
suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial
results.
    
    
Changes in existing
or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our business.
     Laws
and regulations at both the state and federal levels change frequently and can
impose significant costs and other burdens of compliance on our business and our
merchandise vendors.  Any changes in regulations, the imposition of
additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation that affects
employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs,
health care, tax or environmental issues, could have an adverse impact, directly
or indirectly, on our financial condition and results of
operations.
    
    Item 1B