. Risk Factors.See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 27 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on net capital calculations.Regulation outside the U.S.. Jefferies is an active participant in the international capital markets and provides investment banking services internationally, primarily in Europe and Asia. As is true in the U.S., Jefferies subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations promulgated and enforced by, among other regulatory bodies, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Japan Financial Services Agency and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Every country in which Jefferies does business imposes upon us laws, rules and regulations similar to those in the U.S., including with respect to some form of capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery rules, compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations and similar regulatory reform. For additional information see .Risk Factors.Our business is subject to a number of risks.  You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common shares.  The risks set out below are not the only risks we face.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments are possible, changing the components of our assets and liabilities, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares.  Any future acquisitions or dispositions may result in significant changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities.  Consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may be affected by factors different from those affecting our financial condition, results of operations and trading price at the present time.We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we expand our business.  We expect the growth of our business to come primarily from internal expansion and through acquisitions and strategic partnering.  As we expand our business, there can be no assurance that financial controls, the level and knowledge of personnel, operational abilities, legal and compliance controls and other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and growth.  The ineffectiveness of any of these controls or systems could adversely affect our business and prospects.  In addition, if we acquire new businesses and introduce new products, we face numerous risks and uncertainties integrating their controls and systems, including financial controls, accounting and data processing systems, management controls and other operations.  A failure to integrate these systems and controls, and even an inefficient integration of these systems and controls, could adversely affect our business and prospects.Certain business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring Jefferies into contact directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within its traditional client and counterparty base and may expose Jefferies to new asset classes and new markets.  These business activities expose Jefferies to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.Our business, financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon those of our individual businesses, and our aggregate investment in particular industries. We are a holding company with investments in businesses and assets in a number of industries.  Jefferies is our largest investment and we have significant additional investments in the financial services industry.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon our investments.  Any material adverse change in one of our material investments or in a particular industry in which we invest may cause material adverse changes to our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The more capital we devote to a particular investment or industry may increase the risk that such investment could significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations, possibly in a material adverse way.Jefferies may incur losses if its risk management is not effective.  Jefferies seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure. Its risk management processes and procedures are designed to limit its exposure to acceptable levels as it conducts its business. Jefferies applies a comprehensive framework of limits on a variety of key metrics to constrain the risk profile of its business activities. The size of the limit reflects Jefferies’ risk tolerance for a certain activity. The framework includes inventory position and exposure limits on a gross and net basis, scenario analysis and stress tests, value-at-risk, sensitivities, exposure concentrations, aged inventory, amount of Level 3 assets, counterparty exposure, leverage, cash capital, and performance analysis. While Jefferies employ various risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application, including risk tolerance determinations, cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. As a result, Jefferies may incur losses notwithstanding its risk management processes and procedures.Recent legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect Jefferies business.  In recent years, there has been significant legislation and increased regulation affecting the financial services industry.  These legislative and regulatory initiatives affect not only Jefferies, but also its competitors and certain of its clients.  These changes could have an effect on Jefferies revenue and profitability, limit Jefferies ability to pursue certain business opportunities, impact the value of assets that it holds, require Jefferies to change certain business practices, impose additional costs on Jefferies and otherwise adversely affect its business.  Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that legislation and regulation will not eventually have an adverse effect on Jefferies business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Extensive international regulation of Jefferies business limits its activities, and, if Jefferies violates these regulations, it may be subject to significant penalties.  The financial services industry is subject to extensive laws, rules and regulations in every 14country in which Jefferies operates.  Firms that engage in securities and derivatives trading, wealth and asset management and investment banking must comply with the laws, rules and regulations imposed by national and state governments and regulatory and self-regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over such activities.  Such laws, rules and regulations cover all aspects of the financial services business, including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and corruption efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.Each of Jefferies regulators supervises its business activities to monitor compliance with such laws, rules and regulations in the relevant jurisdiction.  In addition, if there are instances in which Jefferies regulators question its compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, they may investigate the facts and circumstances to determine whether Jefferies has complied.  At any moment in time, Jefferies may be subject to one or more such investigation or similar reviews.  At this time, all such investigations and similar reviews are insignificant in scope and immaterial to Jefferies.  However, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the operations of Jefferies businesses will not violate such laws, rules, or regulations and such investigations and similar reviews will not result in adverse regulatory requirements, regulatory enforcement actions and/or fines.Changing conditions in financial markets and the economy could impact Jefferies through decreased revenues, losses or other adverse consequences.  As a global securities and investment banking firm, global or regional changes in the financial markets or economic conditions could adversely affect Jefferies business in many ways, including the following:•A market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions executed for customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues Jefferies receives from commissions and spreads.•Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of transactions in which Jefferies provides underwriting, financial advisory and other services.  Jefferies investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and sales and trading or placement fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which Jefferies participates and could therefore be adversely affected by unfavorable financial or economic conditions.•Adverse changes in the market could lead to losses from principal transactions on Jefferies inventory positions.•Adverse changes in the market could also lead to a reduction in revenues from asset management fees and investment income from managed funds and losses on Jefferies own capital invested in managed funds. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by Jefferies funds and portfolio managers could reduce asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors.•Limitations on the availability of credit, such as occurred during 2008, can affect Jefferies ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect Jefferies liquidity and results of operations. Global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and may be in the future.  Jefferies cost and availability of funding could be affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. •New or increased taxes on compensation payments such as bonuses or on balance sheet items may adversely affect Jefferies profits.•Should one of Jefferies customers or competitors fail, Jefferies business prospects and revenue could be negatively impacted due to negative market sentiment causing customers to cease doing business with Jefferies and Jefferies lenders to cease extending credit to Jefferies, which could adversely affect its business, funding and liquidity.Unfounded allegations about Jefferies could result in extreme price volatility and price declines in its debt securities and loss of revenue, clients, and employees.  Jefferies reputation and business activity can be affected by statements and actions of third parties, even false or misleading statements by them.  While Jefferies has been able to dispel such rumors in the past, its debt-securities prices suffered extreme volatility.  In addition, Jefferies operations in the past have been impacted as some clients either ceased doing business or temporarily reduced the level of business they do, thereby decreasing Jefferies revenue stream.  Although Jefferies was able to reverse the negative impact of such unfounded allegations and false rumors, there is no assurance that Jefferies will be able to do so successfully in the future and the potential failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Jefferies business, financial condition and liquidity.A credit rating agency downgrade could significantly impact our and Jefferies businesses.  We and Jefferies have credit ratings issued by various credit rating agencies.  Maintaining our credit ratings is important to our and Jefferies business and financial condition.  We advised certain credit rating agencies that we would target specific concentration, leverage and liquidity principles, expressed in the form of certain ratios and percentages.  Our failure to meet these ratios and percentages may trigger a ratings downgrade.  We and Jefferies intend to access capital markets and issue debt securities from time to time, and a ratings downgrade may decrease demand for such offered security.  A decrease in demand would not only make a successful financing more difficult, but also increase our respective capital costs.  Similarly, our and Jefferies access to other forms of credit may be limited and our respective borrowing costs may increase if our or Jefferies credit ratings are downgraded.  A downgrade could also negatively 15impact our and Jefferies outstanding debt prices and our stock price.  In addition, in connection with certain over-the-counter derivative contract arrangements and certain other trading arrangements, a ratings downgrade could cause us or Jefferies to provide additional collateral to counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations which would negatively impact our and Jefferies liquidity and financial condition.  There can be no assurance that our or Jefferies credit ratings will not be downgraded.Jefferies principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss.  A considerable portion of Jefferies revenues is derived from trading in which Jefferies acts as principal.  Jefferies may incur trading losses relating to the purchase, sale or short sale of fixed income, high yield, international, convertible, and equity securities and futures and commodities for its own account.  In any period, Jefferies may experience losses on its inventory positions as a result of price fluctuations, lack of trading volume, and illiquidity.  From time to time, Jefferies may engage in a large block trade in a single security or maintain large position concentrations in a single security, securities of a single issuer, securities of issuers engaged in a specific industry, or securities from issuers located in a particular country or region.  In general, because Jefferies inventory is marked to market on a daily basis, any adverse price movement in these securities could result in a reduction of Jefferies revenues and profits.  In addition, Jefferies may engage in hedging transactions that if not successful, could result in losses.Increased competition may adversely affect Jefferies revenues, profitability and staffing.  All aspects of Jefferies business are intensely competitive.  Jefferies competes directly with a number of bank holding companies and commercial banks, other brokers and dealers, investment banking firms and other financial institutions.  In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increasing competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations.  Jefferies believes that the principal factors affecting competition involve market focus, reputation, the abilities of professional personnel, the ability to execute the transaction, relative price of the service and products being offered, bundling of products and services and the quality of service.  Increased competition or an adverse change in Jefferies competitive position could lead to a reduction of business and therefore a reduction of revenues and profits.Competition also extends to the hiring and retention of highly skilled employees.  A competitor may be successful in hiring away employees, which may result in Jefferies losing business formerly serviced by such employees.  Competition can also raise Jefferies costs of hiring and retaining the employees Jefferies needs to effectively operate its business.Operational risks may disrupt Jefferies business, result in regulatory action against Jefferies or limit Jefferies growth.  Jefferies businesses are highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions Jefferies processes have become increasingly complex.  If any of Jefferies financial, accounting or other data processing systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in Jefferies internal processes, people or systems, Jefferies could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.  These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond Jefferies control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or Jefferies inability to occupy one or more of our buildings.  The inability of Jefferies systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain its ability to expand its businesses.Certain of Jefferies financial and other data processing systems rely on access to and the functionality of operating systems maintained by third parties. If the accounting, trading or other data processing systems on which Jefferies is dependent are unable to meet increasingly demanding standards for processing and security or, if they fail or have other significant shortcomings, Jefferies could be adversely affected.  Such consequences may include Jefferies inability to effect transactions and manage Jefferies exposure to risk.In addition, despite the contingency plans Jefferies has in place, Jefferies ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which they are located.  This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by Jefferies or third parties with which Jefferies conducts business.Jefferies operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in Jefferies computer systems and networks. Although Jefferies takes protective measures and devotes significant resources to maintaining and upgrading its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and detection prevention systems, monitoring firewall to safeguard critical business applications and supervising third party providers that have access to its systems, Jefferies computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. Additionally, if a client’s computer system, network or other technology is compromised by unauthorized access, Jefferies may face losses or other adverse consequences by unknowingly entering into unauthorized transactions. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize Jefferies or its clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks. Furthermore, such events may cause interruptions or malfunctions in Jefferies, its clients’, its counterparties’ or third parties’ 16operations, including the transmission and execution of unauthorized transactions. Jefferies may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and Jefferies may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by Jefferies. The increased use of smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices as well as cloud computing may also heighten these and other operational risks. Similar to other firms, Jefferies and its third party providers continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, computer viruses and malware, and cyber attacks designed to disrupt of degrade service or cause other damage and denial of service. Additional challenges are posed by external parties, including foreign state actors. There can be no assurance that such unauthorized access or cyber incidents will not occur in the future, and they could occur more frequently and on a larger scale.Legal liability may harm Jefferies business.  Many aspects of Jefferies business involve substantial risks of liability, and in the normal course of business, Jefferies has been named as a defendant or codefendant in lawsuits involving primarily claims for damages.  The risks associated with potential legal liabilities often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.  The expansion of Jefferies business, including increases in the number and size of investment banking transactions and Jefferies expansion into new areas impose greater risks of liability.  In addition, unauthorized or illegal acts of Jefferies employees could result in substantial liability.  Substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause Jefferies significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm Jefferies business and its prospects.Jefferies business is subject to significant credit risk.  In the normal course of Jefferies businesses, Jefferies is involved in the execution, settlement and financing of various customer and principal securities and derivative transactions.  These activities are transacted on a cash, margin or delivery-versus-payment basis and are subject to the risk of counterparty or customer nonperformance.  Although transactions are generally collateralized by the underlying security or other securities, Jefferies still faces the risks associated with changes in the market value of the collateral through settlement date or during the time when margin is extended and the risk of counterparty nonperformance to the extent collateral has not been secured or the counterparty defaults before collateral or margin can be adjusted.  Jefferies may also incur credit risk in its derivative transactions to the extent such transactions result in uncollateralized credit exposure to counterparties.Jefferies seeks to control the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily.  Jefferies may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or return collateral pledged.  In the case of aged securities failed to receive, Jefferies may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty.  However, there can be no assurances that Jefferies risk controls will be successful.Derivative transactions may expose Jefferies to unexpected risk and potential losses.  Jefferies is party to a number of derivative transactions that require it to deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment.  In a number of cases, Jefferies does not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions.  As a result, Jefferies is subject to the risk that it may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery.  This could cause Jefferies to forfeit the payments due to it under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm.The prices and availability of key raw materials affects the profitability of our beef processing and manufacturing operations.  The supply and market price of cattle purchased by National Beef are dependent upon a variety of factors over which National Beef has no control, including fluctuations in the size of herds maintained by producers, the relative cost of feed and energy, weather and livestock diseases.  A decline in the supply of fed cattle available for National Beef’s Brawley facility was a key factor in the 2013 decision to close the plant.  The cost of raw materials used by our manufacturing businesses has increased as a result of a variety of factors. Although our manufacturing subsidiaries are not currently experiencing any shortage of raw materials, if the subsidiaries experience shortages, revenues and profitability could decline.Outbreaks of disease affecting livestock can adversely affect the supply of cattle and the demand for National Beef’s products.  National Beef is subject to risks relating to animal health and disease control.  An outbreak of disease affecting livestock (such as foot-and-mouth disease or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (“BSE”), commonly referred to as mad cow disease) could result in restrictions on sales of products, restrictions on purchases of livestock from suppliers or widespread destruction of cattle.  The discovery of BSE in the past caused certain countries to restrict or prohibit the importation of beef products.  Outbreaks of diseases, or the perception by the public that an outbreak has occurred, or other concerns regarding diseases, can lead to inadequate supply, cancellation of orders by customers and create adverse publicity, any of which can have a significant negative impact on consumer demand and, as a result, on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.17If National Beef’s products or products made by others using its products become contaminated or are alleged to be contaminated, National Beef may be subject to product liability claims that could adversely affect its business. National Beef may be subject to significant liability in excess of insurance policy limits if its products or products made by others using its products cause injury, illness or death.  In addition, National Beef could recall or be required to recall products that are, or are alleged to be, contaminated, spoiled or inappropriately labeled.  Organisms producing food borne illnesses (such as E. coli) could be present in National Beef’s products and result in illness or death if they are not eliminated through further processing or cooking.  Contamination of National Beef’s or its competitors’ products may create adverse publicity or cause consumers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of beef products.  Allegations of product contamination may also be harmful even if they are untrue or result from third-party tampering.  Any of these events may increase costs or decrease demand for beef products, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.National Beef generally does not enter into long-term contracts with customers; as a result the volumes and prices at which beef products are sold are subject to market forces.  National Beef’s customers generally place orders for products on an as-needed basis and, as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future.  The loss of one or more significant customers, a significant decline in the volume of orders from customers or a significant decrease in beef product prices for a sustained period of time could negatively impact cash flows and results of operations.National Beef’s international operations expose it to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency fluctuations.  Approximately 10.5% of National Beef’s annual sales are export sales, primarily to Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Hong Kong, China (for hides), Taiwan, Italy and Egypt, and on average these sales have a higher margin than domestic sales of similar products.  A reduction in international sales could adversely affect revenues and margins.  Risks associated with international activities include inflation or deflation and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including changes in currency exchange rates of other countries that may export beef products in competition with National Beef; the closing of borders by foreign countries to product imports due to disease or other perceived health or food safety issues; exchange controls; changes in tariffs; changes in political or economic conditions; trade restrictions and changes in regulatory requirements.  The occurrence of any of these events could increase costs, lower demand for products or limit operations, which could have a significant adverse effect on cash flows, results of operations and future prospects. National Beef incurs substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations and could incur additional costs as a result of new regulations or compliance failures that result in civil or criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity.  National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental regulations administered by the EPA and state, local and other authorities with regards to water usage, wastewater and storm water discharge, air emissions and odor, and waste management and disposal.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have serious consequences, including criminal, civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity.  In addition, National Beef incurs and will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with existing and new or more stringent regulations and requirements.  All of National Beef’s processing facilities procure wastewater treatment services from municipal or other regional governmental agencies that are in turn subject to environmental laws and permit limits regarding their water discharges.  As permit limits are becoming more stringent, upgrades and capital improvements to these municipal treatment facilities are likely.  In locations where National Beef is a significant volume discharger, it could be asked to contribute toward the costs of such upgrades or to pay significantly increased water or sewer charges to recoup such upgrade costs.  National Beef may also be required to undertake upgrades and make capital improvements to its own wastewater pretreatment facilities, the cost of which could be significant.  Compliance with environmental regulations has had and will continue to have a significant impact on National Beef’s cash flows and profitability.  In addition, under most environmental laws, most notably the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and analogous state laws, National Beef could be held liable for the cost to investigate or remediate any contamination at properties it owns or operates, or as to which it arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, as such liability is imposed without regard to fault.National Beef is subject to extensive governmental regulation and noncompliance with or changes in applicable requirements could adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by the USDA, including its FSIS and GIPSA agencies, the FDA, and other federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, safety, distribution, advertising and labeling of its products.  Recently, food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight by the USDA.  National Beef is also subject to a variety of immigration, labor and worker safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the hiring and retention of employees.  Failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations could result in administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, fines, interruption of operations, recalls of products or seizures of properties, potential criminal sanctions and personal injury or other damage claims.  These remedies, changes in the applicable laws and regulations or discovery of currently unknown conditions could increase costs, limit business operations and reduce profitability.18National Beef’s performance depends on favorable labor relations with its employees, in particular employees represented by collective bargaining agreements.  A substantial number of National Beef’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A labor-related work stoppage by unionized employees, or employees who become unionized in the future, could limit National Beef’s ability to process and ship products or could increase costs.  Any significant increase in labor costs, deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of National Beef’s locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our asset management business in many ways, by reducing the value or performance of our funds (including our invested funds and funds invested by third parties) or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial condition. The build-out of our asset management business is affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions and events throughout the world, such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws and regulations, market perceptions and other factors.  In addition, we have substantially invested in many of our funds.  Adverse changes such as those mentioned above could lead to a reduction in investment income, losses on our own capital invested and lower revenues from asset management fees.  Such adverse changes may also lead to a decrease in new capital raised and may cause investors to withdraw their investments and commitments.  Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could reduce asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that may make it more difficult to attract new investors or retain existing investors.  Uncertainties inherent in HRG’s business and operations could impact the realizability of the full value of our investment.  As a diversified holding company, HRG is subject to risks and uncertainties across the industries in which it invests.  It is also subject to risks associated with its holding company structure, which include potential difficulties or limitations in receiving distributions from its subsidiaries, and the risk that acquisitions, dispositions or integrations of subsidiaries may not be successful.  We hold about 23% of the common shares of HRG and we record our investment at fair value.  As we do not control HRG, its management may make decisions that are not in our best interest.  HRG could decide to issue additional common shares, which would dilute our current ownership.  Additionally, changes in the market price of HRG shares may lead to volatility in our results of operations.  For additional risk factors concerning HRG, see its SEC filings.Uncertainties relating to the results of FXCM could impact the value of our investment in FXCM.  FXCM’s revenue and operating results may vary significantly from period to period due to movements and trends in the world’s currency markets and to fluctuations in trading levels.  In addition, attrition of customer accounts, which are primarily comprised of individual retail customers, and failure to attract new accounts could impact revenue and profitability.  FXCM is also subject to regulatory risks, as well as risks such as those relating to government actions like the unexpected actions of the Swiss National Bank on January 15, 2015, which resulted in the historic movement in the Swiss Franc.  As a result of this event, FXCM’s customers suffered significant losses and generated debit balances owed to FXCM of approximately $276.0 million.  Our $300 million two-year secured term loan to FXCM allowed FXCM to come into compliance with regulatory net capital requirements.  Pursuant to this loan, we have rights to a variable proportion of certain distributions in connection with an FXCM sale of assets or certain other events, and to require a sale of FXCM beginning in January 2018.  We do not have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact FXCM’s performance.  We record our investment in FXCM at fair value.  As we adjust to fair value each quarter, we anticipate there could be volatility in the FXCM valuation, which could materially impact our results in a given period.  For additional risk factors concerning FXCM, see its SEC filings.The performance of our oil and gas exploration and development investments, Juneau and Vitesse, is impacted by uncertainties specific to the oil and gas industry which we cannot control.  This industry is speculative by its very nature and involves a high degree of risk.  The value of these investments may be impacted by changes in the prices of oil, gas and natural gas liquids, which are affected by local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand and which have a history of significant price volatility.  These investments are also exposed to changes in regulations affecting the industry, which could increase our cost of compliance, increase taxes or reduce or delay business opportunities.  In addition, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in the estimation of future oil and gas production and future income streams associated with production.  As a result, actual results could materially differ from those we currently anticipate and our ability to profitably grow these investments could be adversely affected.Declines in the U.S. housing market have reduced revenues of our manufacturing businesses and may continue to do so.  Our manufacturing operations, particularly Idaho Timber, have generated significant revenues when the U.S. housing market was strong.  The weak U.S. housing market during the last few years has resulted in fewer new housing starts, which has adversely impacted revenues of our manufacturing businesses, particularly Idaho Timber; despite some recent improvements in the housing market, revenues are not expected to return to prior levels until the U.S. housing market fully recovers.19We may not be able to insure certain risks economically.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be financially viable if we make a claim.  If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, or if we are required to pay a deductible for an insured loss, results of operations could be adversely affected.  Damages from storms could result in the closing of our facilities to make repairs, resulting in lost business and adversely affecting results of operations.If Berkadia does not maintain certain specified ratings from the credit rating agencies it could lose its mortgage servicing rights.  Berkadia is required to maintain specified servicer ratings from the credit rating agencies, and failure to do so would give its customers the right to terminate their mortgage servicing agreements.  If mortgage servicing agreements were terminated as a result of a servicer ratings downgrade, we could lose our entire equity investment.When Berkadia originates loans for Fannie Mae, it is often required to share in the losses on such loans, which could be in excess of reserved amounts.  Berkadia carries a reserve on its balance sheet for contingent losses on loans originated for Fannie Mae that have loss sharing requirements.  If actual losses exceed amounts reserved, Berkadia’s profitability and cash flows will be reduced.The loss of or changes in Berkadia’s relationships with U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises and federal agencies would have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s business.  Berkadia’s failure to comply with U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprise or agency requirements may result in its termination as an approved seller/servicer, mortgagee or issuer.  The loss of any such status could have a significant adverse impact on Berkadia’s results of operations, could result in a loss of similar approvals from other U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises or federal agencies and could have other adverse consequences to the business.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac retain broad discretion to terminate Berkadia as a seller/servicer without cause upon notice.Changes in existing government-sponsored and federal mortgage programs could negatively affect Berkadia’s business.  Berkadia’s ability to generate income through mortgage sales to institutional investors depends in part on programs sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA, which purchase such loans from Berkadia and/or facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market.  The federal government has announced that the continuation of these programs is under review, and that any or all of the government agency programs could be substantially modified or eliminated in the future.  Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction or change in, the operation of those programs would have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s loan origination and servicing business and results of operations.Berkadia’s fee-for-service businesses may be terminated on short notice.  Some of Berkadia's fee-for-service customers are permitted to terminate Berkadia on short notice, usually 30 days.  If Berkadia loses fee-for-service customers, it would negatively impact Berkadia’s results of operations and cash flows.Certain loan programs expose Berkadia to credit and interest rate risk that it is not subject to with its government agency lending programs.  Unlike its government agency lending programs, Berkadia makes certain short term, floating rate bridge loans ("Bridge Loans") and may from time to time originate loans for sale into commercial mortgage-backed securitizations ("CMBS Loans"). Berkadia cannot be assured it will be able to sell CMBS Loans and Bridge Loans at par value to a third-party without any exposure to credit or interest rate risk.  If for any reason Berkadia is unable to sell a CMBS Loan into the securitization market or if a borrower is unable to refinance a Bridge Loan, Berkadia will retain all risks associated with such loan for as long as it owns the loan.  Berkadia may be forced to foreclose on defaulted loans and suffer a loss, or to sell loans to a third party at a discount, either of which would reduce Berkadia’s profitability and cash flows. As of December 31, 2015, the aggregate amount of Bridge Loans on Berkadia's balance sheet was $597.6 million. Berkadia is not currently originating any CMBS Loans and as of December 31, 2015, had no such loans held for sale. If Berkadia suffered significant losses and was unable to repay its commercial paper borrowings, we would be exposed to loss pursuant to a reimbursement obligation to Berkshire Hathaway.  Berkadia obtains funds generated by commercial paper sales of an affiliate of Berkadia.  All of the proceeds from the commercial paper sales are used by Berkadia to fund new mortgage loans, servicer advances, investments and other working capital requirements.  Repayment of the commercial paper is supported by a $2.5 billion surety policy issued by a Berkshire Hathaway insurance subsidiary and a Berkshire Hathaway corporate guaranty, and we have agreed to reimburse Berkshire Hathaway for one-half of any losses incurred thereunder.  If Berkadia suffers significant losses and is unable to repay its commercial paper borrowings, we would suffer losses to the extent of its reimbursement obligation to Berkshire Hathaway.  As of December 31, 2015, the aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding was $2.47 billion.Berkadia’s business is significantly affected by general economic conditions, particularly in the commercial real estate industry, and could be harmed in the event of a continued economic slowdown, prolonged recession or other market downturn or disruption.  Berkadia’s business and earnings are sensitive to changes in government policies and regulations, changes in interest rates, inflation, deflation, oversupply of real estate properties, fluctuations in the real estate and debt capital markets and 20developments in national and local economies.  Unfavorable economic conditions could have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s business, including decreasing the demand for new loans and the servicing of loans originated by third parties.Garcadia’s business is dependent, in part, upon revenue from new and used car sales at its dealerships, and declines in revenues due to industry or other factors could result in reduced profitability, reduced cash flows and/or impairment charges.  Garcadia has recorded impairment charges in the past, principally for goodwill and other intangible assets, and if the automobile industry experiences a downturn in the future, additional impairment charges are likely, reducing our profitability.From time to time we may invest in illiquid securities that are subject to standstill agreements or are otherwise restricted.  From time to time we may invest in securities that are subject to restrictions which prohibit us from selling the subject securities for a period of time.  Although we are not a party to any such agreement currently should we enter into these agreements in the future and need to generate liquidity quickly, such agreements would limit our ability to dispose of the underlying investment while the agreement is effective.We could experience significant increases in operating costs and reduced profitability due to competition for skilled management and staff employees in our operating businesses.  We compete with many other entities for skilled management and staff employees, including entities that operate in different market sectors than us.  Costs to recruit and retain adequate personnel could adversely affect results of operations.Extreme weather, loss of electrical power or other forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business.  Natural disasters, fire, terrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could interfere with our operating businesses due to power outages, fuel shortages, water shortages, damage to facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things.  Any of these factors, as well as disruptions to information systems, could have an adverse effect on financial results.We rely on the security of our information technology systems and those of our third party providers to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. Some of our businesses involve the storage and transmission of customers’ personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information.  While we believe that we have implemented protective measures to effectively secure information and prevent security breaches, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, computer viruses or other unauthorized attempts by third parties to access the proprietary information of our customers.  Information technology breaches and failures could disrupt our ability to function in the normal course of business resulting in lost revenue, the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information and the incurrence of remediation and notification costs, resulting in legal and financial exposure.  Moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues.From time to time we are subject to litigation, for which we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.  We and our subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary, routine litigation incidental to our business or not significant to our consolidated financial position or liquidity.  Although our current assessment is that, other than as disclosed in this report, there is no pending litigation that could have a significant adverse impact, if our assessment proves to be in error, then the outcome of litigation could have a significant impact on our financial statements.We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize our deferred tax asset, which would also have to be reduced if U.S. federal income tax rates are lowered.  At December 31, 2015, we have recognized net deferred tax assets of $1.6 billion.  If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset.  If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), the NOLs would expire unused.  Our projections of future taxable income required to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset reflect numerous assumptions about our operating businesses and investments, and are subject to change as conditions change specific to our business units, investments or general economic conditions.  Changes that are adverse to us could result in the need to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance resulting in a charge to results of operations and a decrease to total stockholders’ equity.  In addition, if U.S. federal income tax rates are lowered, we would be required to reduce our net deferred tax asset with a corresponding reduction to earnings during the period.If our tax filing positions were to be challenged by federal, state and local or foreign tax jurisdictions, we may not be wholly successful in defending our tax filing positions.  We record reserves for unrecognized tax benefits based on our assessment of the probability of successfully sustaining tax filing positions.  Management exercises significant judgment when assessing the probability of successfully sustaining tax filing positions, and in determining whether a contingent tax liability should be recorded and if so estimating the amount.  If our tax filing positions are successfully challenged, payments could be required that are in 21excess of reserved amounts or we may be required to reduce the carrying amount of our net deferred tax asset, either of which result could be significant to our Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition or results of operations.We have indicated our intention to pay dividends at the annual rate of $0.25 per common share, on a quarterly basis.  The payment of dividends in the future is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon general business conditions, legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem to be relevant.Our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions.  We and certain of our subsidiaries have significant NOLs and other tax attributes, the amount and availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and uncertainties.  In order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from acquiring additional common shares.  The restriction will remain until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of a taxable year to which these tax benefits may no longer be carried forward.  The restriction may be waived by our Board of Directors on a case by case basis.  Shareholders are advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our common shares approaches the proscribed level.Item 1B