Item 1A.   Risk Factors.
- -------    ------------

       Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully
consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information
included or incorporated by reference in this Report, before you decide whether
to purchase our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we
face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and
results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the
trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of
your investment.

        Future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments
are possible, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares.
We continuously evaluate the retention and disposition of our existing
operations and investigate possible acquisitions of new businesses. Any future
acquisitions or dispositions may result in significant changes in the
composition of our assets and liabilities. Consequently, our financial
condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may
be affected by factors different from those affecting our financial condition,
results of operations and trading price at the present time.

        Future acquisitions and investments may expose us to risks to which we
are not currently subject. Future acquisitions and investments may expose us to
risks such as:

     o    the possibility that future acquisitions and investments may not
          immediately, if ever, add value to our Company;

                                       19


     o    diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses; and

     o    the possibility that the acquired businesses or investments will
          generate insufficient profits to offset the increased expenses
          associated with the acquisitions.

        Our ability to make future acquisitions and investments successfully
depends on a range of factors, including our ability to identify and compete
with others for potential acquisition targets, the acquisition price, terms and
conditions of any completed acquisitions, and the future profitability of any
new acquisitions and investments.

        We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are dependent on the
services of Ian M. Cumming and Joseph S. Steinberg, our Chairman of the Board
and President, respectively. Messrs. Cumming's and Steinberg's employment
agreements with us expire June 30, 2015. These individuals are also significant
shareholders of our Company. As of February 15, 2007, Messrs. Cumming and
Steinberg and their respective families (excluding certain private charitable
foundations) beneficially owned approximately 11.6% and 12.8% of our outstanding
common shares, respectively. Accordingly, Messrs. Cumming and Steinberg exert
significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our shareholders,
including the election or removal of directors and the approval of mergers or
other business combination transactions.

        We operate in a variety of industries and market sectors, certain of
which may be more susceptible to economic downturns than others. The industries
in which we operate may be subject to the effects of national or local economic
cycles, increased competition and changes in demographic conditions, any of
which may adversely affect our businesses and are beyond our control. Changes in
economic conditions in the U.S. or internationally can cause fluctuation in
prices and sales volumes which could adversely affect the Company's operating
results. A worsening of general economic or market conditions may result in
lower valuations for our businesses or investments or have a negative impact on
the credit quality of our assets.

        Declines in the U.S. housing market could reduce revenues and
profitability of the manufacturing businesses. Revenues at our manufacturing
segments benefit from strong new housing starts and the strong home improvement
market in the U.S. Declines in the U.S. housing market, resulting from local,
regional, national or international economic changes, or from other factors,
including increases in mortgage interest rate levels, have negatively impacted
the revenues and profits of our manufacturing businesses, which could continue.

       We are subject to risks associated with increased volatility in raw
material prices and availability of key raw materials. Idaho Timber and Conwed
Plastics purchase significant amounts of raw materials from third parties for
use in their operations. The price for polypropylene, the principal raw material
used by Conwed Plastics, tends to fluctuate with the price of oil and as a
result has risen significantly over the past couple of years. To the extent this
trend continues and we are unable to pass these price increases to our
customers, our results of operations will be negatively impacted. A significant
portion of Idaho Timber's raw material purchases are from foreign suppliers, and
the availability of that supply can be adversely impacted by trade disputes, or
by the imposition of export tariffs on Canadian imports resulting from the
Softwood Lumber Agreement between Canada and the U.S. In addition, raw material
prices at Idaho Timber will not always rise and fall in proportion to selling
prices of Idaho Timber's products, which can have a negative impact on operating
results.

       From time to time we are subject to litigation, for which we may be
unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which if adversely
determined, may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition or results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are parties
to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary, routine
litigation incidental to their business or not material to the Company's
consolidated financial position or liquidity. However, adverse determinations in
specific legal matters could have a material impact on the Company's financial
statements. See "Item 3, Legal Proceedings" for additional information.


                                       20



       Premier is located in a geographic area subject to catastrophic storms,
and it may not be able to purchase sufficient insurance coverage at an
acceptable price. Subsequent to Hurricane Katrina, the availability of
catastrophic insurance coverage was reduced and premiums increased
significantly. If Premier is unable to purchase insurance coverage for
catastrophic losses, the Company could suffer a material loss from a hurricane.

        Premier, as a debtor-in-possession, must obtain bankruptcy court
approval for the conduct of its business and may not be successful in obtaining
approval for its plan of reorganization or in obtaining the necessary funds to
rebuild the Hard Rock Biloxi. If the bankruptcy court does not approve Premier's
plan of reorganization, or otherwise provide Premier with access to insurance
proceeds currently under the control of Premier's pre-petition bondholders in a
timely manner, Premier will not be able to repair and rebuild the Hard Rock
Biloxi or carry out its business plan in a timely manner, which would result in
losses for the Company.

        Premier could encounter problems during reconstruction that could
substantially increase the construction costs or delay the opening of the Hard
Rock Biloxi. Reconstruction projects like the Hard Rock Biloxi are subject to
significant development and construction risks, which can cause unanticipated
cost increases and delays. These include, among others, shortages of materials
and skilled labor; adverse weather which damages the project or causes delays;
delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and
approvals, including alcoholic beverage licensing and gaming commission
approval; changes in statutes, regulations, policies and agency interpretations
of laws applicable to gaming projects; changes to the plans or specifications
for Premier's rebuilding efforts; engineering problems; labor disputes and work
stoppages; environmental issues; fire, flooding and other natural disasters; and
geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems.

       Premier has no operating history or history of earnings and does not have
any experience developing or operating a gaming facility. Following
reconstruction, the Hard Rock Biloxi will be a new business and, accordingly,
will be subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new
business enterprise. If Premier is unable to manage these risks successfully, or
fail to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other
visitors to the Hard Rock Biloxi, it would negatively impact its operations.

       The right to operate the Hard Rock Biloxi is contingent upon governmental
approval. A revocation, suspension, limit or condition of Premier's gaming
licenses or registrations would result in a material adverse effect on its
business. If Premier's gaming licenses and/or registrations are revoked for any
reason, the Mississippi Gaming Commission could require us to close the Hard
Rock Biloxi. Failure to maintain such approvals could prevent or delay the
completion of reconstruction or opening of the Hard Rock Biloxi, or otherwise
affect the design and features of the operation of the Hard Rock Biloxi, all of
which could materially and adversely affect financial position and results of
operations.

       Delays in obtaining governmental authorizations could adversely affect
the profitability of our real estate development projects. Our real estate
development business requires numerous governmental approvals, licenses and
permits, which we must obtain before we can begin development and construction.
This approval process can be delayed by withdrawals or modifications of
preliminary approvals, by litigation and appeals challenging development rights
and by changes in prevailing local circumstances or applicable laws that may
require additional approvals. Adverse regulatory changes or failure to obtain
approvals could delay real estate development projects or make them more costly
to complete.

       Changes in mortgage interest rate levels or changes in consumer lending
practices could reduce consumer affordability and demand for some of our real
estate development projects. Certain of our real estate development projects are
dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential
homebuyers. Any significant increase in the prevailing low mortgage interest
rate environment or decrease in available credit could reduce consumer demand
for housing, which in turn could lead to fewer home sales or lower selling
prices.

       The Company's current and future investment in Sangart is subject to
certain regulatory risks and costs, as well as risks associated with the
operation of a new business without a proven track record. Sangart's clinical
trials are expensive and time consuming, and Sangart cannot be certain that the
results of its trials will be acceptable to the regulatory authorities or that
they won't be required to conduct new or expanded trials. Sangart's activities
are subject to extensive government regulation and Sangart cannot generate any
revenue without regulatory approval of its products. Even if regulatory
approvals are received, Sangart would be a new business and will be subject to
all of the risks inherent in establishing a new business, in addition to the
risks associated with establishing the appropriate infrastructure necessary to
operate and manage the commercial exploitation of Sangart's products.

       Sangart's Hemospan product is subject to competition from other products
under development. There are other companies developing products for the same
market that Sangart is targeting, and if they are successful in bringing their
product to market before Sangart it may significantly impair Sangart's ability
to compete in the same market segment.

                                       21


       Sangart's success depends on its ability to obtain, maintain and defend
patent protection for its products and technologies, preserve trade secrets and
operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. The
patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies, such as Sangart, are generally
uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If Sangart's
intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or
expire, or if Sangart fails to maintain its third-party intellectual property
licenses in good standing, its ability to successfully bring Hemospan to market
would be adversely affected. There can be no guarantee that any of Sangart's
pending patent applications will result in issued patents, or that any patents
issued to Sangart or its licensors will not be challenged, circumvented or
invalidated by third parties. If Sangart loses challenges to its intellectual
property it could incur monetary liabilities, be required to enter into
third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology (if available) or
be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute.

       A decrease in consumer spending or general increases in the cost of
living could adversely impact sales at our wineries. Our wineries primarily
produce and sell wines in the luxury segment of the premium table wine market,
and are significantly dependent on the level of consumer spending. Consumer
spending habits are influenced by a number of factors beyond our control,
including the general state of the economy, increases in the cost of living,
federal and state income tax rates, deductibility of business entertainment
expenses under federal and state law and consumer confidence in future economic
conditions.

        We could experience significant increases in operating costs due to
competition for qualified personnel in our operating businesses. Our inability
to attract and retain skilled personnel would make it difficult to compete and
operate efficiently. Many of our operating businesses require skilled management
and staff employees; we compete for their services with other companies.

        Our various businesses are dependent on the proper functioning of our
information systems. Additionally, we rely on our information systems in
managing our accounting and financial reporting. Hardware and software is
protected by various forms and levels of security, and certain of our
information technology functions have backup processing capabilities. However,
these systems are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss,
telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events.
In the event that critical information systems are unavailable, it could
temporarily impair our operations or our ability to maintain our accounting and
financial reporting effectively.

        We face intense competition in the operation of our businesses. The
industries in which we operate are highly competitive. There are numerous
competitors who operate in our markets, many of which have advantages over us,
such as more favorable locations, greater financial and other resources and may
be more established in their respective communities than we are. Competitors may
offer newer or different products or services that our customers may find more
attractive.

        We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully
realize our deferred tax asset. We and certain of our subsidiaries have
significant net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs") and other tax attributes.
At December 31, 2006, we have recognized a deferred tax asset of $991,900,000 in
respect of these tax attributes. If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable
income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the deferred
tax asset.

        Weather related conditions and significant natural disasters, including
hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes and hailstorms could adversely
affect our business. The occurrence of natural disasters may impact our
wineries, real estate holdings, manufacturing and gaming operations, interfere
with our ability to obtain raw materials, sell our products and provide service
or realize income from our operations. Any shortage of reliable water and energy
resources or a drop in consumer confidence in the dependability of such
resources in areas where we operate or own land may adversely affect our
business operations, the values of our properties and/or result in government
restrictions that curtail operations.

                                       22



        We may not be able to insure certain risks economically. We may
experience economic harm if any damage to our properties is not covered by
insurance. We cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we
desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be
financially viable if we make a claim. We may suffer losses that are not covered
under our insurance or reinsurance policies. If an uninsured loss or a loss in
excess of insured limits should occur, results of operations could be adversely
affected.

        We may reduce or cease to pay dividends on our common shares. On a split
adjusted basis, we paid cash dividends of $0.25 per common share in 2006 and
$.125 per common share in 2005 and 2004. However, we cannot assure you that we
will pay dividends on our common shares in the future or, if we do, the amount
of such dividends. The payment of dividends on our common shares in the future
is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon
general business conditions, the availability of our NOLs, legal and contractual
restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that our Board of
Directors may deem to be relevant. In connection with the declaration of
dividends or the making of distributions on, or the purchase, redemption or
other acquisition of our common shares, we are required to comply with certain
restrictions contained in certain of our debt instruments.

       Our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions. We and certain of
our subsidiaries have significant NOLs and other tax attributes, the amount and
availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and
uncertainties. In order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in
ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our
certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the
ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through
attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the
ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from
acquiring additional common shares. The restriction will remain until the
earliest of (a) December 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal
Revenue Code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of
our taxable year to which these tax attributes may no longer be carried forward.
The restriction may be waived by our Board of Directors. Shareholders are
advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult
their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our
common shares approaches the proscribed level.

Item 1B