Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Recent legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect Jefferies business.”

Net Capital Requirements. U.S. registered broker-dealers are subject to the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule (the “Net Capital Rule”), which specifies minimum net capital requirements. Jefferies Group LLC is not a registered broker-dealer and is therefore not subject to the Net Capital Rule; however, its U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Jefferies and Jefferies Execution Services, Inc. (“Jefferies Execution”), are registered broker-dealers and are subject to the Net Capital Rule. Jefferies and Jefferies Execution have elected to compute their minimum net capital requirement in accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital Requirement” as permitted by the Net Capital Rule, which provides that a broker-dealer shall not permit its net capital, as defined, to be less than the greater of 2% of its aggregate debit balances (primarily customer-related receivables) or $250,000 ($1.5 million for prime brokers). Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit operations of our broker-dealers, such as underwriting and trading activities, that require the use of significant amounts of capital, and may also restrict their ability to make loans, advances, dividends and other payments.

 

U.S. registered FCMs are subject to the CFTC’s minimum financial requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers. Jefferies Group LLC is not a registered FCM or a registered Introducing Broker, and is therefore not subject to the CFTC’s minimum financial requirements; however, Jefferies is registered as a FCM following its merger with Jefferies Bache, LLC in September 2014 and is therefore subject to the minimum financial requirements. Under the minimum financial requirements, an FCM must maintain adjusted net capital equal to or in excess of the greater of (A) $1,000,000 or (B) the FCM’s risk-based capital requirements totaling (1) eight percent of the total risk margin requirement for positions carried by the FCM in customer accounts, plus (2) eight percent of the total risk margin requirement for positions carried by the FCM in noncustomer accounts. An FCM’s ability to make capital and certain other distributions is subject to the rules and regulations of various exchanges, clearing organizations and other regulatory agencies which may have capital requirements that are greater than the CFTC’s. Jefferies, as a dually registered broker-dealer and FCM, is required to maintain net capital in excess of the greater of the SEC or CFTC minimum financial requirements.

Jefferies subsidiaries that are registered swap dealers will become subject to capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act once they become final. For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Recent legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect Jefferies business.”

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 27 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on net capital calculations.

Regulation outside the United States. Jefferies is an active participant in the international capital markets, engaging in commodity futures brokerage and providing investment banking services internationally, but primarily in Europe and Asia. As is true in the U.S., Jefferies subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations promulgated and enforced by, among other regulatory bodies, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Japan Financial Services Agency and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Every country in which Jefferies does business imposes upon us laws, rules and regulations similar to those in the U.S., including with respect to some form of capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery rules, compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations and similar regulatory reform. For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Extensive international regulation of Jefferies business limits its activities, and, if Jefferies violate these regulations, it may be subject to significant penalties.”





5




Leucadia Asset Management




During 2013, we formed Leucadia Asset Management (“LAM”), a registered investment advisor, through which we are seeding and developing focused funds managed by distinct management teams.  These include Topwater Capital, a first-loss hedge fund; Global Equity Events Opportunity Fund, based on event driven strategies; Mazama Capital Management, a long-only growth equity fund manager; as well as our investment in Structured Alpha, a fund based on quantitative strategies.  Our asset management strategies also include Folger Hill, a multi-manager hedge fund platform, which is in the process of launching its fund.




As the advisor and/or general partner to various private investment funds or other types of investment vehicles, LAM provides advisory, portfolio management and operational services to accredited investors and/or qualified purchasers.  Once an investment vehicle is formed, it is expected that one of our subsidiaries will be an initial or major investor.  LAM receives compensation in the form of management fees and/or a performance fee based on investment returns generated for the investors.




HomeFed Corporation




HomeFed Corporation is a developer and owner of residential and commercial real estate properties in California, Virginia, South Carolina, Florida, Maine and New York.  HomeFed also investigates the acquisition of new real estate projects outside of its core geographical areas.  HomeFed is a public company traded on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board (Symbol: HOFD).  As a result of the 2014 transaction discussed above, we own 65% of HomeFed’s common stock; however, our voting rights are limited such that we are not able to vote more than 45% of HomeFed’s total voting securities voting on any matter.  Resulting from a 1998 distribution to all of our shareholders, about 4.8% of HomeFed is beneficially owned by our Chairman, who also serves as HomeFed’s Chairman.  Our President is a Director of HomeFed.

At December 31, 2014, our investment had a net book value of $236.6 million and we report HomeFed as an equity investment in our financial statements.  HomeFed’s strategic priorities vary by development project, ranging from pursuing further planning, entitlement and approval, to beginning construction, commencing sales, and taking other steps to maximize profits.  HomeFed also continues to look for new opportunities both within, and outside of, the areas where it currently has projects under development.




Berkadia




Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, and its associated entities, comprise a commercial mortgage banking and servicing joint venture formed in 2009 with Berkshire Hathaway.  We and Berkshire Hathaway each have a 50% equity interest in Berkadia.  Berkadia has 3 primary business activities: mortgage banking, investment sales and servicing.




Berkadia originates commercial/multifamily real estate loans for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and the FHA using their underwriting guidelines, and will typically sell the loan to such entities shortly after it is funded.  Provided Berkadia adheres to their guidelines, these government-related entities must purchase the loan at the face amount plus accrued interest with Berkadia retaining the mortgage servicing rights.  In addition, as a condition to Fannie Mae’s delegation of responsibility for underwriting, originating and servicing of loans, Berkadia assumes a shared loss position throughout the term of each loan sold to Fannie Mae, with a maximum loss percentage of approximately one-third of the original principal balance. During 2014, Berkadia originated $8.9 billion in Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and FHA loans.  Berkadia also originates and brokers commercial/multifamily mortgage loans which are not part of the government agency programs.  During 2014, Berkadia closed $3.6 billion of loans in this capacity for life companies, conduits and other third-parties.




In addition, Berkadia originates loans for its own balance sheet. These loans provide interim financing to borrowers who intend to refinance the loan with longer-term loans from an eligible government agency or other third party (“Bridge loans”).  Bridge loans are typically floating rate loans with 1 to 3 year maturities. During 2014, Berkadia originated $311.9 million of such loans and held $566.8 million on its balance sheet at December 31, 2014.




Berkadia also provides a unified, national sales and investment platform that is currently focused exclusively on the multifamily industry. This business provides services related to the acquisition and disposition of multifamily real estate projects, including brokerage services, asset review, market research, financial analysis and due diligence support.  During 2014, Berkadia closed over $4.0 billion in sales transactions.




Berkadia is a servicer of commercial real estate loans in the U.S., performing primary, master and special servicing functions for U.S. government agency programs, commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions (“CMBS”), banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions.  Berkadia is an approved servicer of loans for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and the FHA.  As of December 31, 2014, Berkadia serviced approximately 26,000 loans with an unpaid principal balance of $238.4 billion.




As a servicer, Berkadia is frequently responsible for managing, on behalf of its investors and borrowers, the balances that are maintained in custodial accounts for the purposes of collecting and distributing principal and interest, and for managing and disbursing various reserve accounts related to the mortgaged properties among other things.  Berkadia derives certain economic benefits from administering these custodial accounts.  Such balances totaled in excess of $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2014.




Our only capital contribution to Berkadia, in the amount of $217.2 million, was made at the time Berkadia was formed in 2009.  Through December 31, 2014 we have received cumulative cash distributions of $303.8 million.  At December 31, 2014, the net book value of our investment in Berkadia was $208.5 million, and we report Berkadia as an equity investment in our financial statements.  Our strategic priorities include continued value creation by growing origination volume and expanding servicing engagements with third parties.




Berkadia is required under its servicing agreements to maintain certain minimum servicer ratings or qualifications from the rating agencies.  A downgrade below a certain level may give rise to the right of a customer or trustee of a securitized transaction to terminate Berkadia as servicer.  Berkadia currently maintains approvals or ratings from Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, Standard & Poor’s, Morningstar Credit Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Services.  These ratings currently exceed the minimum ratings required by the related servicing agreements.  Ratings issued by the rating agencies can be withdrawn or lowered at any time.  In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac retain broad discretion to terminate Berkadia as a seller/servicer without cause.





6










Merchant Banking







The following provides more information about certain of our other subsidiaries and investments and our ownership percentages, including:





·


National Beef, 79% (beef processing);









·


Harbinger, 23% (diversified holding company);









·


Vitesse Energy, 96% (oil and gas exploration and development);









·


Juneau Energy, 98% (oil and gas exploration and development);









·


Linkem, 55% fully-diluted (42% voting) (fixed wireless broadband services);









·


Conwed Plastics, 100% (manufacturing);









·


Idaho Timber, 100% (manufacturing);









·


Garcadia, about 74% (automobile dealerships); and









·


Golden Queen, 34% (a gold and silver mining project).








National Beef




National Beef Packing Company, LLC is one of the largest beef processing companies in the U.S., accounting for approximately 13% of the market.  National Beef processes and markets fresh boxed beef, case-ready beef, beef by-products and wet blue leather for domestic and international markets.  Based in Kansas City, Missouri, National Beef had about 8,000 employees at December 31, 2014 and generated total revenues of $7.8 billion in 2014.  We purchased National Beef in 2011 and own 78.9%.




The largest share of National Beef’s revenue, about 89%, is generated from the sale of fresh and chilled boxed beef products.  National Beef also generates revenues through value-added production with its case-ready products.  In addition, National Beef operates a wet blue tanning facility (wet blue tanning refers to the first step in processing raw and brine-cured hides into tanned leather), selling processed hides to tanners that produce finished leather for the automotive, luxury goods, apparel and furniture industries.  Other streams of revenue include sales through its subsidiary,  Kansas City Steak Company, LLC, which sells portioned beef and other products to customers in the food service and retail channels, as well as direct to consumers through internet and direct mail, and service revenues generated by National Carriers, Inc., a wholly owned truck fleet that is one of the largest refrigerated and livestock carrier operations in the U.S. and transports products for National Beef and a variety of other customers.




The net book value of our investment in National Beef was $796.4 million at December 31, 2014.




Sales and Marketing




National Beef markets its products to national and regional retailers, including supermarket chains, independent grocers, club stores, wholesalers and distributors, food service providers and distributors, further processors and the United States military.  In addition, National Beef sells beef by-products to the variety meat, feed processing, fertilizer and pet food industries.  National Beef exports products to more than 25 countries; in 2014 export sales represented approximately 12% of revenues.  The demand for beef is generally strongest in the spring and summer months and generally decreases during the winter months.




National Beef emphasizes the sale of higher-margin, value-added products, which include branded boxed beef, consumer-ready beef, portion control beef and wet blue hides.  National Beef believes its value-added products can command higher prices than commodity products because of National Beef’s ability to consistently meet product specifications, based on quality, trim, weight, size, breed or other factors, tailored to the needs of its customers.  In addition to the value-added brands that National Beef owns, National Beef licenses the use of Certified Angus Beef®, a registered trademark of Certified Angus Beef LLC, and Certified Hereford Beef®, a registered trademark of Certified Hereford Beef LLC.





7










Raw Materials and Procurement




The primary raw material for the beef processing plants is live cattle. The domestic beef industry is characterized by cattle prices that change daily based on seasonal consumption patterns, supply and demand for beef and other proteins, cattle inventory levels, weather and other factors.




National Beef has entered into a cattle supply agreement with U.S. Premium Beef, LLC (“USPB”), the current owner of a 15.1% interest in National Beef, which sold a substantial portion of its ownership interest to us.  USPB has agreed to supply, and National Beef has agreed to purchase through USPB from the members of USPB, 735,385 head of cattle per year (subject to adjustment), based on pricing grids furnished by National Beef to USPB.  National Beef believes the pricing grids are based on terms that could be obtained from an unaffiliated party.  The cattle supply agreement extends through December 31, 2017, with automatic, but optional one year extensions.  During 2014, National Beef purchased approximately 23% of the total cattle it processed from USPB members pursuant to the cattle supply agreement.  National Beef also purchased additional cattle from certain USPB members outside of the cattle supply agreement as well as from hundreds of other cattle suppliers.

 

Processing Facilities




National Beef owns two beef processing facilities located in Liberal and Dodge City, Kansas, which can each process approximately 6,000 cattle per day.  National Beef’s three consumer-ready facilities are in Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania, Moultrie, Georgia and Kansas City, Kansas.  National Beef’s wet blue tanning facility is in St. Joseph, Missouri.




Competition

 

Competitive conditions exist both in the purchase of live cattle, as well as in the sale of beef products.  Beef products compete with other protein sources, including pork and poultry, but National Beef’s principal competition comes from other beef processors.  National Beef believes the principal competitive factors in the beef processing industry are price, quality, food safety, customer service, product distribution, technological innovations (such as food safety interventions and packaging technologies) and brand loyalty.  Some of National Beef’s competitors have substantially larger beef operations, greater financial and other resources and wider brand recognition for their products.

 

Regulation and Environmental

 

National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by the USDA including its Food Safety and Inspection Service (“FSIS”) and its Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (“GIPSA”), the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and other federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, safety, distribution, advertising and labeling of its products.

 

National Beef is subject to the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921 (“PSA”).  Among other things, this statute generally requires National Beef to make full payment for livestock purchases not later than the close of business the day after the purchase and transfer of possession or determination of the purchase price.  Under the PSA, National Beef must hold in trust for the benefit of unpaid livestock suppliers all livestock purchased until the sellers have received full payment.  At December 31, 2014, National Beef has obtained from an insurance company a surety bond in the amount of $49.4 million to satisfy these requirements.

 

The Dodge City and Liberal facilities are subject to Title V permitting pursuant to the Federal Clean Air Act and the Kansas Air Quality Act.  The St. Joseph facility is subject to a secondary air permit which is in place.  The Dodge City, Liberal, Hummels Wharf and Moultrie facilities are subject to Clean Air Act Risk Management Plan requirements relating to the use of ammonia as a refrigerant.

 

All of National Beef’s plants are indirect dischargers of wastewater to publicly owned treatment works and are subject to requirements under the federal Clean Water Act, state and municipal laws, as well as agreements or permits with municipal or county authorities.  Upon renewal of these agreements and permits, National Beef is from time to time required to make capital expenditures to upgrade or expand wastewater treatment facilities to address new and more stringent discharge requirements imposed at the time of renewal.  Storm water discharges from National Beef’s plants are also regulated by state and local authorities.

 

All of National Beef’s facilities generate solid waste streams including small quantities of hazardous wastes.  National Beef is subject to laws that provide for strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several liability for remediation of hazardous substances at contaminated sites; however, National Beef has not received any demands that it has any liability at sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund”) or state counterparts.  All plants are subject to community right to know reporting requirements under the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which requires yearly filings as to the substances used on facility premises.

 

 


8




Employees

 

Of National Beef’s 8,000 employees, about 5,500 are represented by collective bargaining agreements.  About 2,600 employees at the Liberal plant are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in December 2017, 2,700 employees at the Dodge City plant are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in December 2016, and another 178 employees at the St. Joseph plant are represented by the United Cereal Workers ( R.W.D.S.U./U.F.C.W) under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in June 2019.




Harbinger




Harbinger Group Inc. is a publicly traded diversified holding company, the principal holdings of which are: (i) Spectrum Brands, its 59% owned subsidiary that provides global branded consumer products; (ii) FGL, its 80% owned subsidiary that provides life insurance and annuity products; (iii) Front Street, its subsidiary engaged in the business of providing long-term reinsurance, including reinsurance to the specialty insurance sector of fixed, deferred and payout annuities; (iv) HGI Asset Management Holdings, LLC, which, through its subsidiaries, provides financing and engages in asset management across a range of industries; and (v) Compass, its wholly-owned subsidiary that is engaged in the business of owning, operating, acquiring, exploiting and developing conventional oil and natural gas assets.  Harbinger is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HRG.”




As of December 31, 2014, we own about 46.6 million common shares of Harbinger, representing about 23% of its outstanding common shares, which we reflect in our financial results at fair value.  In addition, we have two directors on Harbinger’s board, one of whom serves as its Chairman.  We have agreed not to increase our interest in Harbinger above 27.5% through March 17, 2016.  At December 31, 2014, the net book value of our holdings in Harbinger is $659.9 million and our cost was $475.6 million.




Vitesse Energy




During May 2014, we formed Vitesse Energy, LLC, a non-operating owner of oil and gas properties in the core of the Bakken field.  We own 96% of Vitesse, which acquires producing and undeveloped leasehold properties in North Dakota and Montana, and converts the undeveloped leasehold into cash flow producing assets.  Vitesse has acquired 22,500 net acres of Bakken leasehold and has an interest in 866 producing wells (22 net wells) and 350 gross wells (9 net wells) that are currently drilling or permitted for drilling.




At December 31, 2014, we have made cumulative cash investments of $239.0 million and our net book value is $246.5 million.  Our strategic priorities for Vitesse are to add to our desired core acreage, increase cash flow from new well development over the next 10 years, and selectively sell assets when appropriate.




Juneau Energy




During February 2014, we made our first investment in Juneau Energy, LLC.  Juneau leases and develops oil and gas properties in Texas and Oklahoma.   We own 98% of Juneau, which engages in the exploration, development and production of oil and gas from onshore, unconventional resource areas.  Juneau has about 56,900 net acres of East Texas leasehold.  At December 31, 2014, we have made cumulative cash contributions of $184.2 million and our net book value is $175.8 million.  Our strategic priorities include using our in-house geological and engineering expertise to generate a compelling return, even at lower prices, and to develop a diversified portfolio of quality assets that can grow production and cash flow in the future.

 


  


9







Linkem




Linkem S.p.A is a fixed wireless broadband service provider in Italy.  In 2008, Linkem acquired wireless spectrum licenses in the 3.5GHz band and launched Italy’s first commercial 4G wireless service.  Unlike the U.S. and most of Western Europe, Italy does not have a national cable television system; as a result, Italy’s broadband penetration rate is among the lowest in Europe, and the vast majority of residential broadband service is DSL, which relies on legacy copper telephone lines.  Linkem offers residential broadband services at speeds equal to or faster than DSL, but priced at a discount.

 

Our initial investment in Linkem was made in July 2011.  Since that time, we have funded most of Linkem’s growth and become its largest shareholder.  We own about 42% of Linkem’s common shares and hold a 5% convertible note with a principal amount of €72.7 million due in 2018 (interest can be paid in cash or in kind).  On an if-converted basis, we would own 55% of the common shares of Linkem.

 

Linkem owns or has exclusive rights to spectrum holdings of 84MHz covering approximately 80% of the population and at least 42MHz covering all of Italy.  Linkem has signed agreements with several large telecommunication companies for the use of their infrastructure, providing Linkem access to over 30,000 wireless towers throughout Italy.  At December 31, 2014, Linkem’s network includes base stations deployed on over 1,035 wireless towers that can reach over 35% of the population.  Linkem has over 240,000 subscribers for its services.   Linkem plans to increase its network coverage across Italy over the coming years as it adds subscribers; expansion and customer acquisition costs are expected to result in operating losses over the next few years. 

 

Linkem has begun to migrate its technology from WiMAX to LTE, which will provide subscribers with faster download speeds and improved service.  Linkem completed its LTE trials and commenced commercial deployment in the first week of December 2014.  In 2015, Linkem plans to deploy 400 new LTE base stations with significantly more LTE antennas overlayed on existing base stations.

 

At December 31, 2014, we have made cumulative cash investments of $238.1 million and our net book value is $159.1 million. 







Conwed Plastics




Conwed Plastics manufactures and markets lightweight plastic netting used for building and construction, erosion and sediment control, packaging, agricultural purposes, carpet padding, filtration, consumer products and other purposes.  These products are primarily used for containment purposes, reinforcement of other products, packaging for produce and meats, various types of filtration and erosion prevention.




In March 2014, Conwed acquired 80% of Filtrexx, previously a significant customer.  Filtrexx uses Conwed netting products to provide erosion control solutions with primary applications in oil and gas development, civil infrastructure, and commercial and residential construction.  In August 2014, Conwed acquired 100% of Weaver Express, the leading installer of the products manufactured by Filtrexx.




As of December 31, 2014, we have owned Conwed for thirty years and received cash distributions of $149.6 million in excess of our investments.  At December 31, 2014, the net book value of our investment in Conwed was $109.2 million.  Our strategic priorities include further development of the business created by the Filtrexx and Weaver acquisitions and expansion of the products, markets and applications for Conwed’s core technology.




Our plastic products are marketed both domestically and internationally, with approximately 17% of 2014 revenues generated by customers from Europe, Latin America, Japan and Australia.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Minnesota, Georgia, Illinois, Virginia and Genk, Belgium (totaling approximately 689,000 square feet).  The average cost of the principal raw material used in its products, polypropylene, has increased by approximately 75% since 2009, a continuing trend that started in 2002.  The price of polypropylene has historically fluctuated with the price of oil and natural gas but growing economies in China and India have resulted in increased demand for raw materials and raised prices globally.





10










Idaho Timber




Idaho Timber is a nationally recognized company in the forest products industry, providing an extensive range of quality wood products to markets across North America and the Pacific Rim.  Idaho Timber manufactures and distributes various wood products, including:  remanufacturing dimension lumber; remanufacturing, bundling and bar coding of home center boards for large retailers; and production of pine dimension lumber and 5/4” radius-edge, pine decking.  In addition to its headquarters in Meridian, Idaho, Idaho Timber has plants in Idaho, Arkansas, Florida, Louisiana, New Mexico, North Carolina and Texas.




For the year ended December 31, 2014, Idaho Timber had revenues of $251.6 million and pre-tax income of $17.8 million.  The net book value of our investment was $71.7 million at December 31, 2014.







Garcadia




Garcadia is a joint venture between us and Garff Enterprises, Inc. that owns and operates 26 automobile dealerships comprised of domestic and foreign automobile makers.  The Garcadia joint venture agreement specifies that we and Garff shall have equal board representation and equal votes on all matters affecting Garcadia, and that all cash flows from Garcadia will be allocated 65% to us and 35% to Garff, with the exception of one dealership from which we receive 83% of all cash flows and five other dealerships from which we receive 71% of all cash flows.  Garcadia’s strategy is to acquire automobile dealerships in primary or secondary market locations meeting its specified return criteria.  During 2014 we received cash distributions from our dealerships of $41.4 million.




In addition, we own the land for certain dealerships and lease it to the dealerships.  During 2014 we received rent payments related to these leases of $8.5 million.   At December 31, 2014, the net book value of our investment in Garcadia was $167.9 million and was $15.5 million for our land leased to the dealerships.







Golden Queen Mining Company




The Golden Queen Mining Company LLC (“Golden Queen”) is a joint venture between Golden Queen Mining Co., Ltd. (“GQM”) and Gauss LLC, a newly formed limited liability company.  Golden Queen is developing the Soledad Mountain Project, a fully-permitted, open pit, heap leach gold and silver project located in Kern County, California.  The Project will use conventional open pit mining methods, cyanide heap leach and Merrill-Crowe processes to recover gold and silver from crushed, agglomerated ore.  Construction has started on the site and commissioning is planned for late 2015.  GQM is a Canadian company that has been developing and exploring its mineral properties at Soledad Mountain since 1985.  GQM is publicly traded on both the Toronto Stock Exchange (“GQM”) and on the OTCQX International (“GQMNF”).




In September 2014, we invested $70.9 million, net in cash in Gauss LLC to partner with GQM and the Clay family, GQM’s largest shareholder, to jointly fund, develop and operate the Project.  In exchange for a noncontrolling ownership interest in Gauss LLC, the Clay family contributed $34.1 million, net in cash. Gauss LLC invested both our and the Clay family’s net contributions totaling $105 million to the joint venture, Golden Queen, in exchange for a 50% ownership interest. GQM contributed the Soledad Mountain project to the joint venture in exchange for the other 50% interest.




We have committed to invest during the nine months after our initial investment up to an additional approximately $27 million to fully develop the project.  Our maximum exposure to loss as a result of our involvement with the joint venture is limited to our investment and this additional commitment.  The net book value of our investment was $69.9 million at December 31, 2014.

 


  


11







Financial Information about Segments




Our operating segments consist of the consolidated businesses discussed above, which offer different products and services and are managed separately.  Our reportable segments, based on both qualitative and quantitative requirements, are Jefferies, National Beef, and Corporate and other.  Our all other businesses and investments consists of our Other Financial Services Businesses and our Other Merchant Banking Businesses.  Other Financial Services Businesses consists of asset management and our specialty finance companies; our commercial mortgage banking investment and our investment in HomeFed are reflected as Income from Associated Companies.  Other Merchant Banking Businesses consists of manufacturing, oil and gas exploration and production, real estate, our investment in a diversified holding company, and, for periods prior to their spin-off to shareholders in February 2013, our wineries; our investment in fixed wireless services in Italy, automobile dealerships, and a gold and silver mining operation are reflected as Income from Associated Companies.  Our financial information regarding our reportable segments is contained in Note 31, in our consolidated financial statements.




Information about Leucadia on the Internet




The following documents and reports are available on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish to, the SEC:

 •   Code of Business Practice;

 •   Reportable waivers, if any, from our Code of Business Practice by our executive officers;

 •   Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines;

 •   Charter of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors;

 •   Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors;

 •   Charter of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors;

 •   Annual reports on Form 10-K;

 •   Quarterly reports on Form 10-Q;

 •   Current reports on Form 8-K;

 •   Beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5; and

 •   Any amendments to the above-mentioned documents and reports.




Shareholders may also obtain a printed copy of any of these documents or reports free of charge by sending a request to Leucadia National Corporation, Investor Relations, 520 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 or by calling 212-460-1900.




Item 1A.                          Risk Factors.




Our business is subject to a number of risks.  You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common shares.  The risks set out below are not the only risks we face.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.




Future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments are possible, changing the components of our assets and liabilities, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares.  Any future acquisitions or dispositions may result in significant changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities.  Consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may be affected by factors different from those affecting our financial condition, results of operations and trading price at the present time.




We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we expand our business.  We expect the growth of our business to come primarily from internal expansion and through acquisitions and strategic partnering.  As we expand our business, there can be no assurance that financial controls, the level and knowledge of personnel, operational abilities, legal and compliance controls and other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and growth.  The ineffectiveness of any of these controls or systems could adversely affect our business and prospects.  In addition, if we acquire new businesses and introduce new products, we face numerous risks and uncertainties integrating their controls and systems, including financial controls, accounting and data processing systems, management controls and other operations.  A failure to integrate these systems and controls, and even an inefficient integration of these systems and controls, could adversely affect our business and prospects.




Certain business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring Jefferies into contact directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within its traditional client and counterparty base and may expose Jefferies to new asset classes and new markets.  These business activities expose Jefferies to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.

 


  


12




Recent legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect Jefferies business.  In recent years, there has been significant legislation and increased regulation affecting the financial services industry.  These legislative and regulatory initiatives affect not only Jefferies, but also its competitors and certain of its clients.  These changes could have an effect on Jefferies revenue and profitability, limit Jefferies ability to pursue certain business opportunities, impact the value of assets that it holds, require Jefferies to change certain business practices, impose additional costs on Jefferies and otherwise adversely affect its business.  Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that legislation and regulation will not eventually have an adverse effect on Jefferies business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.




Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations adopted and to be adopted by the SEC and CFTC introduce a comprehensive regulatory regime for swaps and security-based swaps and parties that deal in such swaps and security-based swaps.  Jefferies has registered three of its subsidiaries as swap dealers with the CFTC and the NFA and may register one or more subsidiaries as security-based swap dealers with the SEC.  The new laws and regulations will subject certain swaps and security-based swaps to clearing and exchange trading requirements and will subject swap dealers and security-based swap dealers to significant new burdens, including (i) capital and margin requirements, (ii) reporting, recordkeeping and internal business conduct requirements, (iii) external business conduct requirements in dealings with swap counterparties (which are particularly onerous when the counterparty is a special entity such as a federal, state, or municipal entity, an ERISA plan, a government employee benefit plan or an endowment), and (iv) large trader position reporting and certain position limit requirements.  The final rules under Title VII, including those rules that have already been adopted, for both cleared and uncleared swap transactions will impose increased capital and margin requirements on Jefferies registered entities and require additional operational and compliance costs and resources that will likely affect Jefferies business.

 

Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (Volcker Rule) limits certain proprietary trading by banking entities such as banks, bank holding companies and similar institutions.  Although Jefferies is not a banking entity and is not otherwise subject to these rules, some of Jefferies clients and many of Jefferies counterparties are banks or entities affiliated with banks and are subject to these restrictions.  These sections of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations that are adopted to implement them could negatively affect the swaps and securities markets by reducing their depth and liquidity and thereby affect pricing in these markets.  Other negative effects could result from an expansive extraterritorial application of the Dodd-Frank Act in general or the Volcker Rule in particular and/or insufficient international coordination with respect to adoption of rules for derivatives and other financial reforms in other jurisdictions.  We will not know the exact impact that these changes in the markets will have on Jefferies business until after the final rules are implemented.




The Dodd-Frank Act, in addressing systemic risks to the financial system, charges the Federal Reserve with drafting enhanced regulatory requirements for systemically important bank holding companies and certain other nonbank financial companies designated as systemically important by the Financial Stability Oversight Council.  The enhanced requirements proposed by the Federal Reserve include capital requirements, liquidity requirements, limits on credit exposure concentrations and risk management requirements.  We do not believe that Jefferies will be deemed to be a systemically important nonbank financial company under the new legislation and therefore will not be directly impacted.  However, there will be an indirect impact to Jefferies to the extent that the new regulations apply to its competitors, counterparties and certain of its clients.




Extensive international regulation of Jefferies business limits its activities, and, if Jefferies violates these regulations, it may be subject to significant penalties.  The financial services industry is subject to extensive laws, rules and regulations in every country in which Jefferies operates.  Firms that engage in securities and derivatives trading, commodity futures brokerage, wealth and asset management and investment banking must comply with the laws, rules and regulations imposed by national and state governments and regulatory and self-regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over such activities.  Such laws, rules and regulations cover all aspects of the financial services business, including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and corruption efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.




Each of Jefferies regulators supervises its business activities to monitor compliance with such laws, rules and regulations in the relevant jurisdiction.  In addition, if there are instances in which Jefferies regulators question its compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, they may investigate the facts and circumstances to determine whether Jefferies has complied.  At any moment in time, Jefferies may be subject to one or more such investigation or similar reviews.  At this time, all such investigations and similar reviews are insignificant in scope and immaterial to Jefferies.  However, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the operations of Jefferies businesses will not violate such laws, rules, or regulations and that related investigations and similar reviews could result in adverse regulatory requirements, regulatory enforcement actions and/or fines.




The European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) was enacted in August 2012 and, in common with the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S., is intended, among other things, to reduce counterparty risk by requiring standardized over-the-counter derivatives be cleared through a central counterparty and reported to registered trade repositories. EMIR is being introduced in phases in the U.K., with implementation of additional requirements expected through 2019.  Likewise, the amendments to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the Market Abuse Regulation and new Market Abuse Directive (“MAD 2”) both in response to recommendations from the European Commission following the financial crisis are likely to impact Jefferies business when they come into force during 2016.  The European Commission’s changes to the Capital Requirements Directive (“CRD”) comprising CRD IV and the Capital Requirements Regulation (“CRR”) became effective January 1, 2014.




Additional legislation, changes in rules, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, or the entering into businesses that subject Jefferies to new rules and regulations may directly affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.  Jefferies continues to monitor the impact of new European regulation on its businesses.

 


  


13




Changing conditions in financial markets and the economy could impact Jefferies through decreased revenues, losses or other adverse consequences.  As a global securities and investment banking firm, global or regional changes in the financial markets or economic conditions could adversely affect Jefferies business in many ways, including the following:








·


A market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions executed for customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues Jefferies receives from commissions and spreads.









·


Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of transactions in which Jefferies provides underwriting, financial advisory and other services.  Jefferies investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and sales and trading or placement fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which Jefferies participates and could therefore be adversely affected by unfavorable financial or economic conditions.









·


Adverse changes in the market could lead to losses from principal transactions on Jefferies inventory positions.









·


Adverse changes in the market could also lead to a reduction in revenues from asset management fees and investment income from managed funds and losses on Jefferies own capital invested in managed funds. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by Jefferies funds and portfolio managers could reduce asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors.









·


Limitations on the availability of credit, such as occurred during 2008, can affect Jefferies ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect Jefferies liquidity and results of operations.









·


New or increased taxes on compensation payments such as bonuses or on balance sheet items may adversely affect Jefferies profits.









·


Should one of Jefferies customers or competitors fail, Jefferies business prospects and revenue could be negatively impacted due to negative market sentiment causing customers to cease doing business with Jefferies and Jefferies lenders to cease loaning Jefferies money, which could adversely affect its business, funding and liquidity.








 

Unfounded allegations about Jefferies could result in extreme price volatility and price declines in its debt securities and loss of revenue, clients, and employees.  Jefferies reputation and business activity can be affected by statements and actions of third parties, even false or misleading statements by them.  While Jefferies has been able to dispel such rumors in the past, its debt-securities prices suffered not only extreme volatility but also record high yields.  In addition, Jefferies operations in the past have been impacted as some clients either ceased doing business or temporarily slowed down the level of business they do, thereby decreasing Jefferies revenue stream.  Although Jefferies was able to reverse the negative impact of such unfounded allegations and false rumors, there is no assurance that Jefferies will be able to do so successfully in the future and the potential failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Jefferies business, financial condition and liquidity.

 


  


14







A credit rating agency downgrade could significantly impact our and Jefferies businesses.  We and Jefferies have credit ratings issued by various credit rating agencies.  Maintaining our credit ratings is important to our and Jefferies business and financial condition.  We advised certain credit rating agencies that we would target specific concentration, leverage and liquidity principles, expressed in the form of certain ratios and percentages.  Our failure to meet these ratios and percentages may trigger a ratings downgrade.  We and Jefferies intend to access capital markets and issue debt securities from time to time, and a ratings downgrade may decrease demand for such offered security.  A decrease in demand would not only make a successful financing more difficult, but also increase our respective capital costs.  Similarly, our and Jefferies access to other forms of credit may be limited and our respective borrowing costs may increase if our or Jefferies credit ratings are downgraded.  A downgrade could also negatively impact our and Jefferies outstanding debt prices and our stock price.  In addition, in connection with certain over-the-counter derivative contract arrangements and certain other trading arrangements, a ratings downgrade could cause us or Jefferies to provide additional collateral to counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations which would negatively impact our and Jefferies liquidity and financial condition.  There can be no assurance that our or Jefferies credit ratings will not be downgraded.




Jefferies principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss.  A considerable portion of Jefferies revenues is derived from trading in which Jefferies acts as principal.  Jefferies may incur trading losses relating to the purchase, sale or short sale of fixed income, high yield, international, convertible, and equity securities and futures and commodities for its own account.  In any period, Jefferies may experience losses on its inventory positions as a result of price fluctuations, lack of trading volume, and illiquidity.  From time to time, Jefferies may engage in a large block trade in a single security or maintain large position concentrations in a single security, securities of a single issuer, securities of issuers engaged in a specific industry, or securities from issuers located in a particular country or region.  In general, because Jefferies inventory is marked to market on a daily basis, any adverse price movement in these securities could result in a reduction of Jefferies revenues and profits.  In addition, Jefferies may engage in hedging transactions that if not successful, could result in losses.




Increased competition may adversely affect Jefferies revenues, profitability and staffing.  All aspects of Jefferies business are intensely competitive.  Jefferies competes directly with a number of bank holding companies and commercial banks, other brokers and dealers, investment banking firms and other financial institutions.  In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increasing competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations.  Jefferies believes that the principal factors affecting competition involve market focus, reputation, the abilities of professional personnel, the ability to execute the transaction, relative price of the service and products being offered, bundling of products and services and the quality of service.  Increased competition or an adverse change in Jefferies competitive position could lead to a reduction of business and therefore a reduction of revenues and profits.




Competition also extends to the hiring and retention of highly skilled employees.  A competitor may be successful in hiring away employees, which may result in Jefferies losing business formerly serviced by such employees.  Competition can also raise Jefferies costs of hiring and retaining the employees Jefferies needs to effectively operate its business.




Operational risks may disrupt Jefferies business, result in regulatory action against Jefferies or limit Jefferies growth.  Jefferies businesses are highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions Jefferies processes have become increasingly complex.  If any of Jefferies financial, accounting or other data processing systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in Jefferies internal processes, people or systems, Jefferies could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.  These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond Jefferies control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or Jefferies inability to occupy one or more of our buildings.  The inability of Jefferies systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain its ability to expand its businesses.




Jefferies also faces the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries Jefferies uses to facilitate its securities transactions.  Any such failure or termination could adversely affect Jefferies ability to effect transactions and manage its exposure to risk.

 


  


15




In addition, despite the contingency plans Jefferies has in place, Jefferies ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which they are located.  This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by Jefferies or third parties with which Jefferies conducts business.




Jefferies operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks.  Although Jefferies takes protective measures and endeavors to modify them as circumstances warrant, its computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact.  Additionally, if a client’s computer system, network or other technology is compromised by unauthorized access, Jefferies may face losses or other adverse consequences by unknowingly entering into unauthorized transactions.  If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize Jefferies or its clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, Jefferies computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in Jefferies, its clients’, its counterparties’ or third parties’ operations, including the transmission and execution of unauthorized transactions.  Jefferies may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and Jefferies may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by it.




Jefferies international operations subject it to numerous risks which could adversely impact Jefferies business in many ways.  Jefferies business and operations are expanding internationally.  Wherever Jefferies operates, it is subject to legal, regulatory, political, economic and other inherent risks.  The laws and regulations applicable to the securities and investment banking industries differ in each country.  Jefferies inability to remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in a particular country could have a significant and negative effect on its business and prospects in that country as well as in other countries.  A political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact Jefferies business and increase volatility in financial markets generally.




Legal liability may harm Jefferies business.  Many aspects of Jefferies business involve substantial risks of liability, and in the normal course of business, Jefferies has been named as a defendant or codefendant in lawsuits involving primarily claims for damages.  The risks associated with potential legal liabilities often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.  The expansion of Jefferies business, including increases in the number and size of investment banking transactions and Jefferies expansion into new areas impose greater risks of liability.  In addition, unauthorized or illegal acts of Jefferies employees could result in substantial liability.  Substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause Jefferies significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm Jefferies business and its prospects.




Jefferies business is subject to significant credit risk.  In the normal course of Jefferies businesses, Jefferies is involved in the execution, settlement and financing of various customer and principal securities and derivative transactions.  These activities are transacted on a cash, margin or delivery-versus-payment basis and are subject to the risk of counterparty or customer nonperformance.  Although transactions are generally collateralized by the underlying security or other securities, Jefferies still faces the risks associated with changes in the market value of the collateral through settlement date or during the time when margin is extended and the risk of counterparty nonperformance to the extent collateral has not been secured or the counterparty defaults before collateral or margin can be adjusted.  Jefferies may also incur credit risk in its derivative transactions to the extent such transactions result in uncollateralized credit exposure to counterparties.




Jefferies seeks to control the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily.  Jefferies may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or return collateral pledged.  In the case of aged securities failed to receive, Jefferies may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty.  However, there can be no assurances that Jefferies risk controls will be successful.




Derivative transactions may expose Jefferies to unexpected risk and potential losses.  Jefferies is party to a number of derivative transactions that require it to deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment.  In a number of cases, Jefferies does not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions.  As a result, Jefferies is subject to the risk that it may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery.  This could cause Jefferies to forfeit the payments due to it under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm.

 


  


16




The prices and availability of key raw materials affects the profitability of our beef processing and manufacturing operations.  The supply and market price of cattle purchased by National Beef are dependent upon a variety of factors over which National Beef has no control, including fluctuations in the size of herds maintained by producers, the relative cost of feed and energy, weather and livestock diseases.  A decline in the supply of fed cattle available for National Beef’s Brawley facility was a key factor in the 2013 decision to close the plant.  The cost of raw materials used by our manufacturing businesses has increased as a result of a variety of factors, including increased foreign demand. Although our manufacturing subsidiaries are not currently experiencing any shortage of raw materials, if the subsidiaries experience shortages, revenues and profitability could decline.




Outbreaks of disease affecting livestock can adversely affect the supply of cattle and the demand for National Beef’s products.  National Beef is subject to risks relating to animal health and disease control.  An outbreak of disease affecting livestock (such as foot-and-mouth disease or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (“BSE”), commonly referred to as mad cow disease) could result in restrictions on sales of products, restrictions on purchases of livestock from suppliers or widespread destruction of cattle.  The discovery of BSE in the past caused certain countries to restrict or prohibit the importation of beef products.  Outbreaks of diseases, or the perception by the public that an outbreak has occurred, or other concerns regarding diseases, can lead to inadequate supply, cancellation of orders by customers and create adverse publicity, any of which can have a significant negative impact on consumer demand and, as a result, on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.

 

If National Beef’s products or products made by others using its products become contaminated or are alleged to be contaminated, National Beef may be subject to product liability claims that could adversely affect its business. National Beef may be subject to significant liability in excess of insurance policy limits if its products or products made by others using its products causes injury, illness or death.  In addition, National Beef could recall or be required to recall products that are, or are alleged to be, contaminated, spoiled or inappropriately labeled.  Organisms producing food borne illnesses (such as E. coli) could be present in National Beef’s products and result in illness or death if they are not eliminated through further processing or cooking.  Contamination of National Beef’s or its competitors’ products may create adverse publicity or cause consumers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of beef products.  Allegations of product contamination may also be harmful even if they are untrue or result from third-party tampering.  Any of these events may increase costs or decrease demand for beef products, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.




National Beef generally does not enter into long-term contracts with customers; as a result the volumes and prices at which beef products are sold are subject to market forces.  National Beef’s customers generally place orders for products on an as-needed basis and, as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future.  The loss of one or more significant customers such as Walmart, a significant decline in the volume of orders from customers or a significant decrease in beef product prices for a sustained period of time could negatively impact cash flows and results of operations.




Failure to replace Walmart’s consumer-ready business would have a significant adverse effect on National Beef’s sales and profitability.  Sales to Walmart represented approximately 10% of National Beef’s total net sales during 2012.  Walmart discontinued using National Beef as a provider of its consumer-ready products in 2013.  National Beef continues to pursue replacement business for its consumer-ready facilities; however, it may not be able to fully replace the operating cash flow generated by the Walmart business in the near future, if at all.  During 2014, the three consumer-ready facilities operated at reduced levels, and continue to do so.




National Beef’s international operations expose it to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency fluctuations.  Approximately 12% of National Beef’s annual sales are export sales, primarily to Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Hong Kong, China (for hides), Taiwan, Italy and Egypt, and on average these sales have a higher margin than domestic sales of similar products.  A reduction in international sales could adversely affect revenues and margins.  Risks associated with international activities include inflation or deflation and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including changes in currency exchange rates of other countries that may export beef products in competition with National Beef; the closing of borders by foreign countries to product imports due to disease or other perceived health or food safety issues; exchange controls; changes in tariffs; changes in political or economic conditions; trade restrictions and changes in regulatory requirements.  The occurrence of any of these events could increase costs, lower demand for products or limit operations, which could have a significant adverse effect on cash flows, results of operations and future prospects. 




National Beef incurs substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations and could incur additional costs as a result of new regulations or compliance failures that result in civil or criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity.  National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental regulations administered by the EPA and state, local and other authorities with regards to water usage, wastewater and storm water discharge, air emissions and odor, and waste management and disposal.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have serious consequences, including criminal, civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity.  In addition, National Beef incurs and will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with existing and new or more stringent regulations and requirements.  All of National Beef’s processing facilities procure wastewater treatment services from municipal or other regional governmental agencies that are in turn subject to environmental laws and permit limits regarding their water discharges.  As permit limits are becoming more stringent, upgrades and capital improvements to these municipal treatment facilities are likely.  In locations where National Beef is a significant volume discharger, it could be asked to contribute toward the costs of such upgrades or to pay significantly increased water or sewer charges to recoup such upgrade costs.  National Beef may also be required to undertake upgrades and make capital improvements to its own wastewater pretreatment facilities, the cost of which could be significant.  Compliance with environmental regulations has had and will continue to have a significant impact on National Beef’s cash flows and profitability.  In addition, under most environmental laws, most notably the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and analogous state laws, National Beef could be held liable for the cost to investigate or remediate any contamination at properties it owns or operates, or as to which it arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, as such liability is imposed without regard to fault.

 

 


17




National Beef is subject to extensive governmental regulation and noncompliance with or changes in applicable requirements could adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by the USDA, including its FSIS and GIPSA agencies, the FDA, and other federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, safety, distribution, advertising and labeling of its products.  Recently, food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight by the USDA.  National Beef is also subject to a variety of immigration, labor and worker safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the hiring and retention of employees.  Failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations could result in administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, fines, interruption of operations, recalls of products or seizures of properties, potential criminal sanctions and personal injury or other damage claims.  These remedies, changes in the applicable laws and regulations or discovery of currently unknown conditions could increase costs, limit business operations and reduce profitability.

 

National Beef’s performance depends on favorable labor relations with its employees, in particular employees represented by collective bargaining agreements.  A substantial number of National Beef’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A labor-related work stoppage by unionized employees, or employees who become unionized in the future, could limit National Beef’s ability to process and ship products or could increase costs.  Any significant increase in labor costs, deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of National Beef’s locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.




Uncertainties inherent in Harbinger’s business and operations could impact the realizability of the full value of our investment.  As a diversified holding company, Harbinger is subject to risks and uncertainties across the industries in which it invests.  It is also subject to risks associated with its holding company structure, which include potential difficulties or limitations in receiving distributions from its subsidiaries, and the risk that acquisitions, dispositions or integrations of subsidiaries may not be successful.  We hold about 23% of the common shares of Harbinger and we record our investment at fair value.  As we do not control Harbinger, its management may make decisions that are not in our best interest.  Harbinger could decide to issue additional common shares, which would dilute our current ownership.  Additionally, changes in the market price of Harbinger shares may lead to volatility in our results of operations.  For additional risk factors concerning Harbinger, see its SEC filings at www.sec.gov.




The performance of our oil and gas exploration and production investments, Juneau and Vitesse, is impacted by uncertainties specific to the oil and gas industry which we cannot control.  This industry is speculative by its very nature and involves a high degree of risk.  The value of these investments may be impacted by changes in oil prices, which are affected by local, regional and global events or conditions that affect demand and which have a history of price volatility.  These investments are also exposed to changes in regulations affecting the industry, which could increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay business opportunities.  In addition, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating future production and associated future income streams.  As a result, actual results could differ from those currently anticipated and our ability to profitably grow these investments could be adversely affected.




Declines in the U.S. housing market have reduced revenues of our manufacturing businesses and may continue to do so.  Our manufacturing operations, particularly Idaho Timber, have generated significant revenues when the U.S. housing market was strong.  The weak U.S. housing market during the last few years has resulted in fewer new housing starts, which has adversely impacted revenues of our manufacturing businesses, particularly Idaho Timber; revenues are not expected to return to prior levels until the U.S. housing market recovers.




We may not be able to insure certain risks economically.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be financially viable if we make a claim.  If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, or if we are required to pay a deductible for an insured loss, results of operations could be adversely affected.  Damages from storms could result in the closing of our facilities to make repairs, resulting in lost business and adversely affecting results of operations.




If Berkadia does not maintain certain specified ratings from the credit rating agencies it could lose its mortgage servicing rights.  Berkadia is required to maintain specified servicer ratings from the credit rating agencies, and failure to do so would give its customers the right to terminate their mortgage servicing agreements.  If mortgage servicing agreements were terminated as a result of a servicer ratings downgrade, we could lose our entire equity investment.




When Berkadia originates loans for Fannie Mae, it is often required to share in the losses on such loans, which could be in excess of reserved amounts.  Berkadia carries a reserve on its balance sheet for contingent losses on loans originated for Fannie Mae that have loss sharing requirements.  If actual losses exceed amounts reserved, Berkadia’s profitability and cash flows will be reduced.




The loss of or changes in Berkadia’s relationships with U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises and federal agencies would have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s business.  Berkadia’s failure to comply with U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprise or agency requirements may result in its termination as an approved seller/servicer, mortgagee or issuer.  The loss of any such status could have a significant adverse impact on Berkadia’s results of operations, could result in a loss of similar approvals from other U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises or federal agencies and could have other adverse consequences to the business.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac retain broad discretion to terminate Berkadia as a seller/servicer without cause upon notice.

 


  


18




Changes in existing government‑sponsored and federal mortgage programs could negatively affect Berkadia’s business.  Berkadia’s ability to generate income through mortgage sales to institutional investors depends in part on programs sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA, which purchase such loans from Berkadia and/or facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market.  The federal government has announced that the continuation of these programs is under review, and that any or all of the government agency programs could be substantially modified or eliminated in the future.  Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction or change in, the operation of those programs would have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s loan origination and servicing business and results of operations.




Berkadia’s special servicing and fee-for-service businesses may be terminated on short notice.  Special servicing for each CMBS transaction is usually controlled by the subordinated bond holder class of the securitization.  The owners of the subordinated bonds may change from time to time, and subordinated bond holders may replace Berkadia with a different special servicer.  Fee-for-service customers are permitted to terminate Berkadia on short notice, usually 30 days.  If Berkadia loses special servicing rights or is terminated by fee-for-service customers, it would negatively impact Berkadia’s results of operations and cash flows.




CMBS loan and Bridge loan programs will expose Berkadia to credit and interest rate risk that it is not subject to with its government agency lending programs.  Unlike its government agency lending programs, Berkadia cannot be assured it will be able to sell CMBS and Bridge loans at par value to a third-party without any exposure to credit or interest rate risk.  If for any reason Berkadia is unable to sell a CMBS loan into the securitization market or if a borrower is unable to refinance a Bridge loan, Berkadia will retain all risks associated with such loan for as long as it owns the loan.  Berkadia may be forced to foreclose on defaulted loans and suffer a loss, or to sell loans to a third party at a discount, either of which would reduce Berkadia’s profitability and cash flows. 




If Berkadia suffered significant losses and was unable to repay its commercial paper borrowings, we would be exposed to loss pursuant to a reimbursement obligation to Berkshire Hathaway.  Berkadia obtains funds generated by commercial paper sales of an affiliate of Berkadia.  All of the proceeds from the commercial paper sales are used by Berkadia to fund new mortgage loans, servicer advances, investments and other working capital requirements.  Repayment of the commercial paper is supported by a $2.5 billion surety policy issued by a Berkshire Hathaway insurance subsidiary and corporate guaranty, and we have agreed to reimburse Berkshire Hathaway for one-half of any losses incurred thereunder.  If Berkadia suffers significant losses and is unable to repay its commercial paper borrowings, we would suffer losses to the extent of its reimbursement obligation to Berkshire Hathaway.  As of December 31, 2014, the aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding was $2.47 billion.




Berkadia’s business is significantly affected by general economic conditions, particularly in the commercial real estate industry, and could be harmed in the event of a continued economic slowdown, prolonged recession or other market downturn or disruption.  Berkadia’s business and earnings are sensitive to changes in government policies and regulations, changes in interest rates, inflation, deflation, oversupply of real estate properties, fluctuations in the real estate and debt capital markets and developments in national and local economies.  Unfavorable economic conditions could have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s business, including decreasing the demand for new loans and the servicing of loans originated by third parties.




Garcadia’s business is dependent, in part, upon revenue from new and used car sales at its dealerships, and declines in revenues due to industry or other factors could result in reduced profitability, reduced cash flows and/or impairment charges.  Garcadia has recorded impairment charges in the past, principally for goodwill and other intangible assets, and if the automobile industry experiences a downturn in the future additional impairment charges are likely, reducing our profitability.




From time to time we may invest in illiquid securities that are subject to standstill agreements or are otherwise restricted.  From time to time we may invest in securities that are subject to restrictions which prohibit us from selling the subject securities for a period of time.  Although we are not a party to any such agreement currently should we enter into these agreements in the future and need to generate liquidity quickly, such agreements would limit our ability to dispose of the underlying investment while the agreement is effective.




We could experience significant increases in operating costs and reduced profitability due to competition for skilled management and staff employees in our operating businesses.  We compete with many other entities for skilled management and staff employees, including entities that operate in different market sectors than us.  Costs to recruit and retain adequate personnel could adversely affect results of operations.




Extreme weather, loss of electrical power or other forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business.  Natural disasters, fire, terrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could interfere with our operating businesses due to power outages, fuel shortages, water shortages, damage to facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things.  Any of these factors, as well as disruptions to information systems, could have an adverse effect on financial results.




We rely on the security of our information technology systems and those of our third party providers to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. Some of our businesses involve the storage and transmission of customers’ personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information.  While we believe that we have implemented protective measures to effectively secure information and prevent security breaches, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, computer viruses or other unauthorized attempts by third parties to access the proprietary information of our customers.  Information technology breaches and failures could disrupt our ability to function in the normal course of business resulting in lost revenue, the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information and the incurrence of remediation and notification costs, resulting in legal and financial exposure.  Moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues.

 


  


19




From time to time we are subject to litigation, for which we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.  We and our subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary, routine litigation incidental to our business or not significant to our consolidated financial position or liquidity.  Although our current assessment is that, other than as disclosed in this report, there is no pending litigation that could have a significant adverse impact, if our assessment proves to be in error, then the outcome of litigation could have a significant impact on our financial statements.




We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize our deferred tax asset, which would also have to be reduced if U.S. federal income tax rates are lowered.  At December 31, 2014, we have recognized net deferred tax assets of $1.7 billion.  If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset.  If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), the NOLs would expire unused.  Our projections of future taxable income required to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset reflect numerous assumptions about our operating businesses and investments, and are subject to change as conditions change specific to our business units, investments or general economic conditions.  Changes that are adverse to us could result in the need to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance resulting in a charge to results of operations and a decrease to total stockholders’ equity.  In addition, if U.S. federal income tax rates are lowered, we would be required to reduce our net deferred tax asset with a corresponding reduction to earnings during the period.




If our tax filing positions were to be challenged by federal, state and local or foreign tax jurisdictions, we may not be wholly successful in defending our tax filing positions.  We record reserves for unrecognized tax benefits based on our assessment of the probability of successfully sustaining tax filing positions.  Management exercises significant judgment when assessing the probability of successfully sustaining tax filing positions, and in determining whether a contingent tax liability should be recorded and if so estimating the amount.  If our tax filing positions are successfully challenged, payments could be required that are in excess of reserved amounts or we may be required to reduce the carrying amount of our net deferred tax asset, either of which result could be significant to our Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition or results of operations.




We have indicated our intention to pay dividends at the annual rate of $0.25 per common share, on a quarterly basis.  The payment of dividends in the future is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon general business conditions, legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem to be relevant.




Our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions.  We and certain of our subsidiaries have significant NOLs and other tax attributes, the amount and availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and uncertainties.  In order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from acquiring additional common shares.  The restriction will remain until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of a taxable year to which these tax benefits may no longer be carried forward.  The restriction may be waived by our Board of Directors on a case by case basis.  Shareholders are advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our common shares approaches the proscribed level.







Item 1B