Item 1A.   Risk Factors.
- -------    ------------

       Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully
consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information
included or incorporated by reference in this Report, before you decide whether
to purchase our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we
face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and
results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the
trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of
your investment.

        Future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments
are possible, changing the components of our assets and liabilities, and if
unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares.

        We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are dependent on the
services of Ian M. Cumming and Joseph S. Steinberg, our Chairman of the Board
and President, respectively. Messrs. Cumming's and Steinberg's employment
agreements with us expire June 30, 2015. These individuals are also significant
shareholders of our Company. As of February 20, 2009, Messrs. Cumming and
Steinberg and trusts for the benefit of their respective families (excluding
certain private charitable foundations) beneficially owned approximately 10.6%
and 11.7% of our outstanding common shares, respectively. Accordingly, Messrs.
Cumming and Steinberg exert significant influence over all matters requiring
approval by our shareholders, including the election or removal of directors and
the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions.

                                       24


        We operate in a variety of industries and market sectors, all of which
are very competitive and susceptible to economic downturns and are adversely
affected by the current recession. A worsening of general economic or market
conditions may result in lower valuations for our businesses or investments.

        Declines in the U.S. housing market have reduced revenues and
profitability of the manufacturing businesses and may continue to do so.

       The prices and availability of key raw materials affects the
profitability of our manufacturing operations, and also impacts Sangart's
ability to conduct its clinical trials.

       Pricing on STi Prepaid's prepaid phone card business is highly sensitive
to price declines and subject to intense competition. We believe in some
instances our competitors offer or appear to offer rates to consumers that are
below their cost in order to gain market share. This type of pricing by one or
more of our competitors can adversely affect our revenues and profits.

       STi Prepaid relies on independent distributors to generate revenues, who
may not devote sufficient efforts to promote and sell our products rather than
the products of our competitors.

       The Hard Rock Biloxi is in the early stages of operations relative to its
competitors and has yet to produce significant operating income. If Premier is
unable to manage the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business
enterprise, it would negatively impact operating results, which could result in
impairment charges if the net book value of Premier's property and equipment is
deemed unrecoverable.

       The Hard Rock Biloxi is dependent upon patronage of persons living in the
Gulf Coast region. Downturns in local and regional economic conditions, an
increase in competition in the surrounding area and interruptions caused by
hurricanes could negatively impact operating results.

       Increases in mortgage interest rate levels or the lack of available
consumer credit could reduce consumer demand for certain of our real estate
development projects.

       Sangart is subject to extensive government regulation, cannot generate
any revenue without regulatory approval of its products and is also subject to
all of the risks inherent in establishing a new business.

       There are other companies developing products for the same market that
Sangart is targeting, and if they are successful in bringing their product to
market before Sangart it may significantly impair Sangart's ability to compete
in the same market segment.

       Sangart's success depends on its ability to obtain, maintain and defend
patent protection for its products and technologies, preserve trade secrets and
operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. The
patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies, such as Sangart, are generally
uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If Sangart's
intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or
expire, or if Sangart fails to maintain its third-party intellectual property
licenses in good standing, its ability to successfully bring Hemospan to market
would be adversely affected, it could incur monetary liabilities or be required
to cease using the technology or product in dispute.

       Goober Drilling's revenues and profitability are impacted by natural gas
supplies and prices and the supply of drilling rigs in the marketplace. During
periods of decreased demand for natural gas, Goober Drilling's rig utilization
will decline and its competitors may also have excess capacity in the
marketplace, which would adversely impact Goober Drilling's revenues and
profitability.

       The lack of liquidity in the capital markets has and could continue to
adversely affect exploration, production and development activities of Goober
Drilling's customers, which causes a reduction in rig utilization and
profitability. The combination of low oil and natural gas prices and the lack of
liquidity in the capital markets have forced Goober Drilling customers to reduce
drilling programs and may impair their ability to sustain their current level of
operations and meet their cash obligations. In addition to reduced rig
utilization and profitability, which could result in impairment charges for
certain rigs, the difficulties being experienced by Goober Drilling's customers
could increase Goober Drilling's bad debt expense.

                                       25



       The Company has a substantial investment in Jefferies, an investment
banking and securities firm whose operating results are greatly affected by the
economy and financial markets. Turmoil in the equity and credit markets has had
and may continue to have an adverse effect on the volume and size of
transactions Jefferies executes for its customers, resulting in reduced revenues
and profitability in its investment banking, asset management and trading
activities, as well as losses in its principal trading activities. Declines in
Jefferies operating results could adversely affect the value of the Company's
investment.

       The Company has a substantial investment in ACF, a company that purchases
automobile loans made to sub-prime and other borrowers, whose operating results
are greatly affected by the economy and financial markets. If ACF's loan losses
increase as its borrowers experience economic hardships, or if its ability to
acquire new loans and grow its business is impaired, particularly due to the
turmoil in the credit markets that ACF needs to access to fund its operating
activities, its revenues and profits would decline, adversely affecting the
value of the Company's investment.

       Subsequent to December 31, 2008, ACF failed to maintain a financial
covenant in one of its credit facilities and has been granted a waiver through
March 7, 2009. ACF is currently negotiating with its credit providers to amend
its facility; however, if ACF is unsuccessful the value of the Company's
investment could decline significantly.

       The Company has substantial investments in Fortescue, Inmet and CLC,
entities which are engaged in the mining of base metals (principally iron ore
and copper), the prices of which have declined during 2008 reducing the value of
the Company's investments. If these prices decline further or delays occur in
bringing the mines into production, the value of the Company's investments could
decline.

       The value of the investments in the Company's defined benefit pension
plan portfolio has declined significantly, and if the values do not recover or
decline further, the Company's unfunded defined pension plan liability could
increase significantly.

       We could experience significant increases in operating costs and reduced
profitability due to competition for skilled management and staff employees in
our operating businesses.

       From time to time we are subject to litigation, which if adversely
determined may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition or results of operations.

       We have large investments in unconsolidated public companies, including
Fortescue, Inmet, Jefferies and ACF, each of which is subject to litigation from
time to time, and if such litigation results in material losses the value of our
investments may decline.

       We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize
our NOLs. At December 31, 2008, the Company has recorded a valuation allowance
against substantially all of the net deferred tax asset due to the uncertainty
about its ability to generate future taxable income to utilize that asset.

       We may not be able to insure certain risks economically. We cannot be
certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure
economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be financially
viable if we make a claim. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured
limits should occur, results of operations could be adversely affected.

       We did not pay dividends on our common shares in 2008 and the payment of
dividends in the future is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors.

       Our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions. We and certain of
our subsidiaries have significant NOLs and other tax attributes, the amount and
availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and
uncertainties. In order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in
ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our
certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the
ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through
attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the
ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from
acquiring additional common shares. The restriction will remain until the
earliest of (a) December 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal
Revenue Code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of
our taxable year to which these tax attributes may no longer be carried forward.
The restriction may be waived by our Board of Directors. Shareholders are
advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult
their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our
common shares approaches the proscribed level.

                                       26



Item 1B