Item 1A.   Risk Factors.
- -------    ------------

       Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully
consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information
included or incorporated by reference in this Report, before you decide whether
to purchase our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we
face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and
results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the
trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of
your investment.

        Future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments
are possible, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares.
Any future acquisitions or dispositions may result in significant changes in the
composition of our assets and liabilities. Consequently, our financial
condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may
be affected by factors different from those affecting our financial condition,
results of operations and trading price at the present time.

        We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are dependent on the
services of Ian M. Cumming and Joseph S. Steinberg, our Chairman of the Board
and President, respectively. Messrs. Cumming's and Steinberg's employment
agreements with us expire June 30, 2015. These individuals are also significant
shareholders of our Company. As of February 14, 2008, Messrs. Cumming and
Steinberg and trusts for the benefit of their respective families (excluding
certain private charitable foundations) beneficially owned approximately 11.3%
and 12.5% of our outstanding common shares, respectively. Accordingly, Messrs.
Cumming and Steinberg exert significant influence over all matters requiring
approval by our shareholders, including the election or removal of directors and
the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions.

        We operate in a variety of industries and market sectors, all of which
are very competitive and susceptible to economic downturns and would be
adversely affected by a recession. A worsening of general economic or market
conditions may result in lower valuations for our businesses or investments or
have a negative impact on the credit quality of our assets.

        Declines in the U.S. housing market have reduced revenues and
profitability of the manufacturing businesses and may continue to do so.

       Our manufacturing operations are subject to risks associated with
increased volatility in raw material prices and availability of key raw
materials. If the price for our raw materials continues to increase and we are
not able to pass these price increases to our customers, or we are unable to
obtain key raw materials, our results of operations will be negatively impacted.

       STi Prepaid may not be able to obtain sufficient or cost-effective
termination capacity to particular destinations. This could result in an
inability to fulfill customer demands or in higher costs, which could adversely
affect revenues and margins.

       Pricing on STi Prepaid's prepaid phone card business is highly sensitive
to price declines and subject to intense competition. We believe in some
instances our competitors offer or appear to offer rates to consumers that are
below their cost in order to gain market share. This type of pricing by one or
more of our competitors can adversely affect our revenues and profits.

       STi Prepaid relies on independent distributors to generate revenues, who
may not devote sufficient efforts to promote and sell our products rather than
the products of our competitors.

       The Hard Rock Biloxi is a new business with no operating history, and
Premier does not have any experience operating a gaming facility. If Premier is
unable to manage the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business
enterprise, it would negatively impact operating results.

       Increases in mortgage interest rate levels or decreases in available
consumer credit could reduce consumer demand for certain of our real estate
development projects.

       The Company's current and future investment in Sangart is subject to
certain regulatory risks and costs, as well as risks associated with the
operation of a new business without a proven track record. Sangart's activities
are subject to extensive government regulation and Sangart cannot generate any
revenue without regulatory approval of its products. Sangart is also subject to
all of the risks inherent in establishing a new business.


                                       22


       Sangart's Hemospan product is subject to competition from other products
under development. There are other companies developing products for the same
market that Sangart is targeting, and if they are successful in bringing their
product to market before Sangart it may significantly impair Sangart's ability
to compete in the same market segment.

       Sangart's success depends on its ability to obtain, maintain and defend
patent protection for its products and technologies, preserve trade secrets and
operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. The
patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies, such as Sangart, are generally
uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. If Sangart's
intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or
expire, or if Sangart fails to maintain its third-party intellectual property
licenses in good standing, its ability to successfully bring Hemospan to market
would be adversely affected, it could incur monetary liabilities or be required
to cease using the technology or product in dispute.

       Goober Drilling's revenues and profitability are impacted by natural gas
supplies and prices and the supply of drilling rigs in the marketplace. During
periods of decreased demand for natural gas, Goober Drilling's rig utilization
will decline and its competitors may also have excess capacity in the
marketplace, which would adversely impact Goober Drilling's revenues and
profitability.

       The Company has a substantial investment in ACF, a company that makes
automobile loans to sub-prime and other borrowers. If ACF's loan losses increase
or its ability to make new loans and grow its business is impaired, its revenues
and profits would decline, adversely affecting the value of the Company's
investment.

       The Company has substantial investments in Fortescue, Inmet and CLC,
entities which are engaged in the mining of base metals (principally iron ore
and copper), the prices of which have recently been at record levels. If these
prices decline or delays occur in bringing the mines into production, the value
of the Company's investments would decline.

       We could experience significant increases in operating costs and reduced
profitability due to competition for skilled management and staff employees in
our operating businesses.

       From time to time we are subject to litigation, for which we may be
unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which if adversely
determined, may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
condition or results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are or may
become parties to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary,
routine litigation incidental to their business or not material to the Company's
consolidated financial position or liquidity. However, adverse determinations in
specific legal matters could have a material adverse impact on the Company's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

        We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully
realize our deferred tax asset. At December 31, 2007, we have recognized a
deferred tax asset of $1,138,100,000. If we are unable to generate sufficient
taxable income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the
deferred tax asset.

        We may not be able to insure certain risks economically. We cannot be
certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure
economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be financially
viable if we make a claim. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured
limits should occur, results of operations could be adversely affected.

        We may reduce or cease to pay dividends on our common shares. On a split
adjusted basis, we paid cash dividends of $0.25 per common share in 2007 and
2006 and $0.125 per common share in 2005. However, we cannot assure you that we
will pay dividends on our common shares in the future or, if we do, the amount
of such dividends. The payment of dividends on our common shares in the future
is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon
general business conditions, the availability of our NOLs, legal and contractual
restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that our Board of
Directors may deem to be relevant. In connection with the declaration of
dividends or the making of distributions on, or the purchase, redemption or
other acquisition of our common shares, we are required to comply with certain
restrictions contained in certain of our debt instruments.

                                       23


       Our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions. We and certain of
our subsidiaries have significant NOLs and other tax attributes, the amount and
availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and
uncertainties. In order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in
ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our
certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the
ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through
attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the
ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from
acquiring additional common shares. The restriction will remain until the
earliest of (a) December 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal
Revenue Code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of
our taxable year to which these tax attributes may no longer be carried forward.
The restriction may be waived by our Board of Directors. Shareholders are
advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult
their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our
common shares approaches the proscribed level.

Item 1B