Item 1A.   Risk Factors.
- -------    ------------

       Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully
consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information
included or incorporated by reference in this Report, before you decide whether
to purchase our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we
face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and
results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the
trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of
your investment.

        Future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments
are possible, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares.
We continuously evaluate the retention and disposition of our existing
operations and investigate possible acquisitions of new businesses. Any future
acquisitions or dispositions may result in significant changes in the
composition of our assets and liabilities. Consequently, our financial
condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may
be affected by factors different from those affecting our financial condition,
results of operations and trading price at the present time.

                                       21



        Future acquisitions and investments may expose us to risks to which we
are not currently subject. Future acquisitions and investments may expose us to
risks such as:

       o      the possibility that future acquisitions and investments may not
              immediately, if ever, add value to our Company;

       o      diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses;
              and

       o      the possibility that the acquired businesses or investments will
              generate insufficient profits to offset the increased expenses
              associated with the acquisitions.

        Our ability to make future acquisitions and investments successfully
depends on a range of factors, including our ability to identify and compete
with others for potential acquisition targets, the acquisition price, terms and
conditions of any completed acquisitions, and the future profitability of any
new acquisitions and investments.

        We are dependent on certain key personnel. We are dependent on the
services of Ian M. Cumming and Joseph S. Steinberg, our Chairman of the Board
and President, respectively. Messrs. Cumming's and Steinberg's employment
agreements with us expire June 30, 2015. These individuals are also significant
shareholders of our Company. As of February 23, 2006, Messrs. Cumming and
Steinberg and their respective families (excluding certain private charitable
foundations) beneficially owned approximately 11.5% and 12.6% of our outstanding
common shares, respectively. Accordingly, Messrs. Cumming and Steinberg could
exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our
shareholders, including the election or removal of directors and the approval of
mergers or other business combination transactions.

        We operate in a variety of industries and market sectors, certain of
which may be more susceptible to economic downturns than others. The industries
in which we operate may be subject to the effects of national or local economic
cycles, increased competition and changes in demographic conditions, any of
which may adversely affect our businesses and are beyond our control. Changes in
economic conditions in the United States or internationally can cause
fluctuation in prices and sales volumes which could adversely affect the
Company's operating results. A worsening of general economic or market
conditions may result in lower valuations for our businesses or investments or
have a negative impact on the credit quality of our assets.

        Changes in the U.S. housing market could reduce Idaho Timber's revenues
and profitability. Idaho Timber's revenues benefit from continued strong new
housing starts and the strong home improvement market in the U.S. Any decline in
the U.S. housing market, which could result from local, regional, national or
international economic changes, or from other factors, including increases in
mortgage interest rate levels, would likely reduce demand for Idaho Timber's
products and lower revenue.

        Changes in telecommunications laws and regulations could adversely
affect ATX. ATX operates in a highly competitive and regulated industry. ATX
would not be able to provide many of its services to its customers without the
ability to purchase services from its competitors, which is a right ATX and
others currently have pursuant to government laws promoting competition in local
telephone markets. Recent changes in government regulations have either limited
the ability of ATX to purchase certain services, or increased the cost of those
services to ATX. Future regulatory changes could have an adverse impact on ATX's
ability to sell its products, to sell its products at a competitive price or to
acquire the services it needs at a cost effective rate. In addition, ATX incurs
substantial expenses complying with various local, state and federal
regulations, and changes in these regulations could increase the cost of
compliance.

        We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in raw
material prices and the availability of key raw materials. We purchase
significant amounts of raw materials from third parties for use in our plastics
manufacturing and Idaho Timber businesses. The price for polypropylene, the
principal raw material used by the plastics manufacturing segment, tends to
fluctuate with the price of oil and as a result has risen significantly over the
past couple of years. To the extent this trend continues and we are unable to
pass these price increases to our customers, our results of operations will be
negatively impacted. A significant portion of Idaho Timber's raw material
purchases are from foreign suppliers, and the availability of that supply can be
adversely impacted by trade disputes. In addition, raw material prices at Idaho
Timber will not always rise and fall in proportion to selling prices of Idaho
Timber's products, which can have a negative impact on operating results.

                                       22



        Compliance with government laws and regulations require the expenditure
of funds and adversely affect the profitability of our real estate development
projects. Our real estate development business requires numerous governmental
approvals, licenses and permits, which we must obtain before we can begin
development and construction. This approval process can be delayed by
withdrawals or modifications of preliminary approvals, by litigation and appeals
challenging development rights and by changes in prevailing local circumstances
or applicable laws that may require additional approvals. Adverse regulatory
changes or failure to obtain approvals could delay real estate development
projects or make them more costly to complete.

        Changes in mortgage interest rate levels or changes in consumer lending
practices could reduce consumer affordability and demand for some of our real
estate development projects. Certain of our real estate development projects are
dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential
homebuyers. Any significant increase in the prevailing low mortgage interest
rate environment or decrease in available credit could reduce consumer demand
for housing, which in turn could lead to fewer home sales or lower selling
prices.

        A decrease in consumer spending or general increases in the cost of
living could adversely impact sales at our wineries. Our wineries primarily
produce and sell wines in the luxury segment of the premium table wine market,
and are significantly dependent on the level of consumer spending. Consumer
spending habits are influenced by a number of factors beyond our control,
including the general state of the economy, increases in the cost of living,
federal and state income tax rates, deductibility of business entertainment
expenses under federal and state law and consumer confidence in future economic
conditions.

       Adverse regulatory developments and healthcare reform legislation
impacting Medicare reimbursement levels could reduce Symphony's revenues and
reduce our operating profits. Changes in the reimbursement policies of the
Medicare or Medicaid programs as a result of budget cuts by federal and state
governments or other legislative and regulatory actions could have an adverse
effect on our healthcare business. Government payment programs are subject to
statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative
orders and funding restrictions, all of which could decrease program payments to
us or to our customers. In recent years, there have been numerous discussions at
federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms of the country's healthcare
system. Regulatory action affecting the level of funding for Medicare and
Medicaid programs, the reimbursement regulations of CMS, greater regulatory
flexibility, additional operational requirements or failure to obtain relief
from the recently imposed Medicare Part B caps could adversely affect us.

       The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by the government, which
requires our compliance with a variety of laws. The services Symphony provides
are subject to periodic reviews, investigations and audits by governmental
authorities to ensure that we are complying with standards established for
continued licensure under state law, certification for participation under the
Medicare and Medicaid programs and compliance with laws governing the
transmission and privacy of patient healthcare information. We could be
adversely affected if we fail to meet these standards or if the standards change
and we experience delays or incur additional costs in meeting the new standards.
Our failure to obtain, retain or renew any required regulatory approvals,
licenses or certificates could prevent us from being reimbursed for certain of
our services. Symphony incurs substantial administrative costs complying with
government laws and regulations. Symphony is also subject to potential lawsuits
under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the
healthcare industry.

       We could experience significant increases in operating costs due to
continued intense competition for qualified staff in our healthcare business.
Our inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel would make it
difficult to conduct our healthcare business. Due to shortages in qualified
professionals in the healthcare industry, competition for these employees is
intense and Symphony's competitors may offer more attractive wage and benefit
packages than we do. In addition to the wage pressures inherent in this
environment, the cost of training new employees amid high turnover rates has
increased our costs. Continued industry-wide shortages of qualified healthcare
professionals will affect our ability to attract and maintain adequate staffing
levels, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

                                       23


        Our various businesses are dependent on the proper functioning of our
information systems. Our operations are dependent on the proper functioning of
our information systems. Additionally, we rely on our information systems in
managing our accounting and financial reporting. Hardware and software is
protected by various forms and levels of security, and certain of our
information technology functions have backup processing capabilities. However,
these systems are still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss,
telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events.
In the event that critical information systems are unavailable, these functions
would have to be accomplished manually, which could temporarily impair our
ability to identify business opportunities quickly, maintain billing and
clinical records reliably, bill for services efficiently or maintain our
accounting and financial reporting effectively.

        We face intense competition in the operation of our businesses. The
industries in which we operate are highly competitive. There are numerous
competitors who operate in our markets, many of which have advantages over us,
such as more favorable locations, greater financial and other resources and may
be more established in their respective communities than we are. Competitors may
offer newer or different products or services that our customers may find more
attractive.

        We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully
realize our deferred tax asset. We and certain of our subsidiaries have
significant NOLs and other tax attributes. At December 31, 2005, we have
recognized a deferred tax asset of $1,135,100,000 in respect of these tax
attributes. If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we will not
be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the deferred tax asset.

        Weather related conditions and significant natural disasters, including
hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes and hailstorms could adversely
affect our business. The occurrence of natural disasters may impact our
wineries, real estate holdings and manufacturing operations, interfere with our
ability to obtain raw materials, sell our products and provide service or
realize income from our operations. Any shortage of reliable water and energy
resources or a drop in consumer confidence in the dependability of such
resources in areas where we operate or own land may adversely affect our
business operations, the values of our properties and/or result in government
restrictions that curtail operations.

        We may not be able to insure certain risks economically. We may
experience economic harm if any damage to our properties is not covered by
insurance. We cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we
desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be
financially viable if we make a claim. We may suffer losses that are not covered
under our insurance or reinsurance policies. If an uninsured loss or a loss in
excess of insured limits should occur, results of operations would be adversely
affected.

        We may reduce or cease to pay dividends on our common shares. We paid
cash dividends of $0.25 per common share in 2005 and 2004. However, we cannot
assure you that we will pay dividends on our common shares in the future or, if
we do, the amount of such dividends. The payment of dividends on our common
shares in the future is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and
will depend upon general business conditions, the availability of our NOLs,
legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors
that our Board of Directors may deem to be relevant. In connection with the
declaration of dividends or the making of distributions on, or the purchase,
redemption or other acquisition of our common shares, we are required to comply
with certain restrictions contained in certain of our debt instruments.

       Our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions. We and certain of
our subsidiaries have significant NOLs and other tax attributes, the amount and
availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and
uncertainties. In order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in
ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our
certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the
ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through
attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the
ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from
acquiring additional common shares. The restriction will remain until the
earliest of (a) December 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal
Revenue Code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of
our taxable year to which these tax attributes may no longer be carried forward.
The restriction may be waived by our Board of Directors. Shareholders are
advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult
their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our
common shares approaches the proscribed level.

                                       24


Item 1B