Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Recent legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect Jefferies business.”




Net Capital Requirements.   U.S. registered broker-dealers are subject to the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule (the “Net Capital Rule”), which specifies minimum net capital requirements.  Jefferies U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Jefferies LLC and Jefferies Execution Services, Inc. (“Jefferies Execution”), are registered broker-dealers and are subject to the Net Capital Rule.  Jefferies LLC and Jefferies Execution have elected to compute their minimum net capital requirement in accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital Requirement” as permitted by the Net Capital Rule, which provides that a broker-dealer shall not permit its net capital, as defined, to be less than the greater of 2% of its aggregate debit balances (primarily customer-related receivables) or $250,000 ($1.5 million for prime brokers).  Furthermore, Jefferies LLC is a registered Introducing Broker with the CFTC and is subject to the CFTC’s minimum financial requirements.  Under the CFTC’s minimum financial requirements, an Introducing Broker must maintain adjusted net capital equal to or in excess of the greater of (A) $45,000 or (B) since Jefferies LLC is also a registered broker-dealer, the amount of net capital required by the Net Capital Rule.  Compliance with the Net Capital Rule could limit operations of Jefferies broker-dealers, such as underwriting and trading activities, that require the use of significant amounts of capital, and may also restrict their ability to make loans, advances, dividends and other payments.  In addition, Jefferies LLC is subject to the rules and regulations of various exchanges, clearing organizations and other regulatory agencies applicable to Introducing Brokers, which may affect its ability as an Introducing Broker to make capital and certain other distributions.




  



5







  










U.S. registered FCMs are subject to the CFTC’s minimum financial requirements for futures commission merchants and introducing brokers.  Jefferies Bache, LLC, a U.S. FCM subsidiary, is registered and subject to the minimum financial requirements.  Under the minimum financial requirements, an FCM must maintain adjusted net capital equal to or in excess of the greater of (A) $1,000,000 or (B) the FCM’s risk-based capital requirements totaling (1) eight percent of the total risk margin requirement for positions carried by the FCM in customer accounts, plus (2) eight percent of the total risk margin requirement for positions carried by the FCM in noncustomer accounts.  An FCM’s ability to make capital and certain other distributions is subject to the rules and regulations of various exchanges, clearing organizations and other regulatory agencies which may have capital requirements that are greater than the CFTC’s.




Jefferies subsidiaries that are registered swap dealers will become subject to capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act once they become final.  For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Recent legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect Jefferies business.”




See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 28 to consolidated financial statements for additional information on net capital calculations.




Regulation outside the United States.  Jefferies is an active participant in the international capital markets, engage in commodity futures brokerage and provide investment banking services throughout the world, but primarily in Europe and Asia.  As is true in the U.S., Jefferies subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulations promulgated and enforced by, among other regulatory bodies, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Japan Financial Services Agency and the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  Every country in which Jefferies does business imposes laws, rules and regulations similar to those in the U.S., including with respect to some form of capital adequacy rules, customer protection rules, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery rules, compliance with other applicable trading and investment banking regulations and similar regulatory reform packages in response to the credit and liquidity crisis of 2007 and 2008.  For additional information see Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Extensive international regulation of Jefferies business limits its activities, and, if Jefferies violates these regulations, it may be subject to significant penalties.”




Beef Processing




Business Description




Our beef processing operations are conducted through our 78.9% ownership of National Beef Packing Company, LLC, one of the largest beef processing companies in the U.S., accounting for approximately 14.5% of the 2013 federally inspected steer and heifer slaughter as reported by the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”).  National Beef, headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri, processes, packages and delivers fresh and frozen beef and beef by-products for sale to customers in the U.S. and international markets.  National Beef’s products include boxed beef, ground beef, hides, tallow, and other beef and beef by-products with approximately 87% of National Beef’s revenues being generated from the sale of fresh beef.  The net book value of our investment in National Beef was $793.7 million at December 31, 2013.




National Beef operates a wet blue tanning facility that sells processed hides to tanners that produce finished leather for the automotive, luxury goods, apparel and furniture industries.  Wet blue tanning refers to the first step in processing raw and brine-cured hides into tanned leather.  National Beef recently spent approximately $40.0 million to rebuild the tannery, while significantly expanding its capacity and capabilities; the plant is outfitted with automated production and packaging technology and is expected to be fully operational in 2014.  The tannery is capable of producing 60,000 hides per week making it the largest in the world.




National Beef owns Kansas City Steak Company, LLC, which sells portioned beef and other products to customers in the food service and retail channels as well as direct to consumers through the internet and direct mail.  National Beef also owns a refrigerated and livestock transportation company that provides transportation services for National Beef and third parties.




Sales and Marketing




National Beef markets its products to national and regional retailers, including supermarket chains, independent grocers, club stores, wholesalers and distributors, food service providers and distributors, further processors and the United States military.  In addition, National Beef sells beef by-products to the variety meat, feed processing, fertilizer and pet food industries.  National Beef exports products to more than 25 countries; export sales currently represent approximately 13% of annual revenues.  In 2013, Walmart represented approximately 5% of National Beef’s revenues, and its top 10 customers accounted for approximately 26% of revenues.




  



6







  










National Beef emphasizes the sale of higher-margin, value-added products, which include branded boxed beef, consumer-ready beef, portion control beef and further processed hides.  National Beef believes its value-added products can command higher prices than commodity products because of National Beef’s ability to consistently meet product specifications, based on quality, trim, weight, size, breed or other factors, tailored to the needs of its customers.  In addition to the value-added brands that National Beef owns, National Beef licenses the use of Certified Angus Beef®, a registered trademark of Certified Angus Beef LLC, and Certified Hereford Beef®, a registered trademark of Certified Hereford Beef LLC.




During 2013, Walmart discontinued using National Beef as a provider of its consumer-ready beef products.  National Beef has two consumer-ready processing facilities, one of which was completely dedicated to Walmart’s business and the other substantially so dedicated.  Total consumer-ready revenues were approximately 7% of National Beef consolidated revenues during 2012, but as a value-added product, consumer-ready products have historically constituted a higher percentage of National Beef’s gross margin.  Since 2008, consumer-ready products have represented from 10% to 26% of National Beef’s total gross margin, and were at the higher end of that range in 2012 due, in part, to reduced gross margin from other National Beef products.  National Beef continues to pursue replacement business for its consumer-ready facilities; however, it may not be able to fully replace the operating cash flow generated by these facilities in the near future, if at all.  During 2013, the two consumer-ready facilities operated at reduced levels, and continue to do so.




The demand for beef products is generally strongest in the spring and summer months.




Raw Materials and Procurement




The primary raw material for the processing plants is live cattle. The domestic beef industry is characterized by cattle prices that change daily based on seasonal consumption patterns, overall supply and demand for beef and other proteins, cattle inventory levels, weather and other factors.




National Beef has entered into a cattle supply agreement with U.S. Premium Beef, LLC (“USPB”), the current owner of a 15.1% interest in National Beef that sold a substantial portion of its ownership interest to us.  USPB has agreed to supply, and National Beef has agreed to purchase through USPB from the members of USPB, 735,385 head of cattle per year (subject to adjustment), based on pricing grids furnished by National Beef to the members of USPB.  National Beef believes the pricing grids are based on terms that could be obtained from an unaffiliated party.  The cattle supply agreement extends through December 31, 2017, with automatic, but optional one year extensions.  During 2013, National Beef purchased approximately 20% of the total cattle it processed from USPB members pursuant to the cattle supply agreement.  National Beef also purchased additional cattle from certain USPB members outside of the cattle supply agreement as well as from hundreds of other cattle producing suppliers.

 

Processing Facilities




National Beef owns three beef processing facilities located in Liberal, Kansas, Dodge City, Kansas, and Brawley, California.  The Liberal and Dodge City facilities can each process approximately 6,000 cattle per day.  During 2013, after exhausting all opportunities to improve the operating performance of the Brawley beef processing facility, National Beef decided that it will close the facility on or around April 4, 2014.  Subsequent to closing the plant, National Beef plans to hold the plant in “mothballed” status indefinitely.  See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for more information.




National Beef owns consumer-ready facilities in Hummels Wharf, Pennsylvania (approximately 79,000 square feet) and Moultrie, Georgia (approximately 114,000 square feet), and the wet blue tanning facility in St. Joseph, Missouri (approximately 221,000 square feet).  The Kansas City Steak processing facility is located in Kansas City, Kansas (approximately 63,000 square feet).

 

Competition

 

Competitive conditions exist both in the purchase of live cattle, as well as in the sale of beef products.  Beef products compete with other protein sources, including pork and poultry, but National Beef’s principal competition comes from other beef processors.  National Beef believes the principal competitive factors in the beef processing industry are price, quality, food safety, customer service, product distribution, technological innovations (such as food safety interventions and packaging technologies) and brand loyalty.  Some of National Beef’s competitors have substantially larger beef operations, greater financial and other resources and wider brand recognition for their products.




  



7







  







 

Regulation and Environmental

 

National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by the USDA including its Food Safety and Inspection Service (“FSIS”) and its Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (“GIPSA”), the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and other federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, safety, distribution, advertising and labeling of its products.

 

National Beef is subject to the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921 (“PSA”).  Among other things, this statute generally requires National Beef to make full payment for livestock purchases not later than the close of business the day after the purchase and transfer of possession or determination of the purchase price.  Under the PSA, National Beef must hold in trust for the benefit of unpaid livestock suppliers all livestock purchased until the sellers have received full payment.  At December 31, 2013, National Beef has obtained from an insurance company a surety bond in the amount of $49.4 million to satisfy these requirements.

 

The Dodge City and Liberal facilities are subject to Title V permitting pursuant to the Federal Clean Air Act and the Kansas Air Quality Act.  The Liberal facility permit expired on January 25, 2010, but has been administratively extended pending renewal by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment.  The Brawley and St. Joseph facilities are subject to secondary air permits which are in place.  The Dodge City, Liberal, Brawley, Hummels Wharf and Moultrie facilities are subject to Clean Air Act Risk Management Plan requirements relating to the use of ammonia as a refrigerant.

 

All of National Beef’s plants are indirect dischargers of wastewater to publicly owned treatment works and are subject to requirements under the federal Clean Water Act, state and municipal laws, as well as agreements or permits with municipal or county authorities.  Upon renewal of these agreements and permits, National Beef is from time to time required to make capital expenditures to upgrade or expand wastewater treatment facilities to address new and more stringent discharge requirements imposed at the time of renewal.  Storm water discharges from National Beef’s plants are also regulated by state and local authorities.

 

All of National Beef’s facilities generate solid wastestreams including small quantities of hazardous wastes.  National Beef is subject to laws that provide for strict, and in certain circumstances joint and several, liability for remediation of hazardous substances at contaminated sites; however, National Beef has not received any demands that it has any liability at sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund”) or state counterparts.  All plants are subject to community right to know reporting requirements under the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which requires yearly filings as to the substances used on facility premises.

 

Employees

 

National Beef has approximately 9,200 employees, of which approximately 6,700 are currently represented by collective bargaining agreements.  Approximately 2,700 employees at the Liberal plant are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in December 2017.  Approximately 2,700 employees at the Dodge City plant are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in December 2016.  Approximately 1,100 employees at the Brawley plant are jointly represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union and the Teamsters International Union under a collective bargaining agreement that was scheduled to expire in December 2013 but was extended indefinitely prior to the expiration.  Approximately 150 employees at the St. Joseph plant are represented by the United Cereal Workers of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union under a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in May 2014. 




  



8







  










Other Operations




Manufacturing




The Company’s manufacturing operations are conducted through Idaho Timber, LLC and Conwed Plastics, LLC.




Idaho Timber is engaged in the manufacture and/or distribution of various wood products, including the following principal product lines:  remanufacturing dimension lumber; remanufacturing, bundling and bar coding of home center boards for large retailers; and production of pine dimension lumber and 5/4” radius-edge, pine decking.  These products are produced at plants located in Arkansas, Florida, Idaho, Louisiana, New Mexico, North Carolina and Texas.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, Idaho Timber had revenues of $205.4 million and pre-tax income of $9.6 million.  The net book value of our investment in Idaho Timber was $68.1 million at December 31, 2013.




Idaho Timber owns and operates seven plants, two sawmills that principally produce dimension lumber and decking products and one sawmill that produces split-rail fencing.  These ten facilities in the aggregate have approximately 922,000 square feet of manufacturing and office space, covering approximately 214 acres.  One plant is principally dedicated to home center board products and the remaining plants principally produce remanufactured dimension lumber products.




Conwed Plastics manufactures and markets lightweight plastic netting used for building and construction, erosion control, packaging, agricultural purposes, carpet padding, filtration, consumer products and other purposes.  These products are primarily used for containment purposes, reinforcement of other products, packaging for produce and meats, various types of filtration and erosion prevention.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, Conwed Plastics had revenues of $105.4 million and pre-tax income of $15.3 million.  The net book value of our investment in Conwed Plastics was $64.4 million at December 31, 2013.




Our plastic products are marketed both domestically and internationally, with approximately 20% of 2013 revenues generated by customers from Europe, Latin America, Japan and Australia.  Manufacturing facilities are located in Minnesota, Georgia, Illinois, Virginia and Genk, Belgium (totaling approximately 677,000 square feet).  The cost of the principal raw material used in its products, polypropylene, has increased by approximately 63% over the last four years, a continuing trend that started in 2002.  The price of polypropylene has historically fluctuated with the price of oil and natural gas but growing economies in China and India have resulted in increased demand for raw materials and raised prices globally.

 

Energy Projects




During the past few years, we have been seeking to develop a number of large scale domestic energy projects.  These projects plan to use gasification technology to convert different types of low grade fossil fuels into clean energy products.  We have also invested in an onshore liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) project.  We have expensed costs to investigate, evaluate and obtain various permits and approvals for our energy projects of $91.7 million, $33.6 million and $34.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.




Although there are a number of large scale projects we are currently investigating, we are not obligated to develop any of the projects, and no assurance can be given that we will be successful in fully developing any of these projects.  Any project that we might develop would likely require a significant equity investment, which we presently do not intend to fund by ourselves, the acquisition of substantial non-recourse borrowings to build the projects (total development costs for these types of projects range from $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion), the procurement of purchase commitments for long-term supplies of feedstock, long-term commitments from purchasers of the output, various permits and regulatory approvals and significant technological and engineering expertise to implement.  The investigation, evaluation and financing of these large scale projects will take years to complete.




We are currently evaluating the development of a gasification project which would be built in Louisiana by the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Lake Charles Clean Energy, LLC (“LCCE”), for an estimated total cost of between $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion.  LCCE has been awarded $1.561 billion in tax exempt bonds to support the development of the project, which would be issued by the Lake Charles Harbor and Terminal District of Lake Charles, Louisiana, $128.0 million of investment tax credits and received a $238.0 million federal government grant for carbon capture and sequestration.  Receipt of these awards and grants are contingent upon satisfaction of numerous regulatory and other conditions.  We are not obligated to make equity contributions to LCCE until it completes its investigation, the project is approved by our Board of Directors and significant financing has been obtained from third parties, which has not yet been arranged.  The Lake Charles project is a new chemical manufacturing facility that plans to use proven quench gasification technology to produce various products from petroleum coke, a low grade solid fuel source.  The primary products to be produced by the Lake Charles project include methanol and hydrogen.  LCCE has entered into offtake agreements for the majority of its production, and has also entered into a 20-year contract for the sale of its entire carbon dioxide by-product stream which would be used for enhanced oil recovery.




  



9







  










In July 2009, two of our other prospective gasification projects, one in Indiana and the other in Mississippi, were selected by the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) to proceed to detailed due diligence and negotiations of terms and conditions necessary for the DOE to issue conditional commitments for loan guarantees aggregating up to $3.6 billion.  While these commitments represent important milestones in the selection process, the guarantees are subject to detailed and extensive due diligence by the DOE and no assurance can be given that a loan guaranty for either project will ultimately be given.




One of our subsidiaries has acquired a leasehold interest and certain permits to construct and operate an onshore LNG export terminal and associated facilities in Warrenton, Oregon.  The project would include construction of an offshore dock and berth and onshore facilities to store up to 480,000 cubic meters of LNG.  The current plan includes construction of an approximate 86 mile long natural gas pipeline to connect to the U.S. natural gas transmission grid.  A pre-filing request for an LNG export terminal was submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in 2012.  We have applied for and received from the DOE a license to export natural gas to Free Trade Agreement countries.  Numerous regulatory permits and approvals and acquisitions of rights of way for the terminal and the pipeline have been submitted to and are under review by various government agencies.  Construction of the project cannot begin until all required permits are received and significant financing from third parties has been secured, which has not yet been arranged.




Asset Management




During 2013, we formed Leucadia Asset Management (“LAM”), a registered investment advisor, and have thus far formed two divisions.  The Global Macro division was formed upon the transfer of certain employees from Jefferies to LAM, and a second division was created upon the acquisition of Topwater Capital, a first-loss managed account platform.  As the advisor and/or general partner to various private investment funds or other types of investment vehicles, LAM will provide advisory, portfolio management and operational services to accredited investors and/or qualified purchasers.  Once an investment vehicle is formed, it is expected that one of our subsidiaries will be an initial or major investor.  LAM will receive compensation in the form of management fees and/or a performance fee based on investment returns generated for the investors.




Real Estate




We own approximately 31.4% of the outstanding common stock of HomeFed Corporation.  In addition, as a result of a 1998 distribution to all of our shareholders, approximately 9.4% of HomeFed is owned by our Chairman.  HomeFed is currently engaged, directly and through subsidiaries, in the investment in and development of residential real estate projects in California.  We account for our investment in HomeFed under the equity method of accounting.  At December 31, 2013, our investment had a carrying value of $52.9 million, which is included in Loans to and investments in associated companies.  HomeFed is a public company traded on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board (Symbol: HOFD).  Detailed financial and other information about HomeFed may be found on its website (www.homefedcorporation.com).  See recent events below for a description of an agreement signed in February 2014 to sell certain assets to HomeFed.

 
 




  



10







  







 
 

Other Investments




Berkadia




Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC is a commercial mortgage banking and servicing joint venture formed in 2009 with Berkshire Hathaway.  We and Berkshire Hathaway each contributed $217.2 million of equity capital to the joint venture and each have a 50% equity interest in Berkadia.  At December 31, 2013, the net book value of our investment in Berkadia was $182.6 million.  Through December 31, 2013, cumulative cash distributions received from this investment aggregated $229.7 million.




Berkadia originates commercial real estate loans for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and the FHA using their underwriting guidelines, and will typically sell the loan to such entities shortly after it is funded.  Provided Berkadia adheres to their guidelines, these government-related entities must purchase the loan at the face amount plus accrued interest with Berkadia retaining the mortgage servicing rights.  In addition, as a condition to Fannie Mae’s delegation of responsibility for underwriting, originating and servicing of loans, Berkadia assumes a shared loss position throughout the term of each loan sold to Fannie Mae, with a maximum loss percentage of approximately one-third of the original principal balance.




Berkadia also originates and brokers commercial mortgage loans which are not part of the government agency programs.  Berkadia has a portfolio of loans that provide interim financing to borrowers who intend to refinance the loan with longer-term loans from an eligible government agency or other third party (“Bridge loans”).  Berkadia may also from time to time originate and broker loans intended to be conveyed into CMBS transactions sponsored by third parties (“CMBS loans”).  Bridge loans are typically floating rate loans with 1 to 3 year maturities; CMBS loans are typically 10 year fixed rate loans that Berkadia may broker to another CMBS lender or may originate and  hold for 3 to 6 months pending sale to a securitization vehicle.  At December 31, 2013, $625.0 million of such loans were outstanding, substantially all of which were Bridge loans.




At the end of 2012, Berkadia acquired Hendricks & Partners, a multifamily investment sales business, and renamed the business Hendricks-Berkadia.  This business provides services related to the acquisition and disposition of multifamily real estate projects, including brokerage services, asset review, market research, financial analysis and due diligence support.




Berkadia is a servicer of commercial real estate loans in the U.S., performing primary, master and special servicing functions for U.S. government agency programs, commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions (“CMBS”), banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions.  Berkadia is an approved servicer of loans for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae and the FHA.  As of December 31, 2013, Berkadia serviced approximately 28,000 loans with an unpaid principal balance of $238.0 billion.




As a servicer, Berkadia is frequently responsible for managing, on behalf of its investors and borrowers, the balances that are maintained in custodial accounts for the purposes of collecting and distributing principal and interest, and for managing and disbursing various reserve accounts related to the mortgaged properties among other things.  Berkadia derives certain economic benefits from administering these custodial accounts.  Such balances totaled in excess of $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2013.


Berkadia is required under its servicing agreements to maintain certain minimum servicer ratings or qualifications from the rating agencies.  A downgrade below a certain level may give rise to the right of a customer or trustee of a securitized transaction to terminate Berkadia as servicer.  Berkadia currently maintains approvals or ratings from Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings, Standard & Poor’s, Morningstar Credit Ratings and Dominion Bond Rating Services.  These ratings currently exceed the minimum ratings required by the related servicing agreements.  Ratings issued by the rating agencies can be withdrawn or lowered at any time.  In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac retain broad discretion to terminate Berkadia as a seller/servicer without cause.




Garcadia




Garcadia is a joint venture between us and Garff Enterprises, Inc. that owns and operates 21 automobile dealerships comprised of domestic and foreign automobile makers.  The Garcadia joint venture agreement specifies that we and Garff shall have equal board representation and equal votes on all matters affecting Garcadia, and that all cash flows from Garcadia will be allocated 65% to us and 35% to Garff, with the exception of one dealership from which we receive 83% of all cash flows and four other dealerships from which we receive 71% of all cash flows.  Garcadia’s strategy is to acquire automobile dealerships in primary or secondary market locations meeting its specified return criteria.  We have received cash distributions of fees and earnings aggregating $33.1 million, $24.4 million and $10.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  In addition, we own the land for certain dealerships and lease it to the dealerships for rent aggregating $7.1 million, $6.0 million and $5.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  At December 31, 2013, our investment in Garcadia was classified as an investment in associated company with a carrying value of $120.0 million, and our investment in the land leased to the dealerships was classified as other assets with a carrying value of $77.2 million.




  



11







  










Linkem




We own approximately 40% of the common shares of Linkem S.p.A., a fixed wireless broadband services provider in Italy, and €58.9 million principal amount of a 5% convertible note due in 2018 (interest can be paid in cash or in kind), for an aggregate cash investment of $219.6 million.  On an if-converted basis, we would own 53% of the common shares of Linkem.




Linkem was established in 2001 to deploy and operate WiFi hotspots in airports and other locations in Italy.  In 2008, Linkem acquired wireless spectrum licenses in the 3.5GHz band and launched Italy’s first commercial 4G wireless service.  Unlike the U.S. and most of Western Europe, Italy does not have a national cable television system; as a result, Italy’s broadband penetration rate is among the lowest in Europe, and the vast majority of residential broadband service is DSL, which relies on legacy copper telephone lines.  Linkem offers fixed wireless broadband services at speeds comparable to DSL but priced at a discount.




Linkem owns or has exclusive rights to spectrum holdings of 84MHz covering approximately 80% of the population and 42MHz covering all of Italy.  Linkem has signed agreements with several large telecommunication companies for the use of their infrastructure, providing Linkem access to over 30,000 wireless towers throughout Italy.  At December 31, 2013, Linkem’s network includes base stations deployed on over 1,090 wireless towers that can reach over 35% of the population.  Linkem has over 164,000 subscribers for its services.   Linkem plans to increase its network coverage across Italy over the coming years as it adds subscribers; expansion and customer acquisition costs are expected to result in operating losses over the next few years.  We account for Linkem under the equity method of accounting and at December 31, 2013, the net book value of our investment including the convertible note was $173.6 million.




Recent Events




In December 2013, we entered into an agreement to sell Premier Entertainment Biloxi LLC (“Premier”), the owner of the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino Biloxi (“Hard Rock Biloxi”), through which we had conducted our gaming entertainment operations, for cash consideration of $250.0 million.  Closing of the transaction is subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions, and is not expected to occur until the second quarter of 2014.  As a result, our gaming entertainment segment has been classified as a discontinued operation.




In February 2014, we entered into an agreement to sell to HomeFed substantially all of our real estate properties and operations, an investment in an associated company and cash of approximately $18.0 million (subject to adjustment), in exchange for 7.5 million newly issued HomeFed common shares.  The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2014.  The additional shares will increase our economic ownership interest in HomeFed to 65%; however, we have agreed to limit our voting rights such that we will not be able to vote more than 45% of HomeFed’s total voting securities voting on any matter.  We have also entered into a stockholders agreement that will limit our ability to increase our interest in HomeFed or dispose of our interest in HomeFed, as well as a registration rights agreement with respect to our HomeFed shares.




Financial Information about Segments




Our reportable segments consist of the consolidated operating units identified above, which offer different products and services and are managed separately.  Other operations primarily consist of manufacturing, energy projects, asset management, real estate and, for periods prior to their spin-off to shareholders in February 2013, our wineries.  Associated companies include equity interests in other entities that we account for under the equity method of accounting.  Financial information regarding our reportable segments is contained in Note 32, Segment Information, in our consolidated financial statements.




Item 1A.                      Risk Factors.




Our business is subject to a number of risks.  You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common shares.  The risks set out below are not the only risks we face.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.




  



12







  










Future acquisitions and dispositions of our operations and investments are possible, changing the components of our assets and liabilities, and if unsuccessful could reduce the value of our common shares.  Any future acquisitions or dispositions may result in significant changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities.  Consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may be affected by factors different from those affecting our financial condition, results of operations and trading price at the present time.




The change of principal executive officers of Leucadia may cause Leucadia’s investment results to be less successful than in the past. Prior to the acquisition of Jefferies, our principal executive officers held their positions for thirty-five years.  After the Jefferies acquisition, Richard Handler became our Chief Executive Officer and Brian Friedman became our President, while continuing their current positions as the principal executive officers of Jefferies.  There can be no assurance that our new principal executive officers will be have the same degree of success in the future, and if they do not our financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares may be adversely affected.




We face numerous risks and uncertainties as we expand our business.  We expect the growth of our business to come primarily from internal expansion and through acquisitions and strategic partnering.  As we expand our business, there can be no assurance that financial controls, the level and knowledge of personnel, operational abilities, legal and compliance controls and other corporate support systems will be adequate to manage our business and growth.  The ineffectiveness of any of these controls or systems could adversely affect our business and prospects.  In addition, if we acquire new businesses and introduce new products, we face numerous risks and uncertainties integrating their controls and systems, including financial controls, accounting and data processing systems, management controls and other operations.  A failure to integrate these systems and controls, and even an inefficient integration of these systems and controls, could adversely affect our business and prospects.




Recent legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect Jefferies business.  In the last five years, there has been significant legislation and increased regulation affecting the financial services industry.  These legislative and regulatory initiatives affect not only Jefferies, but also its competitors and certain of its clients.  These changes could have an effect on Jefferies revenue and profitability, limit Jefferies ability to pursue certain business opportunities, impact the value of assets that it holds, require Jefferies to change certain business practices, impose additional costs on Jefferies and otherwise adversely affect its business.  Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that legislation and regulation will not eventually have an adverse effect on Jefferies business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.




The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010.  Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations adopted and to be adopted by the SEC and CFTC introduce a comprehensive regulatory regime for swaps and security-based swaps (both of which are defined terms) and parties that deal in derivatives.  Jefferies registered two of its subsidiaries as swap dealers with the CFTC and the NFA and may register one or more subsidiaries as security-based swap dealers with the SEC.  The new laws and regulations will subject certain swaps and security-based swaps to clearing and exchange trading requirements and will subject swap dealers and security-based swap dealers to significant new burdens, including (i) capital and margin requirements, (ii) reporting, recordkeeping and internal business conduct requirements, (iii) external business conduct requirements in dealings with swap counterparties (which are particularly onerous when the counterparty is a special entity such as a federal, state, or municipal entity, an ERISA plan, a government employee benefit plan or an endowment), and (iv) large trader position reporting and certain position limit requirements.  The final rules under Title VII, including those rules that have already been adopted, for both cleared and uncleared swap transactions will impose increased capital and margin requirements on Jefferies registered entities and require additional operational and compliance costs and resources that will likely affect Jefferies business.

 

Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (Volcker Rule) and section 716 of the Dodd-Frank Act (swaps push-out rule) limit proprietary trading of certain securities and swaps by banking entities such as banks, bank holding companies and similar institutions.  Although Jefferies is not a banking entity and is not otherwise subject to these rules, some of Jefferies clients and many of Jefferies counterparties are banks or entities affiliated with banks and will be subject to these restrictions.  These sections of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations that are adopted to implement them could negatively affect the swaps and securities markets by reducing their depth and liquidity and thereby affect pricing in these markets.  Other negative effects could result from an expansive extraterritorial application of the Dodd-Frank Act in general or the Volcker Rule in particular and/or insufficient international coordination with respect to adoption of rules for derivatives and other financial reforms in other jurisdictions.  We will not know the exact impact that these changes in the markets will have on Jefferies business until after the final rules are implemented.




  



13







  










The Dodd-Frank Act, in addressing systemic risks to the financial system, charges the Federal Reserve with drafting enhanced regulatory requirements for systemically important bank holding companies and certain other nonbank financial companies designated as systemically important by the Financial Stability Oversight Council.  The enhanced requirements proposed by the Federal Reserve include capital requirements, liquidity requirements, limits on credit exposure concentrations and risk management requirements.  We do not believe that Jefferies will be deemed to be a systemically important nonbank financial company under the new legislation and therefore will not be directly impacted.  However, there will be an indirect impact to Jefferies to the extent that the new regulations apply to its competitors, counterparties and certain of its clients.

 

Extensive international regulation of Jefferies business limits its activities, and, if Jefferies violates these regulations, it may be subject to significant penalties.  The financial services industry is subject to extensive laws, rules and regulations in every country in which Jefferies operates.  Firms that engage in securities and derivatives trading, commodity futures brokerage, wealth and asset management and investment banking must comply with the laws, rules and regulations imposed by national and state governments and regulatory and self-regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over such activities.  Such laws, rules and regulations cover all aspects of the financial services business, including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and corruption efforts, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.




Each of Jefferies regulators supervises its business activities to monitor compliance with such laws, rules and regulations in the relevant jurisdiction.  In addition, if there are instances in which Jefferies regulators question its compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, they may investigate the facts and circumstances to determine whether Jefferies has complied.  At any moment in time, Jefferies may be subject to one or more such investigation or similar reviews.  At this time, all such investigations and similar reviews are insignificant in scope and immaterial to Jefferies.  However, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the operations of Jefferies businesses will not violate such laws, rules, and regulations and that related investigations and similar reviews could result in adverse regulatory requirements, regulatory enforcement actions and/or fines.




Additional legislation, changes in rules, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules, or the entering into businesses that subject Jefferies to new rules and regulations may directly affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.




Jefferies continues to monitor the impact that the Basel Accords will have on Jefferies UK regulated entities.  The update issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2010, known as Basel III, recommended strengthening capital and liquidity rules.  In response, the European Commission is in the process of implementing amendments to its Capital Requirements Directive (“CRD”) putting into law CRD IV and the Capital Requirements Regulation (“CRR”).  Changes under CRD IV and CRR became effective January 1, 2014.  Jefferies UK subsidiaries impacted by these changes are in compliance with the new regulations.




The European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) was enacted in August 2012 and, in common with the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S., is intended, among other things, to reduce counterparty risk by requiring standardized over-the-counter derivatives be cleared through a central counterparty and reported to regulator appointed trade repositories.  EMIR is being introduced in phases in the U.K. and, based on current published dates, will be substantively implemented by the end of 2014.

 

Changing conditions in financial markets and the economy could result in decreased revenues, losses or other adverse consequences.  As a global securities and investment banking firm, global or regional changes in the financial markets or economic conditions could adversely affect Jefferies business in many ways, including the following:

 
 





·  


A market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions executed for customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues Jefferies receives from commissions and spreads.








·  


Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of transactions in which Jefferies provides underwriting, financial advisory and other services.  Jefferies investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting or placement fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which Jefferies participates and could therefore be adversely affected by unfavorable financial or economic conditions.








·  


Adverse changes in the market could lead to losses from principal transactions on Jefferies inventory positions.








·  


Adverse changes in the market could also lead to a reduction in revenues from asset management fees and investment income from managed funds and losses on Jefferies own capital invested in managed funds. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market investment performance by Jefferies funds and portfolio managers could reduce asset management revenues and assets under management and result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors.








·  


Limitations on the availability of credit, such as occurred during 2008, can affect Jefferies ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect Jefferies liquidity and results of operations.








·  


New or increased taxes on compensation payments such as bonuses or on balance sheet items may adversely affect Jefferies profits.








·  


Should one of Jefferies competitors fail, Jefferies security prices and revenue could be negatively impacted based upon negative market sentiment causing customers to cease doing business with Jefferies and Jefferies lenders to cease loaning Jefferies money, which could adversely affect its business, funding and liquidity.




 
 




  



14







  










Unfounded allegations about Jefferies could result in extreme price volatility and price declines in its debt securities and loss of revenue, clients, and employees.  In November 2011, Jefferies became the subject of unfounded allegations and false rumors, including among others those relating to its exposure to European sovereign debt.  Despite the fact that Jefferies was able to dispel such rumors, both its stock and bond prices were significantly impacted.  Its common stock suffered a 20% sell-off in minutes and, consequently, its trading was temporarily suspended, and Jefferies debt-securities prices suffered not only extreme volatility but also record high yields.  In addition, Jefferies operations were impacted as some clients either ceased doing business or temporarily slowed down the level of business they do, thereby decreasing Jefferies revenue stream.  Although Jefferies was able to reverse the negative impact of such unfounded allegations and false rumors, there is no assurance that Jefferies will be able to do so successfully in the future and the potential failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Jefferies business, financial condition and liquidity.

 

The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity.  Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ on August 5, 2011.  A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies, including a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization, could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide.  Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity.

 

In addition, during 2011 and 2012, the possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states could have defaulted on their debt obligations negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets.  The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the European Union’s financial support programs and the possibility that EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could disrupt global markets.  The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity.




A credit-rating agency downgrade could significantly impact Jefferies business.  Maintaining an investment grade credit rating is important to Jefferies business and financial condition.  Jefferies intends to access the capital markets and issue debt securities from time to time; and a decrease in Jefferies credit rating would not only increase its borrowing costs, but could also decrease demand for its debt securities and make a successful financing more difficult.  In addition, in connection with certain over-the-counter derivative contract arrangements and certain other trading arrangements, Jefferies may be required to provide additional collateral to counterparties, exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade.  Such a downgrade could also negatively impact Jefferies bond prices and our stock price.  There can be no assurance that Jefferies credit ratings will not be downgraded by credit-rating agencies.

 

Jefferies principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss.  A considerable portion of Jefferies revenues is derived from trading in which Jefferies acts as principal.  Jefferies may incur trading losses relating to the purchase, sale or short sale of fixed income, high yield, international, convertible, and equity securities and futures and commodities for its own account.  In any period, Jefferies may experience losses on its inventory positions as a result of price fluctuations, lack of trading volume, and illiquidity.  From time to time, Jefferies may engage in a large block trade in a single security or maintain large position concentrations in a single security, securities of a single issuer, securities of issuers engaged in a specific industry, or securities from issuers located in a particular country or region.  In general, because Jefferies inventory is marked to market on a daily basis, any adverse price movement in these securities could result in a reduction of Jefferies revenues and profits.  In addition, Jefferies may engage in hedging transactions that if not successful, could result in losses.




Increased competition may adversely affect Jefferies revenues, profitability and staffing.  All aspects of Jefferies business are intensely competitive.  Jefferies competes directly with a number of bank holding companies and commercial banks, other brokers and dealers, investment banking firms and other financial institutions.  In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increasing competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations.  Jefferies believes that the principal factors affecting competition involve market focus, reputation, the abilities of professional personnel, the ability to execute the transaction, relative price of the service and products being offered, bundling of products and services and the quality of service.  Increased competition or an adverse change in Jefferies competitive position could lead to a reduction of business and therefore a reduction of revenues and profits.




  



15







  










Competition also extends to the hiring and retention of highly skilled employees.  A competitor may be successful in hiring away an employee or group of employees, which may result in Jefferies losing business formerly serviced by such employee or employees.  Competition can also raise Jefferies costs of hiring and retaining the employees Jefferies needs to effectively operate its business.

 

Operational risks may disrupt Jefferies business, result in regulatory action or limit growth.  Jefferies businesses are highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions Jefferies processes have become increasingly complex.  If any of Jefferies financial, accounting or other data processing systems do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in Jefferies internal processes, people or systems, Jefferies could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.  These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond Jefferies control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or Jefferies inability to occupy one or more of our buildings.  The inability of Jefferies systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain its ability to expand its businesses.




Jefferies also faces the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries Jefferies uses to facilitate its securities transactions.  Any such failure or termination could adversely affect Jefferies ability to effect transactions and manage its exposure to risk.




In addition, despite the contingency plans Jefferies has in place, Jefferies ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which they are located.  This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by Jefferies or third parties with which Jefferies conducts business.




Jefferies operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in its computer systems and networks.  Although Jefferies take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, its computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact.  If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize Jefferies or its clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, Jefferies computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in Jefferies, its clients’, its counterparties’ or third parties’ operations.  Jefferies may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify its protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and Jefferies may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance.

 

Jefferies international operations are subject to numerous risks which could adversely impact Jefferies business in many ways.  Jefferies business and operations are expanding globally.  Wherever Jefferies operates, it is subject to legal, regulatory, political, economic and other inherent risks.  The laws and regulations applicable to the securities and investment banking industries differ in each country.  Jefferies inability to remain in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in a particular country could have a significant and negative effect on its business and prospects in that country as well as in other countries.  A political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact Jefferies business and increase volatility in financial markets generally.

 

Legal liability may harm Jefferies business.  Many aspects of Jefferies business involve substantial risks of liability, and in the normal course of business, Jefferies has been named as a defendant or codefendant in lawsuits involving primarily claims for damages.  The risks associated with potential legal liabilities often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.  The expansion of Jefferies business, including increases in the number and size of investment banking transactions and Jefferies expansion into new areas impose greater risks of liability.  In addition, unauthorized or illegal acts of Jefferies employees could result in substantial liability.  Substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause Jefferies significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm Jefferies business and prospects.




Jefferies business is subject to significant credit risk.  In the normal course of Jefferies businesses, Jefferies is involved in the execution, settlement and financing of various customer and principal securities and derivative transactions.  These activities are transacted on a cash, margin or delivery-versus-payment basis and are subject to the risk of counterparty or customer nonperformance.  Although transactions are generally collateralized by the underlying security or other securities, Jefferies still faces the risks associated with changes in the market value of the collateral through settlement date or during the time when margin is extended and the risk of counterparty nonperformance to the extent collateral has not been secured or the counterparty defaults before collateral or margin can be adjusted.  Jefferies may also incur credit risk in its derivative transactions to the extent such transactions result in uncollateralized credit exposure to counterparties.




  



16







  










Jefferies seeks to control the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily.  Jefferies may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or return collateral pledged.  In the case of aged securities failed to receive, Jefferies may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty.  However, there can be no assurances that Jefferies risk controls will be successful.

 

Derivative transactions may expose Jefferies to unexpected risk and potential losses.  Jefferies is party to a number of derivative transactions that require it to deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment.  In a number of cases, Jefferies does not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions.  As a result, Jefferies is subject to the risk that it may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery.  This could cause Jefferies to forfeit the payments due to it under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm.




The prices and availability of key raw materials affects the profitability of our beef processing and manufacturing operations. The supply and market price of cattle purchased by National Beef are dependent upon a variety of factors over which National Beef has no control, including fluctuations in the size of herds maintained by producers, the relative cost of feed and energy, weather and livestock diseases.  A decline in the supply of fed cattle available for National Beef’s Brawley facility was a key factor in the decision to close the plant.  The cost of raw materials used by our manufacturing businesses has increased as a result of a variety of factors, including increased foreign demand. Although our manufacturing subsidiaries are not currently experiencing any shortage of raw materials, if the subsidiaries experience shortages, revenues and profitability could decline.




Outbreaks of disease affecting livestock can adversely affect the supply of cattle and the demand for National Beef’s products.  National Beef is subject to risks relating to animal health and disease control.  An outbreak of disease affecting livestock (such as foot-and-mouth disease or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (“BSE”), commonly referred to as mad cow disease) could result in restrictions on sales of products, restrictions on purchases of livestock from suppliers or widespread destruction of cattle.  The discovery of BSE in the past caused certain countries to restrict or prohibit the importation of beef products.  Outbreaks of diseases, or the perception by the public that an outbreak has occurred, or other concerns regarding diseases, can lead to inadequate supply, cancellation of orders by customers and create adverse publicity, any of which can have a significant negative impact on consumer demand and, as a result, on our consolidated financial position, cash flows and results of operations.

 

If National Beef’s products or products made by others using its products become contaminated or are alleged to be contaminated, National Beef may be subject to product liability claims that could adversely affect its business.  National Beef may be subject to significant liability in excess of insurance policy limits if its products or products made by others using its products causes injury, illness or death.  In addition, National Beef could recall or be required to recall products that are, or are alleged to be, contaminated, spoiled or inappropriately labeled.  Organisms producing food borne illnesses (such as E. coli) could be present in National Beef’s products and result in illness or death if they are not eliminated through further processing or cooking.  Contamination of National Beef’s or its competitors’ products may create adverse publicity or cause consumers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of beef products.  Allegations of product contamination may also be harmful even if they are untrue or result from third-party tampering.  Any of these events may increase costs or decrease demand for beef products, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.




National Beef generally does not enter into long-term contracts with customers; as a result the volumes and prices at which beef products are sold are subject to market forces.  National Beef’s customers generally place orders for products on an as-needed basis and, as a result, their order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future.  The loss of one or more significant customers, a significant decline in the volume of orders from customers or a significant decrease in beef product prices for a sustained period of time could negatively impact cash flows and results of operations.




  



17







  










National Beef’s international operations expose it to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency fluctuations.  Approximately 13% of National Beef’s annual sales are export sales, primarily to Mexico, Japan, South Korea, Canada, China (for hides), Hong Kong, and Taiwan, and on average these sales have a higher margin than domestic sales of similar products.  A reduction in international sales could adversely affect revenues and margins.  Risks associated with international activities include inflation or deflation and changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including changes in currency exchange rates of other countries that may export beef products in competition with National Beef; the closing of borders by foreign countries to product imports due to disease or other perceived health or food safety issues; exchange controls; changes in tariffs; changes in political or economic conditions; trade restrictions and changes in regulatory requirements.  The occurrence of any of these events could increase costs, lower demand for products or limit operations, which could have a significant adverse effect on cash flows, results of operations and future prospects. 




National Beef incurs substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations and could incur additional costs as a result of new regulations or compliance failures that result in civil or criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity.  National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental regulations administered by the EPA and state, local and other authorities with regards to water usage, wastewater and storm water discharge, air emissions and odor, and waste management and disposal.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have serious consequences, including criminal, civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity.  In addition, National Beef incurs and will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to comply with existing and new or more stringent regulations and requirements.  All of National Beef’s processing facilities procure wastewater treatment services from municipal or other regional governmental agencies that are in turn subject to environmental laws and permit limits regarding their water discharges.  As permit limits are becoming more stringent, upgrades and capital improvements to these municipal treatment facilities are likely.  In locations where National Beef is a significant volume discharger, it could be asked to contribute toward the costs of such upgrades or to pay significantly increased water or sewer charges to recoup such upgrade costs.  National Beef may also be required to undertake upgrades and make capital improvements to its own wastewater pretreatment facilities, the cost of which could be significant.  Compliance with environmental regulations has had and will continue to have a significant impact on National Beef’s cash flows and profitability.  In addition, under most environmental laws, most notably the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and analogous state laws, National Beef could be held liable for the cost to investigate or remediate any contamination at properties it owns or operates, or as to which it arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, as such liability is imposed without regard to fault.

 

Failure to replace Walmart’s consumer-ready business would have a significant adverse effect on National Beef’s sales and profitability. Sales to Walmart represented approximately 10% of National Beef’s total net sales during 2012.  Walmart discontinued using National Beef as a provider of its consumer-ready products in 2013.  Total consumer-ready revenues were approximately 7% of National Beef consolidated revenues during 2012, but as a value-added product, consumer-ready products have historically constituted a higher percentage of National Beef’s gross margin.  Since 2008, consumer-ready products have represented from 10% to 26% of National Beef’s total gross margin, and were at the higher end of that range in 2012 due, in part, to reduced gross margin from other National Beef products.  National Beef is currently pursuing replacement business for its consumer-ready facilities; however, it may not be able to fully replace the operating cash flow generated by these facilities.

 

National Beef is subject to extensive governmental regulation and noncompliance with or changes in applicable requirements could adversely affect its business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  National Beef’s operations are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by the USDA, including its FSIS and GIPSA agencies, the FDA, and other federal, state, local and foreign authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, safety, distribution, advertising and labeling of its products.  Recently, food safety practices and procedures in the meat processing industry have been subject to more intense scrutiny and oversight by the USDA.  National Beef is also subject to a variety of immigration, labor and worker safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the hiring and retention of employees.  Failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations could result in administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, fines, interruption of operations, recalls of products or seizures of properties, potential criminal sanctions and personal injury or other damage claims.  These remedies, changes in the applicable laws and regulations or discovery of currently unknown conditions could increase costs, limit business operations and reduce profitability.

 




  



18







  










National Beef’s performance depends on favorable labor relations with its employees, in particular employees represented by collective bargaining agreements.  A substantial number of National Beef’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  A labor-related work stoppage by unionized employees, or employees who become unionized in the future, could limit National Beef’s ability to process and ship products or could increase costs.  Any significant increase in labor costs, deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of National Beef’s locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.




Declines in the U.S. housing market have reduced revenues and profitability of our manufacturing businesses and may continue to do so.  Our manufacturing operations have generated significant revenues when the U.S. housing market was strong.  The weak U.S. housing market during the last few years has resulted in fewer new housing starts, which has adversely impacted revenues and profitability of our manufacturing businesses.  Our manufacturing operations do not expect to return to prior levels of profitability until the U.S. housing market recovers.




The Hard Rock Biloxi is dependent upon patronage of persons living in the Gulf Coast region. The Hard Rock Biloxi primarily seeks to attract patrons from its local geographic area.  Downturns in local and regional economic conditions, an increase in competition in the surrounding area and interruptions caused by hurricanes could negatively impact operating results.




We may not be able to insure certain risks economically.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers or reinsurers will be financially viable if we make a claim.  If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, or if we are required to pay a deductible for an insured loss, results of operations could be adversely affected.  Our gaming entertainment facility has been severely damaged by hurricanes in the past, and it is possible that storms could cause significant damage in the future.  Damages from storms could result in the closing of our facilities to make repairs, resulting in lost business and adversely affecting results of operations.




Increases in mortgage interest rate levels, the lack of available consumer credit and the depressed real estate market have reduced and may continue to reduce consumer demand for certain of our real estate development projects and result in impairment charges.  Due to current depressed economic conditions in the national real estate market, most of our real estate development projects are not being marketed for sale.  If we begin to market our development projects in the future, the ability to successfully attract customers will be highly dependent upon consumers’ ability to finance real estate purchases with affordable loans.  If our estimates of future cash flows for our development projects are less than the carrying amounts, impairment charges would have to be recorded.




We have incurred costs to investigate and evaluate the development of a number of large scale energy projects; however, development of these projects is subject to obtaining significant third-party debt and equity financing, regulatory approvals, the procurement of purchase commitments for long-term supplies of feedstock and securing long-term commitments from purchasers of the output.  Although we have spent significant amounts investigating large scale energy projects, we will not be able to develop these projects without financing from other sources, various regulatory approvals and commitments from third-parties.  The timing of the commencement of construction of any project is also dependent upon the receipt of financing and regulatory approvals.  If we are unable to obtain such financing, approvals or commitments, or alternatively we are unable to monetize a partly or fully permitted project, we will not be able to recover our investment.




If Berkadia does not maintain certain specified ratings from the credit rating agencies it could lose its mortgage servicing rights.  Berkadia is required to maintain specified servicer ratings from the credit rating agencies, and failure to do so would give its customers the right to terminate their mortgage servicing agreements.  If mortgage servicing agreements were terminated as a result of a servicer ratings downgrade, we could lose our entire equity investment.




When Berkadia originates loans for Fannie Mae, it is often required to share in the losses on such loans, which could be in excess of reserved amounts.  Berkadia carries a reserve on its balance sheet for contingent losses on loans originated for Fannie Mae that have loss sharing requirements.  If actual losses exceed amounts reserved, Berkadia’s profitability and cash flows will be reduced.




  



19







  










The loss of or changes in Berkadia’s relationships with U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises and federal agencies would have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s business.  Berkadia’s failure to comply with U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprise or agency requirements may result in its termination as an approved seller/servicer, mortgagee or issuer.  The loss of any such status could have a significant adverse impact on Berkadia’s results of operations, could result in a loss of similar approvals from other U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises or federal agencies and could have other adverse consequences to the business.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac retain broad discretion to terminate Berkadia as a seller/servicer without cause upon notice.




Changes in existing government-sponsored and federal mortgage programs could negatively affect Berkadia’s business.  Berkadia’s ability to generate income through mortgage sales to institutional investors depends in part on programs sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA, which purchase such loans from Berkadia and/or facilitate the issuance of mortgage-backed securities in the secondary market.  The federal government has announced that the continuation of these programs is under review, and that any or all of the government agency programs could be substantially modified or eliminated in the future.  Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction or change in, the operation of those programs would have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s loan origination and servicing business and results of operations.




Berkadia’s special servicing and fee-for-service businesses may be terminated on short notice.  Special servicing for each CMBS transaction is usually controlled by the subordinated bond holder class of the securitization.  The owners of the subordinated bonds may change from time to time, and subordinated bond holders may replace Berkadia with a different special servicer.  Fee-for-service customers are permitted to terminate Berkadia on short notice, usually 30 days.  If Berkadia loses special servicing rights or is terminated by fee-for-service customers, it would negatively impact Berkadia’s results of operations and cash flows.




CMBS loan and Bridge loan programs will expose Berkadia to credit and interest rate risk that it is not subject to with its government agency lending programs.  Unlike its government agency lending programs, Berkadia cannot be assured it will be able to sell CMBS and Bridge loans at par value to a third-party without any exposure to credit or interest rate risk.  If for any reason Berkadia is unable to sell a CMBS loan into the securitization market or if a borrower is unable to refinance a Bridge loan, Berkadia will retain all risks associated with such loan for as long as it owns the loan.  Berkadia may be forced to foreclose on defaulted loans and suffer a loss, or to sell loans to a third party at a discount, either of which would reduce Berkadia’s profitability and cash flows. 




If Berkadia suffered significant losses and was unable to repay its commercial paper borrowings, we would be exposed to loss pursuant to a reimbursement obligation to Berkshire Hathaway.  Berkadia obtains funds generated by commercial paper sales of an affiliate of Berkadia.  All of the proceeds from the commercial paper sales are used by Berkadia to fund new mortgage loans, servicer advances, investments and other working capital requirements.  Repayment of the commercial paper is supported by a $2.5 billion surety policy issued by a Berkshire Hathaway insurance subsidiary and corporate guaranty, and we have agreed to reimburse Berkshire Hathaway for one-half of any losses incurred thereunder.  If Berkadia suffers significant losses and is unable to repay its commercial paper borrowings, we would suffer losses to the extent of its reimbursement obligation to Berkshire Hathaway.  As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding was $2.47 billion.




Berkadia’s business is significantly affected by general economic conditions, particularly in the commercial real estate industry, and could be harmed in the event of a continued economic slowdown, prolonged recession or other market downturn or disruption.  Berkadia’s business and earnings are sensitive to changes in government policies and regulations, changes in interest rates, inflation, deflation, oversupply of real estate properties, fluctuations in the real estate and debt capital markets and developments in national and local economies.  Unfavorable economic conditions could have an adverse effect on Berkadia’s business, including decreasing the demand for new loans and the servicing of loans originated by third parties.




Garcadia’s business is dependent, in part, upon revenue from new and used car sales at its dealerships, and declines in revenues due to industry or other factors could result in reduced profitability, reduced cash flows and/or impairment charges.  Garcadia has recorded impairment charges in the past, principally for goodwill and other intangible assets, and if the automobile industry experiences a downturn in the future additional impairment charges are likely, reducing our profitability.




  



20







  










From time to time we may invest in illiquid securities that are subject to standstill agreements or are otherwise restricted.  From time to time we may invest in securities that are subject to restrictions which prohibit us from selling the subject securities for a period of time.  Although we are not a party to any such agreement currently should we enter into these agreements in the future and need to generate liquidity quickly, such agreements would limit our ability to dispose of the underlying investment while the agreement is effective.




We operate in a variety of industries and market sectors, all of which are very competitive and susceptible to economic downturns and have been adversely affected by recent economic conditions.  We operate in industries that sell commodity products and services, including beef processing and manufacturing, which are very competitive with product pricing often being the most significant factor to customers.  Certain industries have seen a consolidation of the customer base, which tends to increase competition and pricing pressure.  In addition, starting in 2008, the recession and general economic conditions have adversely affected operating results in all of our businesses, which is likely to continue until the economy fully recovers.  The performance of our business units during this period has resulted in lower valuations for our business units, and a worsening of general economic or market conditions could result in a further deterioration in the values of our businesses or investments.




Recent economic conditions have adversely affected most of our operations and investments.  A worsening of current economic conditions could cause a decline in estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by certain of our operations and investments, potentially resulting in impairment charges for long-lived assets.  Certain of our operating businesses and investments have significant investments in long-lived assets, in particular beef processing, manufacturing and gaming entertainment.  Recent economic conditions have resulted in declining revenues for certain of these operations and their property and equipment is not being fully utilized.  As required, we review certain of these assets and investments for potential impairment, and except as otherwise disclosed have not concluded that the book values of these long-lived assets are not recoverable.  If the operating revenues of these businesses deteriorate in the future, and/or we lower our estimates of future cash flows, impairment charges might have to be recorded.




We could experience significant increases in operating costs and reduced profitability due to competition for skilled management and staff employees in our operating businesses.  We compete with many other entities for skilled management and staff employees, including entities that operate in different market sectors than us.  Costs to recruit and retain adequate personnel could adversely affect results of operations.




Extreme weather, loss of electrical power or other forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business.  Natural disasters, fire, terrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could interfere with our operating businesses due to power outages, fuel shortages, water shortages, damage to facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things.  Any of these factors, as well as disruptions to information systems, could have an adverse effect on financial results.




We rely on the security of our information technology systems and those of our third party providers to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. Some of our businesses involve the storage and transmission of customers’ personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information.  While we believe that we have implemented protective measures to effectively secure information and prevent security breaches, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, computer viruses or other unauthorized attempts by third parties to access the proprietary information of our customers.  Information technology breaches and failures could disrupt our ability to function in the normal course of business resulting in lost revenue, the disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential information and the incurrence of remediation costs, resulting in legal and financial exposure.  Moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues.




From time to time we are subject to litigation, for which we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.  We and our subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary, routine litigation incidental to our business or not significant to our consolidated financial position or liquidity.  Although our current assessment is that, other than as disclosed in this report, there is no pending litigation that could have a significant adverse impact, if our assessment proves to be in error, then the outcome of litigation could have a significant impact on our financial statements.




  



21







  










We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize our deferred tax asset, which would also have to be reduced if U.S. federal income tax rates are lowered.  At December 31, 2013, we have recognized a net deferred tax asset of $1.8 billion.  If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset.  If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of our federal income tax net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”), the NOLs would expire unused.  Our projections of future taxable income required to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset reflect numerous assumptions about our operating businesses and investments, and are subject to change as conditions change specific to our business units, investments or general economic conditions.  Changes that are adverse to us could result in the need to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance resulting in a charge to results of operations and a decrease to total stockholders’ equity.  In addition, if U.S. federal income tax rates are lowered, we would be required to reduce our net deferred tax asset with a corresponding reduction to earnings during the period.




If our tax filing positions were to be challenged by federal, state and local or foreign tax jurisdictions, we may not be wholly successful in defending our tax filing positions.  We record reserves for unrecognized tax benefits based on our assessment of the probability of successfully sustaining tax filing positions.  Management exercises significant judgment when assessing the probability of successfully sustaining tax filing positions, and in determining whether a contingent tax liability should be recorded and if so estimating the amount.  If our tax filing positions are successfully challenged, payments could be required that are in excess of reserved amounts or we may be required to reduce the carrying amount of our net deferred tax asset, either of which result could be significant to our Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition or results of operations.




We have indicated our intention to pay dividends at the annual rate of $0.25 per common share, on a quarterly basis.  The payment of dividends in the future is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon general business conditions, legal and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem to be relevant.




Our common shares are subject to transfer restrictions.  We and certain of our subsidiaries have significant NOLs and other tax attributes, the amount and availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and uncertainties.  In order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common shares and the ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common shares from acquiring additional common shares.  The restriction will remain until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2024, (b) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of a taxable year to which these tax benefits may no longer be carried forward.  The restriction may be waived by our Board of Directors on a case by case basis.  Shareholders are advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common shares and consult their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our common shares approaches the proscribed level.








Item 1B