Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    In addition to the other information contained in this
    Form 10-K,
    the following risk factors should be considered carefully in
    evaluating Southwest’s business. The Company’s
    business, financial condition, or results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional
    risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company
    currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and
    operations.


 




    
    



    
      

    
    Southwest’s
    business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft
    fuel. Continued periods of high fuel costs
    and/or
    significant disruptions in the supply of fuel, could adversely
    affect our results of operations.





 


    Airline operators are inherently dependent upon energy to
    operate and, therefore, are impacted by changes in jet fuel
    prices. The cost of fuel, which was at an historically high
    level over the last two years, is largely unpredictable and has
    a significant impact on the Company’s results of
    operations. Jet fuel and oil consumed for fiscal 2006 and 2005
    represented approximately 26 percent and 20 percent of
    Southwest’s operating expenses, respectively. Fuel
    availability, as well as pricing, is also



    
    7



Table of Contents




    impacted by political and economic factors. We do not currently
    anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability;
    however, it is difficult to predict the future availability of
    jet fuel due to the following, among other, factors: dependency
    on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for
    hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; limited
    refining capacity; and the possibility of changes in
    governmental policies on jet fuel production, transportation,
    and marketing. Significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft
    fuel could have a negative impact on the Company’s
    operations and results of operations.


 


    Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, the
    Company’s ability to increase fares is limited, and it is
    not certain that future fuel cost increases can be covered by
    increasing fares. From time to time the Company enters into fuel
    derivative contracts to protect against rising fuel costs.
    Changes in the Company’s overall fuel hedging strategy, the
    ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging (principally
    crude oil, heating oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for
    special hedge accounting, and the effectiveness of the
    Company’s fuel hedges pursuant to highly complex accounting
    rules, are all significant factors impacting the Company’s
    results of operations. For more information on Southwest’s
    fuel hedging arrangements, see “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations,” and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.


 




    
    



    
      

    
    Southwest’s
    business is labor-intensive; we could be adversely affected if
    we are unable to maintain satisfactory relations with any
    unionized or other Employee work group.





 


    The airline business is labor intensive. Wages, salaries, and
    benefits represented approximately 37 percent of the
    Company’s operating expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. In addition, as of December 31,
    2006, approximately 82 percent of the Company’s
    Employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by
    labor unions. The Company’s Ramp, Operations, Provisioning,
    and Freight Agents are subject to an agreement with the
    Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO (“TWU”),
    which becomes amendable on June 30, 2008. However, under
    certain conditions, TWU could elect to give notice to the
    Company by June 1, 2007, of its desire to make the
    agreement amendable on June 30, 2007. During second quarter
    2006, TWU membership voted to not make the contract amendable on
    June 30, 2007. The Company is unable to predict whether
    future votes between now and June 2007 would result in the same
    outcome. The Company’s Pilots are subject to an agreement
    with the Southwest Airlines Pilots’ Association
    (“SWAPA”), which became amendable during September
    2006. The Company and SWAPA recently began discussions on a new
    agreement. Although, historically, the Company’s
    relationships with its Employees have been good, the following
    items could have a significant impact on the Company’s
    results of operations: results of labor contract negotiations,
    employee hiring and retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing
    costs, the impact of work rules, and costs for health care.


 




    
    



    
      

    
    Southwest’s
    business is affected by many changing economic and other
    conditions beyond its control.





 


    Our business, and the airline industry in general, is
    particularly impacted by changes in economic and other
    conditions that are largely outside of our control, including,
    among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Actual or potential changes in international, national,
    regional, and local economic, business, and financial
    conditions, including recession, inflation, interest rate
    increases, war, terrorist attacks, and political instability;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns,
    or demographic trends;



 


     
        • 

    
    Actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control
    system;



 


     
        • 

    
    Increases in costs of safety, security, and environmental
    measures; and



 


     
        • 

    
    Weather and natural disasters.





 


    Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the
    number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the
    number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an
    airline’s operating and financial results. Therefore, any
    general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of
    any of these factors could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.


 




    
    



    
      

    
    Southwest
    relies on technology to operate its business, and any failure of
    these systems could harm the Company.





 


    Southwest is increasingly dependent on automated systems and
    technology to operate its business, enhance Customer Service and
    back office support systems, and increase Employee productivity,
    including the Company’s computerized airline reservation
    system, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems,
    website at www.southwest.com, Automated Boarding Passes



    
    8



Table of Contents




    system, and the
    E-Ticket
    Check-In self service kiosks. Any disruptions in these systems
    due to internal failures of technology or large-scale external
    interruptions in technology infrastructure, such as power,
    telecommunications, or the internet, could result in the loss of
    revenue or important data, increase the Company’s expenses,
    and generally harm the Company’s business. In addition, our
    growth strategies may be dependent on our ability to effectively
    implement technology advancements.


 




    
    



    
      

    
    The
    travel industry continues to face on-going security concerns and
    cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or
    other hostilities, could significantly harm our industry and our
    business.





 


    The attacks of September 11, 2001, materially impacted, and
    continue to impact, air travel and the results of operations for
    Southwest and the airline industry generally. The Department of
    Homeland Security and the TSA have implemented numerous security
    measures that affect airline operations and costs. Substantially
    all security screeners at airports are now federal employees,
    and significant other elements of airline and airport security
    are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including
    federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and
    federal air marshals. Enhanced security procedures, including
    enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail,
    employees, and vendors, introduced at airports since the
    terrorist attacks of September 11 have increased costs to
    airlines and have from time to time impacted demand for air
    travel.


 


    Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the
    airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other
    hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or
    selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror
    threats) could have a further significant negative impact on
    Southwest and the airline industry. The war in Iraq further
    decreased demand for air travel during the first half of 2003,
    and additional international hostilities could potentially have
    a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of
    operations.


 




    
    



    
      

    
    Airport
    capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies
    could limit the Company’s growth; changes in or additional
    governmental regulation could increase the Company’s
    operating costs or otherwise limit the Company’s ability to
    conduct business.





 


    Almost all commercial service airports are owned
    and/or
    operated by units of local or state government. Airlines are
    largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide
    adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost.
    Similarly, the federal government singularly controls all
    U.S. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the
    FAA to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and
    affordable manner. As discussed above, under
    “Business — Regulation,” airlines are also
    subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. These
    requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. Our
    results of operations may be affected by changes in law and
    future actions taken by governmental agencies having
    jurisdiction over our operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increases in airport rates and charges;



 


     
        • 

    
    Limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport
    facilities;



 


     
        • 

    
    Increases in taxes;



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in the law that affect the services that can be offered
    by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports;



 


     
        • 

    
    Restrictions on competitive practices;



 


     
        • 

    
    The adoption of regulations that impact customer service
    standards, such as security standards; and



 


     
        • 

    
    The adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise
    restrictions.





 




    
    



    
      

    
    The
    airline industry is intensely competitive.





 


    As discussed in more detail above under
    “Business — Competition,” the airline
    industry is extremely competitive. Southwest’s competitors
    include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and
    new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation,
    including rail and private automobiles. The Company’s
    revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in the
    areas of capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and
    promotions.


 




    
    



    
      

    
    Southwest’s
    low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages,
    and many factors could affect the Company’s ability to
    control its costs.





 


    Factors affecting the Company’s ability to control its
    costs include the price and availability of fuel, results of
    Employee labor contract negotiations, Employee hiring and
    retention rates, costs for health care, capacity decisions by
    the Company and its competitors, unscheduled required aircraft
    airframe or engine repairs, regulatory requirements,
    availability of capital markets, and future financing decisions
    made by the Company.



    
    9



Table of Contents



 



    Item 1B