Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Southwest’s
    business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft
    fuel. Continued periods of high fuel costs and/or significant
    disruptions in the supply of fuel could adversely affect the
    Company’s results of operations.


 


    Airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate and,
    therefore, are impacted by changes in the prices of jet fuel.
    The cost of fuel, which has been at historically high levels
    over the last three years, is largely unpredictable and has a
    significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.
    Jet fuel and oil consumed for fiscal 2007 and 2006 represented
    approximately 28 percent and 26 percent of
    Southwest’s operating expenses, respectively. In both
    years, jet fuel costs were the second largest expense incurred
    by the Company, following only salaries, wages, and benefits.
    These costs contributed to the Company’s decision during
    2007 to slow growth and could continue to impact growth
    decisions.


 


    Fuel availability, as well as pricing, is also impacted by
    political and economic factors. The Company does not currently
    anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability;
    however, it is difficult to predict the future availability of
    jet fuel due to the following, among other, factors: dependency
    on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for
    hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; limited
    refining capacity; and the possibility of changes in
    governmental policies on jet fuel production, transportation,
    and marketing. Significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft
    fuel could adversely affect the Company’s business,
    financial condition, and results of operations.



    9



Table of Contents




    The Company’s profitability is impacted in part by its
    ability to pass fuel cost increases through to the consumer in
    the form of fare increases. Due to the competitive nature of the
    airline industry, the Company’s ability to increase fares
    is limited, and it is not certain that future fuel cost
    increases can be covered by increasing fares. Fare increases are
    even more difficult to achieve in uncertain economic
    environments, as low fares are often used to stimulate demand.


 


    From time to time the Company enters into fuel derivative
    contracts to protect against rising fuel costs. Changes in the
    Company’s overall fuel hedging strategy, the ability of the
    commodities used in fuel hedging (principally crude oil, heating
    oil, and unleaded gasoline) to qualify for special hedge
    accounting, and the effectiveness of the Company’s fuel
    hedges pursuant to highly complex accounting rules, are all
    significant factors impacting the Company’s results of
    operations. For more information on Southwest’s fuel
    hedging arrangements, see “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
    and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Southwest’s
    business is labor-intensive; Southwest could be adversely
    affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations
    with any unionized or other Employee work group.


 


    The airline business is labor intensive, and the Company’s
    results are subject to variations in labor-related job actions.
    Salaries, wages, and benefits represented 35.4 percent of
    the Company’s operating expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. In addition, as of December 31,
    2007, approximately 82 percent of the Company’s
    Employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by
    labor unions. The Company’s Ramp, Operations, Provisioning,
    and Freight Agents are subject to an agreement with the
    Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO (“TWU”),
    which becomes amendable on June 30, 2008. The Company and
    TWU are in discussions on a new agreement. The Company’s
    Pilots are subject to an agreement with the Southwest Airlines
    Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”), which became
    amendable during September 2006. The Company and SWAPA are in
    discussions on a new agreement. Although, historically, the
    Company’s relationships with its Employees have been good,
    the following items could have a significant impact on the
    Company’s results of operations: results of labor contract
    negotiations, employee hiring and retention rates, pay rates,
    outsourcing costs, the impact of work rules, and costs for
    health care.


 



    Southwest’s
    business is affected by many changing economic conditions and
    other conditions beyond its control.


 


    The Company’s business, and the airline industry in
    general, is particularly impacted by changes in economic
    conditions. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as
    higher unemployment rates, higher interest rates,
    housing-related pressures (such as recent issues in the subprime
    mortgage market), and increased operating costs can reduce
    consumer spending or cause shifts in spending. A general
    reduction or shift in discretionary spending can result in
    decreased demand for leisure and business travel and can also
    impact the Company’s ability to raise fares to counteract
    increased fuel and labor costs.


 


    The Company’s business, and the airline industry in
    general, is also impacted by other conditions that are largely
    outside of the Company’s control, including, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political
    instability;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns,
    or demographic trends;




 



     
        • 

    
    Actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control
    system;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increases in costs of safety, security, and environmental
    measures; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Weather and natural disasters.





 


    Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the
    number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the
    number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an
    airline’s operating and financial results. Therefore, any
    general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of
    any of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s
    business, financial condition, and results of operations.


 



    The
    Company relies on technology to operate its business and
    continues to implement substantial changes to its information
    systems; any failure or disruption in the Company’s systems
    could adversely impact the Company’s
    operations.


 


    The Company has historically been dependent on automated systems
    and technology to operate its business, enhance Customer Service
    and back office support systems, and increase Employee
    productivity, including the Company’s computerized airline
    reservation system, flight operations systems, telecommunication
    systems, website at www.southwest.com, Automated Boarding



    
    10



Table of Contents




    Passes system, and its self service kiosks. The Company has
    become increasingly dependent on its systems and technology to
    maintain and support the growth of its business. Therefore, the
    Company’s ability to expand and update its information
    technology infrastructure in response to its growth and changing
    needs is increasingly important to the operation of its business
    generally and the implementation of its new initiatives. Any
    issues with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or
    any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security
    failure of these systems, could harm the Company’s ability
    to effectively operate its business. In addition, the
    Company’s growth strategies are dependent on its ability to
    effectively implement technology advancements.


 



    The
    Company’s inability to successfully implement its revenue
    initiatives could adversely affect its results of
    operations.


 


    As discussed above, the Company has implemented and intends to
    continue to implement revenue initiatives that are designed to
    help offset increasing costs. The implementation of the
    Company’s initiatives has and will involve significant
    investments by the Company of time and money and could be
    impacted by (i) the Company’s ability to timely
    implement and maintain the necessary information technology
    systems and infrastructure (as discussed above), and
    (ii) the extent and timing of the Company’s investment
    of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures to
    develop and implement its initiatives and the Company’s
    corresponding ability to effectively control operating expenses.
    Because the Company has limited experience with some of its
    strategic initiatives, it cannot ensure that they will be
    successful or profitable either over the short or long term. The
    Company’s ability to effectively and timely prioritize and
    implement its initiatives will also affect when and if they will
    have a positive impact on the Company’s profitability.


 



    The
    travel industry continues to face on-going security concerns and
    cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or
    other hostilities, could significantly harm the Company’s
    industry and its business.


 


    The attacks of September 11, 2001, materially impacted, and
    continue to impact, air travel and the results of operations for
    Southwest and the airline industry generally. The Department of
    Homeland Security and the TSA have implemented numerous security
    measures that affect airline operations and costs. Substantially
    all security screeners at airports are now federal employees,
    and significant other elements of airline and airport security
    are now overseen and performed by federal employees, including
    federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and
    federal air marshals. Enhanced security procedures, including
    enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail,
    employees, and vendors, introduced at airports since the
    terrorist attacks of September 11 have increased costs to
    airlines and have from time to time impacted demand for air
    travel.


 


    Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the
    airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other
    hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or
    selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror
    threats) could have a further significant negative impact on
    Southwest and the airline industry. Additional international
    hostilities could potentially have a material adverse impact on
    the Company’s results of operations.


 



    Airport
    capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies
    could limit the Company’s growth; changes in or additional
    governmental regulation could increase the Company’s
    operating costs or otherwise limit the Company’s ability to
    conduct business.


 


    Almost all commercial service airports are owned
    and/or
    operated by units of local or state government. Airlines are
    largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide
    adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost.
    Similarly, the federal government singularly controls all
    U.S. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the
    FAA to operate that airspace in a safe, efficient, and
    affordable manner. As discussed above under
    “Business — Regulation,” airlines are also
    subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. These
    requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. The
    Company’s results of operations may be affected by changes
    in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies having
    jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increases in airport rates and charges;




 



     
        • 

    
    Limitations on airport gate capacity or other use of airport
    facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Increases in taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the law that affect the services that can be offered
    by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports;




 



     
        • 

    
    Restrictions on competitive practices;






    
    11



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The adoption of regulations that impact customer service
    standards, such as security standards; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise
    regulations.





 



    The
    airline industry is intensely competitive.


 


    As discussed in more detail above under
    “Business — Competition,” the airline
    industry is extremely competitive. Southwest’s competitors
    include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and
    new entrant airlines, and other forms of transportation,
    including rail and private automobiles. Southwest’s
    revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in the
    areas of capacity, pricing, scheduling, codesharing, and
    promotions.


 



    Southwest’s
    low cost structure is one of its primary competitive advantages,
    and many factors could affect the Company’s ability to
    control its costs.


 


    Factors affecting the Company’s ability to control its
    costs include the price and availability of fuel, results of
    Employee labor contract negotiations, Employee hiring and
    retention rates, costs for health care, capacity decisions by
    the Company and its competitors, unscheduled required aircraft
    airframe or engine repairs, regulatory requirements, ability to
    access capital or financing at competitive rates in financial
    markets, and future financing decisions made by the Company. In
    addition, a key contributor to the Company’s low cost
    structure is its use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737.
    Although the Company is able to purchase some of these aircraft
    from parties other than Boeing, most of its purchases are direct
    from Boeing. Therefore, if the Company were unable to acquire
    additional aircraft from Boeing, or Boeing were unable or
    unwilling to provide adequate support for its products, the
    Company’s operations could be adversely impacted. In
    addition, the Company’s dependence on a single aircraft
    type could result in downtime for part or all of the
    Company’s fleet if mechanical or regulatory issues relating
    to the Boeing 737 aircraft type arise. However, given the
    Company’s years of experience with the Boeing 737 aircraft
    type and its longterm relationship with Boeing, the Company
    believes the advantages of operating a single fleet type
    outweigh the risks of its single aircraft strategy.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B