Item 1A
  
  
  Risk Factors
  
  
   
  
  
  38
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  1B
  
  
  Unresolved
  Staff Comments
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 2
  
  
  Properties
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 3
  
  
  Legal
  Proceedings
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  4
  
  
  Submission
  of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Part II
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  5
  
  
  Market
  for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 6
  
  
  Selected
  Financial Data
  
  
   
  
  
  58
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  7
  
  
  Management’s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation
  
  
   
  
  
  61
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  7A
  
  
  Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
  
   
  
  
  90
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  8
  
  
  Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data
  
  
   
  
  
  91
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  9
  
  
  Changes
  in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
  
   
  
  
  91
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  9A
  
  
  Controls
  and Procedures
  
  
   
  
  
  91
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 9B
  
  
  Other
  Information
  
  
   
  
  
  92
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Part III
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  10
  
  
  Directors,
  Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
  
   
  
  
  92
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  11
  
  
  Executive
  Compensation
  
  
   
  
  
  92
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  12
  
  
  Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters
  
  
   
  
  
  92
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  13
  
  
  Certain
  Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
  
   
  
  
  92
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  14
  
  
  Principal
  Accounting Fees and Services
  
  
   
  
  
  93
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Part IV
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  15.
  
  
  Exhibits,
  Financial Statement Schedules
  
  
   
  
  
  93
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Index
  to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
  
   
  
  
  F-1
  
  
   
  
 




 


 i










Unless the context otherwise requires, when we use the
words “Level 3,” “we,” “us” or “our company” in this Form 10-K, we
are referring to Level 3 Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and
its subsidiaries, unless it is clear from the context or expressly stated that
these references are only to Level 3 Communications, Inc. References to
our subsidiaries exclude Broadwing Corporation, a Delaware corporation and its
subsidiaries, which we acquired on January 3, 2007. In this Form 10-K,
we may refer to Broadwing Corporation and its subsidiaries as “Broadwing.” In
addition, we may refer to our former subsidiary Software Spectrum, Inc.
and its subsidiaries as “Software Spectrum.”

The Level 3 logo and Level 3 are registered service
marks of Level 3 Communications, Inc. in the United States and other
countries. All rights are reserved. This Form 10-K refers to trade
names and trademarks of other companies. The mention of these trade names and
trademarks in this Form 10-K is made with due recognition of the
rights of these companies and without any intent to misappropriate those names
or marks. All other trade names and trademarks appearing in this Form 10-K
are the property of their respective owners.

Cautionary
Factors That May Affect Future Results
(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995)

This Form 10-K
contains forward-looking statements and information that are based on the
beliefs of our management as well as assumptions made by and information
currently available to us. When we use the words “anticipate”, “believe”, “plan”,
“estimate” and “expect” and similar expressions in this Form 10-K,
as they relate to us or our management, we are intending to identify forward-looking
statements. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future
events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.

Should
one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying
assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those
described in this document. These forward-looking statements include,
among others, statements concerning:

·       our
communications business, its advantages and our strategy for continuing to
pursue our business;

·       anticipated
development and launch of new services in our business;

·       anticipated
dates on which we will begin providing certain services or reach specific
milestones in the development and implementation of our business strategy;

·       growth
and recovery of the communications industry;

·       expectations
as to our future revenue, margins, expenses and capital requirements; and

·       other
statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated
developments and other matters that are not historical facts.

These
forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties,
including financial, regulatory, environmental, industry growth and trend
projections, that could cause actual events or results to differ materially
from those expressed or implied by the statements. The most important factors
that could prevent us from achieving our stated goals include, but are not
limited to, our failure to:

·       integrate
strategic acquisitions;

·       increase
the volume of traffic on our network;

·       defend
our intellectual property and proprietary rights;

·       develop
new services that meet customer demands and generate acceptable margins;

·       successfully
complete commercial testing of new technology and information systems to
support new services;

·  attract and retain qualified management and
other personnel; and


 1 






·       meet
all of the terms and conditions of our debt obligations.

Except as required by
applicable law and regulations, we undertake no obligation to publicly update
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise. Further disclosures that we make on related
subjects in our additional filings with the SEC or Securities and Exchange
Commission should be consulted. For further information regarding the risks and
uncertainties that may affect our future results, please review the information
set forth below under “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.”

Part I

ITEM
1.                BUSINESS

Unless the context otherwise requires, when we use the
words “Level 3,” “we,” “us” or “our company” in this Form 10-K, we
are referring to Level 3 Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and
its subsidiaries, unless it is clear from the context or expressly stated that
these references are only to Level 3 Communications, Inc. Unless we state
specifically to the contrary, references to our subsidiaries excludes Broadwing
Corporation, a Delaware corporation and its subsidiaries, which we acquired on January 3,
2007. In this Form 10-K, we may refer to Broadwing Corporation and its
subsidiaries as “Broadwing.” Throughout this Form 10-K we use various
industry terms and abbreviations, which we have defined in the Glossary of
Terms at the end of this description of our business.

Through our operating
subsidiaries, we engage primarily in the communications business.

We are a facilities based
provider (that is, a provider that owns or leases a substantial portion of the
plant, property and equipment necessary to provide its services) of a broad
range of integrated communications services. We have created our communications
network generally by constructing our own assets, but also through a
combination of purchasing and leasing other companies and facilities. Our
network is an advanced, international, facilities based communications network.
We designed our network to provide communications services, which employ and
take advantage of rapidly improving underlying optical, Internet Protocol, computing
and storage technologies.

Market and Technology
Opportunity.   We
believe that ongoing technology advances in both optical and Internet Protocol
technologies have been revolutionizing the communications industry. We also
believe that these advances have, and will continue to, facilitate decreases in
unit costs for communications service providers that are able to most
effectively take advantage of these technology advances. Service providers that
can effectively take advantage of technology improvements and reduce unit costs
will be able to offer lower prices, which, we believe, will stimulate
substantial increases in the demand for communications services. We believe
there are two primary factors that are continuing to drive this market dynamic:

·       Rapidly Improving Technologies.   Over the past
few years, both Internet Protocol or IP and optical based networking
technologies have undergone extremely rapid innovation, due, in large part, to
market based development of underlying technologies. This rapid technology
innovation has resulted in both an improvement in price-performance for
optical and Internet Protocol systems, as well as rapid improvement in the
functionality and applications supported by these technologies. For example,
these improvements are enabling voice over IP services or VoIP that are
challenging traditional telephone network or PSTN services. We believe that
this rapid innovation will continue well into the future across a number of
different aspects of the communications marketplace.

·       High Demand Elasticity.   We believe decreases in
communications services costs and prices cause the development of new bandwidth-intensive
applications, which, over time, result in even more significant increases in
bandwidth demand. In addition, we believe that communications services are
direct substitutes for other, existing modes of information distribution from
sources such as 


 2 






traditional
broadcast entertainment and distribution of software, audio and video content
using physical media delivered over motor transportation systems.

We believe that as communications services improve
more rapidly than these alternative content distribution systems, significant
demand will be generated from these sources of information. We also believe
that high elasticity of demand from both these new applications and the
substitution for existing distribution systems will continue for the
foreseeable future. We believe that while high demand elasticity will be
manifested over time, government regulation and communications supply chain
inefficiencies may cause realization of demand to be delayed.

We also believe that there
are significant implications that result from this market dynamic:

·       Incorporating Technology Changes.   Given the rapid rate
of improvement in optical and Internet Protocol technologies, communications
service providers that are most effective at rapidly deploying new services
that take advantage of these technologies will have an inherent cost and service
advantage over companies that are less effective at deploying new services that
use these technologies.

·       Capital Intensity.   The rapid improvements in these
technologies and the need to move to new technologies more quickly results in
shortened economic lives of underlying assets. To achieve improvements in
service capabilities and unit cost reductions, service providers must deploy
new generations of technology sooner, resulting in a more capital-intensive
business model. Those providers with the technical, operational and financial
ability to take advantage of the rapid advancements in these technologies are
expected to have higher absolute capital requirements, shortened asset lives,
rapidly decreasing unit costs and prices, rapidly increasing unit demand and
higher cash flows and profits.

Our Communications Business Strategy

We are seeking to capitalize on the opportunities
presented by the expanded coverage of our communications network in the United
States and in Europe as well as the significant and rapid advancements in
optical and Internet Protocol technologies. Key elements of our strategy
include:

·       Offer a Comprehensive Range of Communications Services Over Our
End-to-End Network.   We provide a comprehensive range of
communications services designed to meet the needs of our customers over our
network. During 2006, we expanded our targeted customer base to include
enterprise or business customers through our recently completed acquisitions.

Our communications service offerings include: Softswitch
and voice services including wholesale VoIP component services and consumer
oriented VoIP services, enterprise or business voice services, managed modem
for the dial-up access business, wholesale voice termination services; Internet
Protocol and data services including Internet access and IP and Ethernet
Virtual Private Networks and broadband transport services such as wavelengths,
dark fiber and private line services including transoceanic, backhaul,
intercity, metro and unprotected private line services; content distribution
services including video broadcast services; and colocation services. The
availability of these services varies by location.

For several years we have been developing services
that take advantage of the investment that we have made in our network and that
generally target large, existing markets for communications services. We have
also expanded our existing markets for communications services through our
recent acquisitions that enabled us to offer services directly to enterprise or
business customers. Through these efforts we have increased significantly our
addressable market by adding new targeted customers as well as new voice and
data services that take advantage of the geographic coverage and cost
advantages of our network.


 3 






With respect to our wholesale customers, we provide
these customers with several options for accessing our intercity network—including
our metropolitan networks and colocation facilities. Our metropolitan networks
enable us to connect directly to points of high traffic aggregation. These
traffic aggregation facilities are typically locations where our customers wish
to interconnect with our intercity network. Our metropolitan networks allow us
to extend our network services to these aggregation points at low costs. With
respect to our enterprise customers, we provide these customers with access to
our network either by directly connecting to their location or by serving that
location with a connection from another communications services provider. As of
December 31, 2006, and after giving effect to the acquisition of
Broadwing, we have:

·       approximately
73,000 intercity route miles in the United States and Europe;

·       connecting
16 countries;

·       with
approximately 125 markets having metropolitan fiber networks containing
approximately 25,000 route miles in the United States and Europe; and

·       connecting
approximately 6,500 traffic aggregation points and buildings in the aggregate.

We believe that providing colocation services in
facilities directly connected to our network attracts communications intensive
customers by allowing us to offer those customers reduced bandwidth costs,
rapid provisioning of additional bandwidth, interconnection with other third
party networks and improved network performance. Therefore, we believe that
having colocation facilities in our larger network access locations that we
refer to as Gateways, provides us with a competitive advantage. Additionally,
our metropolitan networks allow us to compete for certain local communications
traffic, which constitutes a significant percentage of the communications
market. As of December 31, 2006, after giving effect to the acquisition of
Broadwing, we had secured approximately 6.9 million square feet of space
for our Gateway and transmission facilities and other technical space and had
completed the build-out of approximately 4.6 million square feet of this
space.

·       Target Top Global Bandwidth Customers.   With respect to
our wholesale services offerings, our primary distribution strategy is to use a
national, direct sales force focused on high bandwidth usage businesses. These
businesses include incumbent local exchange carriers, international carriers
also known as PTTs, major ISPs, broadband cable television operators, wireless
providers, major interexchange carriers, the U.S. government and enhanced
service providers. Providing communications services to these businesses is at
the core of our market enabling strategy since bandwidth generally represents a
substantial portion of these businesses’ costs. We identify as wholesale
customers those customers that purchase significant amounts of capacity to
serve the needs of their customers.

·       Further Develop Existing Enterprise Customer Business.   With
respect to our business markets customers, our primary distribution strategy is
to use a locally based direct sales force to target business customers, state
governments, higher education institutions and academic consortia with high
demands for mission critical communications services. In this category we also
target regional carriers that make communications services buying decisions
locally.

·       Develop Market Leading Content Distribution Service Offerings.   At
December 31, 2006, we operated one of the largest Internet Protocol
backbones in the world. In other words, we operate one of the largest networks
over which Internet content is transported from content sources to third party
owned access networks connected directly to end users. As a result of this
network scale, we embarked on a strategy to refine our capabilities to address
the communications needs of those organizations that produce the content that
individuals want to view over the Internet. This service offering includes high
speed IP services, colocation services and services that cost effectively 


 4 






distribute the
content that is produced for consumption over the Internet. This strategy led
us to purchase the content distribution network or CDN assets of SAVVIS, Inc.
in January 2007. We believe that one of the largest sources of future incremental
demand for communications services will be derived from customers that are
seeking to distribute their feature rich content or video over the Internet.
Furthermore, we believe that we are the only services provider with a single
source, full portfolio of end-to-end content distribution solutions, and that
we are in a unique position to offer a range of building blocks to meet these
customers’ needs.

·       Expand Metropolitan Network Coverage.   We expect to
selectively extend the current reach of our existing metropolitan networks by
opportunistically adding additional connections to buildings and other traffic
aggregation points from these networks to enable us to reach additional
potential customers and reduce our costs for the termination of our customer’s
communications traffic on other carriers’ networks.

·       Pursue Acquisition Opportunities.   For a number of
years,  we have engaged in significant
acquisition activities. In evaluating potential acquisition opportunities,
among other criteria, we evaluate the potential acquisition according to the
transaction’s ability to generate positive cash flow from high credit quality
customers. For these opportunities, we generally look for companies with
recurring revenue that comes predominantly from services we already provide, in
geographic areas that are already served, with customers that are consistent
with our existing customer base. It is this group of acquisitions that generally
also provide significant synergy opportunities as a result of overlapping
network and service offerings.

As we seek to expand the addressable market for our
services, we also evaluate opportunities that would expand our service
capabilities. Transactions that would be included in this category would expand
the geographic scope of our network or would provide capabilities for
additional services or distribution channels. For these opportunities, we
generally consider whether the targeted company’s distribution strategy is
consistent with our strategy and whether management believes that the target’s
current and/or future revenues can be significantly increased and/or expenses
can be significantly reduced as a result of a combination with our operations. Generally
these acquisition opportunities will not provide the same level of synergy
opportunity that the category of acquisitions describe above provide to us.

·       Develop Advanced Operational Processes and Business Support Systems.   We
have developed and continue to develop substantial and scalable operational
processes and business support systems specifically designed to enable us to
offer services efficiently to our targeted customers. We believe that these
systems offer our customers industry leading performance standards, reduce our
operating costs, give our customers direct control over some of the services
they buy from us and allow us to grow rapidly while minimizing redesign of our
business support systems.

·       Provide Low Cost Backbone Services Through An Upgradeable Backbone
Network.   Many portions of our originally constructed intercity
and metropolitan networks were designed to provide high quality communications
services at a lower cost. As we continue to integrate our recently acquired
operations, our network and business processes will seek to enable us to cost
effectively deploy future generations of optical and IP networking components
(both fiber and transmission electronics and optronics) and thereby expand
capacity and reduce unit costs. In addition, our strategy is to maximize the
use of open, non-proprietary interfaces in the design of our network software
and hardware. This approach is intended to provide the company with the ability
to purchase the most cost effective network equipment from multiple vendors and
allow us to deploy new technology more rapidly and effectively.


 5 






·       Attract and
Motivate High Quality Employees.   We have developed programs
designed to attract and retain employees with the technical and business skills
necessary for our business. The programs include our long term incentive
programs.

Our Strengths

We believe that the following strengths will assist us
in implementing our strategy:

·       Experienced Management Team.   We have assembled a
management team that we believe is well suited for our business objectives and
strategy. Our senior management has substantial experience in leading the
development, marketing and sale of communications services and in managing,
designing and constructing metropolitan, intercity and international networks.

·       A Comprehensive Range of Communications Services.   We
provide a comprehensive range of communications services designed to meet the
needs of our customers over our network. During 2006, we expanded our targeted
customer base to include enterprise or business customers through our recently
completed acquisitions.

Our communications service offerings include:
Softswitch and voice services including wholesale VoIP component services and
consumer oriented VoIP services, enterprise or business voice services,
wholesale voice termination services, managed modem for the dial-up access
business; Internet Protocol and data services including Internet access and IP
and Ethernet Virtual Private Networks and broadband transport services such as
wavelengths, dark fiber and private line services including transoceanic, backhaul,
intercity, metro and unprotected private line services; content distribution
services including video broadcast services; and colocation services. The
availability of these services varies by location.

For several years we have been developing services
that take advantage of the investment that we have made in our network and that
generally target large, existing markets for communications services. We have
also expanded our existing markets for communications services through our
recent acquisitions that enabled us to offer services directly to enterprise or
business customers. Through these efforts we have increased significantly our
addressable market by adding new targeted customers as well as new voice and
data services that take advantage of the geographic coverage and cost
advantages of our network.

·       Significant metropolitan network platform.   As of December 31,
2006, and after giving effect to the acquisition of Broadwing, we have
metropolitan fiber networks in approximately 125 markets in the United States
and Europe, which contain approximately 25,000 route miles and connect in the
aggregate approximately 6,500 traffic aggregation points and buildings. Our
metropolitan networks enable us to connect directly to points of high traffic
aggregation and customer locations and reduce our costs for the termination of
our customer’s communications traffic on other carriers’ networks.

·       End-to-End Network Platform.   Our strategy has been and
continues to be to deploy network infrastructure in major metropolitan areas
and to link these networks with significant intercity and trans-oceanic
networks in North America and Europe. We believe that the integration of our
metropolitan and intercity networks with our colocation facilities will expand
the scope and reach of our on-net customer coverage, facilitate the uniform
deployment of technological innovations as we manage our future upgrade paths
and allow us to grow or scale our service offerings rapidly. We believe that we
are the only international communications service provider with the unique
combination of 1) large fiber count metropolitan networks, 2) generally
uniformly deployed multi-conduit intercity networks, 3) substantial
colocation facilities and 4) significant content distribution technology and
services.


 6 






·       Advanced IP Backbone.   We operate one of the largest
international IP networks or backbones. Our IP services deliver a broad range
of IP transit and network interconnection solutions tailored to meet the varied
needs of high bandwidth companies.

·       Extensive Patent Portfolio.   Through both organic
growth and acquisitions, we have developed an extensive patent portfolio,
consisting of approximately 800 patents and patent applications filed in the
United States and around the world. Our patent portfolio includes patents filed
in each of the last three decades covering technologies ranging from data and
voice services to content distribution to transmission and other networking
equipment. Many of our patents that cover our core technologies and service
offerings are not scheduled to expire for more than ten years. While our
portfolio has only been used to date from a defensive perspective to resolve
claims of infringement asserted against Level 3, we are exploring appropriate
ways to enforce our rights against others. We will continue to file new patent
applications as we enhance and develop products and services, and we will
continue to seek opportunities to expand our patent portfolio through strategic
acquisitions.

·       Softswitch based Co-Carrier Network.   Our experience in
operating our Softswitch based co-carrier network is combined with a set of
infrastructure and other management experiences, which include extensive local
interconnection with local exchange carriers, experience in scaling a
Softswitch based platform, and an ability to provide seamless interconnection
to the traditional telephone network or PSTN. We believe that our extensive
co-carrier network and Softswitch infrastructure provides us with a competitive
advantage in the emerging voice over IP or VoIP marketplace.

·       A More
Readily Upgradeable Network Infrastructure.   With respect to a
substantial portion of our network, the network was designed to take advantage
of technological innovations, incorporating many of the features that are not
present in older communication networks, and provide us flexibility to take
advantage of future developments and innovations. We designed the transmission
network to optimize all aspects of fiber and optronics simultaneously as a
system to deliver the lowest unit cost to our customers. As fiber and optical
transmission technology changes, we expect to realize new unit cost
improvements by deploying the most cost efficient technologies in our network.
We believe that our network design will enable us to lower costs and prices
while enjoying higher margins than our competitors.

Our Communications Services

Customer Focused Organization

In August 2006, we realigned the customer
interacting or customer facing aspects of our communications business into four
groups to focus more effectively on the needs of our customers. These four
groups are:

·       Wholesale
Markets Group

·       Business
Markets Group

·       Content
Markets Group; and

·       Europe

This realignment was
implemented to enable those employees in these customer facing roles to develop
and deliver high quality communications services that are based on the needs of
the customers that the group is seeking to serve. Each of these groups is
supported by dedicated employees in sales, marketing, service or product management
and operations. Each of the groups is also supported by centralized global
network services, metropolitan network services, engineering, information
technology, and corporate functions including legal, finance, strategy and
human resources. It is through the Wholesale 


 7 






Markets,
Business Markets, Content Markets and Europe groups that we offer a comprehensive range of communications
services.

Wholesale Markets Group.   The
Wholesale Markets Group is focused on delivering communications services to
meet the high bandwidth needs of many of the largest global communications
services providers on a wholesale basis. The Wholesale Markets Group’s
customers will integrate or package our services into their own products and
services to offer voice, video and data services to their end-user customers.

The
market segments that the Wholesale Markets Group addresses include:

·       domestic
and international carriers;

·       voice service providers, which include calling
card companies, conferencing providers, and contact centers that use VoIP
technology to better manage costs and enable advanced applications;

·       wireless
providers;

·       cable
television companies;

·       system
integrators; and

·       the
U.S. government.

Business Markets Group.   The
Business Markets Group is focused on delivering communications services to meet
the telecommunications needs of small, medium and large enterprises as well as
local and regional carriers, higher education institutions and academic
consortia as well as state and local governments. Local and regional carriers include
ISPs, enhanced service providers, application service providers, wireless
providers, mobile virtual network operators, VoIP providers as well as
datacenters and hosting facilities. The Business Markets Group focuses on
providing its targeted customers with the full suite of data, Internet,
transport and voice services.

Content Markets Group.   As we believe that one of the
largest sources of future incremental demand for communications services will
be derived from customers that are seeking to distribute their feature rich
content or video over the Internet, the Content Markets Group focuses on
offering a range of end-to-end communications services building blocks to meet
the content distribution needs of its customers. Customers that the Content
Markets Group serves include:

·       video
distribution companies;

·       providers
of online gaming and mega-portals;

·       software
service providers;

·       social
networking providers;

·       traditional
media distribution companies including broadcasters, television networks and sports
leagues.

Europe.   The
Europe group focuses on the communications needs of European customers and the
European aspects of customers located outside of Europe. The Europe group
target customers are similar to the target customers of the Wholesale Markets
Group and the Content Markets Group.

Service Offerings

We offer a
comprehensive range of communications services, which currently include the
following services. All of these services are available to customers of each of
the customer facing groups, however their availability varies by location.

·       Switched Services.   We pioneered and developed the
Softswitch—a distributed computer system that emulates the functions performed
by traditional circuit switches—which enables us to control 


 8 






and process voice
and data calls over an Internet Protocol network. We also offer several
traditional circuit switch-based voice services. Our Switched Services
include the following.

·        Level 3 Voice Termination.   Level 3 Voice Termination
consists of long distance origination, transport and termination services,
offered over a combination of a circuit switch and Softswitch technologies.
These services are offered primarily to inter-exchange carriers (IXCs),
local phone companies, cable companies and voice over IP providers.

·        Level 3 Toll Free.   Level 3 Toll Free consists of
services that terminate toll free calls that are originated or placed on the
traditional telephone network. These toll free calls are carried over either a
circuit switch or Softswitch network and delivered to customers in Internet
Protocol or traditional TDM format. Customers for these services include call
centers, conferencing providers, and voice over IP providers.

·        Level 3 International Voice Termination.   Level 3
International Voice Termination service offers the termination of international
voice traffic. Customers for these services include local phone companies,
wireless companies, cable companies and voice over IP providers.

·        Level 3 VoIP Enhanced Local.   Level 3 VoIP Enhanced
Local is a VoIP solution that enables broadband cable operators, IXCs, voice
over IP providers, and other companies operating their own switching
infrastructure to launch IP-based local and long-distance voice to residential
and business customers via any broadband connection. With the purchase of Level
3 VoIP Enhanced Local service, a customer obtains the essential building blocks
required to offer residential or business voice over IP phone service such as
local phone numbers, local number portability, local and long distance calling,
E-911, operator assistance, directory listings, and directory assistance.

·        Level 3 Local Inbound.   Level 3 Local Inbound service
terminates traditional telephone network originated calls to Internet Protocol
termination points. Customers, such as call centers, conferencing providers,
and voice over IP service providers, can obtain telephone numbers from us or
port-in local telephone numbers that the customer already controls. These local
calls are then converted to IP and transported over our backbone to a customer’s
IP voice application at a customer-selected IP voice end point.

·        Level 3 E-911 Direct.   Level 3 E-911 Direct
is a portfolio of E-911, or Enhanced 911, solutions, including a fixed-location
solution with network connections to public safety answering points or PSAPs
that serve approximately 70 percent of all U.S. households, and a solution
for nomadic voice over IP providers that takes advantage of the same network
connections as the fixed-location solution. Enhanced 911 service allows
an emergency services operator to automatically receive information related to
a 911 caller’s registered address and callback phone number. A nomadic voice
over IP provider is a company that permits its end user customer to use VoIP
services from more than one location. Level 3 E-911 Direct provides the
network capabilities that route and complete 911 calls to appropriate selective
routers and PSAPs on the traditional telephone 911 network. PSAPs are provided
with calling information that allows them to query appropriate databases to
determine the subscriber’s registered address and call-back number. When used with
the services provided by a third party VoIP Positioning Center, or VPC, to
collect, update and report subscriber location information, our Level 3 E-911
Direct service enables VoIP service providers to supply 911 services to their
subscribers. Level 3 E-911 Direct works in conjunction with Level 3 VoIP
Enhanced Local and Level 3 Local Inbound services as well as on a stand alone
basis.

·        Level 3 One Plus.   Level 3 One Plus service
provides non-facilities-based resellers and regional carriers with a geographically
limited ability to originate calls from the PSTN, and a complete end-to-end
solution for their interstate, intrastate and international traffic. This
service suite 


 9 






features Automatic
Number Identification (ANI)-based and Carrier Identification Code (CIC)-based
services as well as a dedicated end-user service.

·        Level 3
Business Lines.   The Level 3 Business Lines service
provides a feature rich telephone functionality. The service offering includes
a PSTN line that connects to the customer’s business location from our central
office facility; the telephone number, which includes associated directory
listing; standard services, which include operator services, directory
assistance, and 911 services; and long-distance access, which provides equal
access to all long-distance carriers, including Level 3.

·        Level 3 Switched Long Distance.   The Level 3 Switched
Long Distance service offers customers reliable service at competitive prices
with features that meet their business needs. These features include intrastate
and interstate voice service at simple, cost-effective flat rates on interstate
and intrastate calls with no monthly recurring or minimum-usage charges with
access to over 290 international locations.

·        Level 3 Managed Modem.   Level 3 Managed Modem is an
outsourced, turn-key infrastructure solution for the management of dial up access
to the public Internet. ISPs comprise a majority of the customer base for Level
3 Managed Modem and are provided a fully managed dial up network
infrastructure. As part of this service, Level 3 arranges for the provision of
local network coverage, dedicated local telephone numbers, racks and modems as
well as dedicated connectivity from the customer’s location to the Level 3
Gateway facility.

·       Network and Internet Services.   We offer both wholesale-oriented
communications services to enable large scale networks and high speed access to
the Internet as well as similar services designed for the enterprise
marketplace. We offer a portfolio of data communications services ranging from
basic network infrastructure components such as dark fiber, wavelength, and
private line services to higher level routed data services such as Ethernet,
Internet Transit and IP VPN. Our Network and Internet Services include the
following.

·        Transport Services.   Transport services include
wavelengths (Level 3 Intercity Wavelength Services and Level 3 Metro Wavelength
Services) and private lines (Level 3 Intercity Private Line Services and Level
3 Metro Services). These services are available across our metropolitan and
intercity fiber network. Wavelength services provide unprotected point-to-point
connections of a fixed amount of bandwidth using a particular color of light on
the fiber network. Wavelength services are available at 2.5 Gbps and 10 Gbps
speeds, which represent the largest capacity of dedicated transport services.
This service offering targets customers that require significant amounts of
bandwidth, desire more direct control and provide their own network management.
Private line services are also point to point connections of dedicated
bandwidth but usually include SONET or SDH protection to provide resiliency to
fiber or equipment outages. We also offer private line services on an
“unprotected” basis, meaning the customer is responsible for providing
additional resiliency, if needed. Private line services are available in a
range of speeds: DS-1 (1.5 Mbps), DS-3, OC-3, OC-12 and OC-48, as well as SDH
equivalents. Customers generally use our transport services to create their own
SONET/SDH, ATM and IP networks. We typically offer transport services in annual
contracts with monthly payments or long-term pre-paid agreements.

Level 3 also provides
transport services within our transatlantic cable system connecting North
America and Europe as well as via leased bulk capacity on other transoceanic
systems. “International Backhaul” transport services, interconnecting cable
landing stations and the terrestrial North American and European networks, are
also available.


 10










·        High Speed Internet Protocol (IP) Service.   Level 3
operates one of the largest international Internet backbones providing
connectivity among customer IP, content and application networks. Built on our
own intercity and metropolitan networks in North America and Europe, we provide
customers with high performance, reliability and scalability. Access to the
Internet is enabled through interconnection among our customers across our
network as well as interconnections with other Internet Service provider “peers.”
Level 3 High Speed IP offers a wide range of Ethernet and SONET access port
speeds such as 100BaseT, GigE, DS-1, DS-3, OC-3 and OC-12, OC-48 and 10 GigE.

·        Level 3 Dedicated Internet Access.   Level 3 Dedicated
Internet Access service provides a high-speed Internet over a Tier One
Internet backbone service through a wide variety of access methods and speeds
ranging from 56 Kbps to OC-48 and Gigabit Ethernet. The service also includes
Domain Name services, primary, secondary and caching and is available as either
a stand-alone service or as a compliment to our other communications services.

·        Ethernet and VPN Services.   Built on our optical
transport and MPLS networks, we offer customers the ability to create private
point-to-point, point-to-multipoint, and full-mesh networks based on Ethernet
and IP VPN, ATM and Frame Relay technologies. These services allow service
providers, corporations, government entities, and distribution businesses to
replace multiple networks with a single, cost-effective solution that
simplifies the transmission of voice, video, and data over a single or
converged network. The service allows the customer to achieve this convergence
without sacrificing the quality of service or security levels of traditional
dedicated transport offerings. These solutions are used for service provider
and corporate data and voice networks, data center networking, disaster
recovery and out-of-region or redundant customer connectivity for other service
providers. These services include Level 3 Ethernet VPN, Level 3 IP VPN, Level 3
Metro Ethernet Private Line, Level 3 ATM, and Level 3 Frame Relay.

·        Colocation Service.   We offer high quality, data center
space where customers can locate servers, content storage devices and
communications network equipment in a safe and secure technical operating
environment. At our colocation sites, we offer high-speed, reliable connectivity
to our network and to other networks, including metro and intercity networks,
the traditional telephone network and the Internet. Critical components of this
service offering are reliable AC/DC power, emergency back-up generator power,
equipment cooling and fire protection. These sites are monitored and maintained
24 hours a day and incorporate advanced security access. We believe that
our ability to complement a full range of communications services with quality
data center space enables customers to build complete telecommunications and
application solutions with us.

·        Dark Fiber Service.   Level 3 Intercity Dark Fiber and
Level 3 Metro Dark Fiber provide carriers, service providers, government
entities and large enterprises a complete infrastructure when a fiber solution
is required based on unique applications, control or scale requirements. The
services include fiber, colocation space in our Gateway and in our network
facilities, power and physical operations and maintenance of the fiber and
associated infrastructure.

·        Professional Services.   With Level 3 Professional
Services, we offer field technical support services 24 hours a day to
companies wishing to outsource their telecommunications equipment support at
locations across North America and Europe. Customers can realize improved response
time and cost savings using Level 3’s personnel instead of hiring their own
dedicated technicians. We also provide design, implementation and ongoing
network management services for complex network projects.


 11 






·       Content Distribution.   Our Content Distribution primary
products and services include the following.

·        Content Delivery Network.   Our
content delivery network service is a unique configuration of our hosting and
network assets located in approximately 25 countries, which is designed to
improve the performance, reliability, and reach of web applications. Our
caching services provide swift delivery of media content such as graphics,
video, and voice, and provide efficient downloads of software releases and
security patches. Our streaming services can be used to deliver single events
or libraries of video, music or animated content. Our Intelligent Traffic
Management software can be used to route traffic to individual servers based on
business rules or continuously monitor systems and to reroute traffic
should performance bottlenecks emerge.

·        Fiber Optic and Satellite Video Transport Services.   We
offer various products to provide audio and video feeds over fiber or satellite
for broadcast and production customers. These products vary in capacity provided,
frequency of use (that is, may be provided on an occasional or dedicated basis)
and price. In 2004, Super Bowl® XXXVIII was the first live broadcast event ever
carried using our new high definition (HD) transport product.

·        Advertising Distribution Services.   These services
include the following. Audio Distribution, where we send radio spots to
stations via electronic and physical distribution. Spots are distributed to
over 10,500 stations in North America via the Internet using no proprietary
hardware. Video Distribution, where we have the capability to deliver video
content electronically and physically to television stations, broadcast
networks and cable networks across the United States.

·        Storage.   We offer secure storage of media components
in our climate-controlled storage facilities located in Burbank,
California, Chicago, Illinois and Newark, Delaware.

Prior to our acquisition of Broadwing in January 2007,
Broadwing offered many services that were similar to our services. In addition,
Broadwing offered some services that were not similar to our services. As part
of our integration activities, which we have recently begun, we will evaluate
Broadwing’s service offering to determine which services we will continue to
offer and which services we will discontinue.

For a
discussion of certain geographic information regarding our revenue from
external customers and long-lived assets, please see the notes to our
Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For a
discussion of our communications revenue, please also see Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
appearing later in this Form 10-K. Our management continues to
review our existing lines of business and service offerings to determine how
those lines of business and service offerings assist with our focus on the
delivery of communications services and meeting our financial objectives. This
exercise takes place both with respect to integration activities and in the
ordinary course of our business. To the extent that certain lines of business
or service offerings are not considered to be compatible with the delivery of
communications or with obtaining our financial objectives, we may exit those
lines of business or stop offering those services.

Our communications
network

Our network is an
advanced, international, facilities based communications network. Today, we
primarily provide services over our own facilities. At December 31, 2006,
and after giving effect to the acquisition of Broadwing, our network
encompasses:

·       an
intercity network covering approximately 67,000 miles in North America;

·       local
networks in approximately 116 North American markets;


 12 






·       an
intercity network covering approximately 4,200 miles across Europe;

·       local
networks in approximately 9 European markets;

·       approximately
6.9 million square feet of Gateway and transmission facilities in North
America and Europe; and

·       a
1.28 Tbps capable transatlantic cable system currently equipped at 640 Gbps.

Intercity Networks.   Our approximately 67,000 mile fiber
optic intercity network in North America consists of the following:

·       Multiple
conduits. In approximately 30,000 miles of our intercity network, we have
installed groups of multiple conduits. We believe that the availability of
spare conduit will allow us to deploy future technological innovations in
optical networking components as well as providing us with the flexibility to
offer conduit to other entities.

·       Initial
installation of optical fiber strands designed to accommodate dense wave
division multiplexing transmission technology. In addition, we believe that the
installation of newer optical fibers will allow a combination of greater
wavelengths of light per strand, higher transmission speeds and longer physical
spacing between network electronics. We also believe that each new generation
of optical fiber will allow increases in the performance of these network
design aspects and will therefore enable lower unit costs.

·       High
speed SONET transmission equipment employing ring protection switching and
designed for high quality and reliable transmission. We expect that over time,
SONET equipped networks will be transitioned to employ a “mesh” architecture
made possible by advances in optical technologies. A mesh architecture allows
carriers to establish alternative protection schemes that reduce the amount of
capacity required to be reserved for protection purposes.

·       A
design that maximizes the use of open, non-proprietary hardware and software
interfaces to allow less costly upgrades as hardware and software technology
improves.

During the first quarter of 2001, we completed our
construction activities relating to our North American intercity network. Also
during 2001, we completed the migration of customer traffic from our original
leased capacity network to our completed North America intercity network.
Deployment of the North American intercity network was accomplished through
simultaneous construction efforts in multiple locations, with different
portions being completed at different times. In 2003, we added approximately
2,985 miles to our North America intercity network as part of the Genuity
transaction, and in 2005, we added approximately 30,000 miles (including IRUs) to
our intercity network as part of the WilTel Communications transaction. In 2006
and January 2007, we added approximately 26,000 miles (including IRUs) to
our North America intercity network as part of the various acquisitions during
that period, (including the Broadwing transaction which closed early in the
first quarter of 2007).

In Europe, we have completed construction of our fiber
optic intercity network with characteristics similar to those of the North
American intercity network in a multiple ring architecture. During 2000, we
completed the construction of Ring 1 and Ring 2 of our European network. Ring
1, which is approximately 1,900 miles, connects the major European cities of
Paris, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Brussels and London and was operational at December 31,
2000. Ring 2, which is approximately 1,650 miles, connects the major German
cities of Berlin, Cologne, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, and Munich. Ring 2
became operational during the first quarter of 2001. Subsequently, we created
two additional rings generally through IRU acquisitions to connect to our
expanded operations in Europe that are described below. The first ring is
approximately 2,150 miles and connects Copenhagen, Stockholm and Oslo and the
second ring is approximately 1,700 miles and connects Milan, Zurich and Geneva.


 13 






During 2002, we completed an expansion of our European
operations to seven additional cities. Our expansion to these additional
locations was facilitated through the acquisition of available capacity from
other carriers in the region. During 2003, we completed an expansion of our
European operations to four additional cities. In addition, during 2004, we
completed an expansion of our European operations to two cities. During 2005,
we completed an expansion of our European operations to one city. During 2006,
we obtained dark fiber primarily in those cities currently served by leased
wavelength capacity and additionally in 2006 we completed an expansion of our
European operations to 9 additional cities. In 2007, we expect to continue our
European expansion to 5 cities in Central and Eastern Europe by obtaining dark
fiber primarily in those cities currently served by leased wavelength capacity.
We expect to use the dark fiber with appropriate transmission equipment to sell
a full suite of transport and IP services.

Our European network is linked to our North American
intercity network by the Level 3 transatlantic 1.28 Tbps capable cable system,
which was also completed and placed into service during 2000. The transatlantic
cable system—which we refer to as the Yellow system—has a current capacity
available to us of 640 Gbps and is upgradeable to 1.28 Tbps. The
deployment of the Yellow system was completed pursuant to a co-build agreement
announced in February 2000, whereby Global Crossing Ltd. participated
in the construction of, and obtained a 50% ownership interest in, the Yellow
system. Under the co-build agreement, Level 3 and Global Crossing Ltd.
each now separately own and operate two of the four fiber pairs on the Yellow
system. We also acquired additional capacity on Global Crossing Ltd.’s
transatlantic cable, Atlantic Crossing 1, during 2000 to serve as redundant
capacity for our fiber pairs on the Yellow system. We also own capacity in the
TAT14 cable system. In connection with the WilTel acquisition, we have secured
additional capacity on Global Crossing’s transatlantic cable, Atlantic Crossing
1, and TAT-14. In 2006, we purchased 300 Gigabits of transatlantic
capacity with the right to purchase 300 Gigabits of additional capacity from
Apollo Submarine Cable System Ltd. In January 2007 we purchased 150
Gigabits of the additional capacity available from Apollo Submarine Cable
System Ltd. We are also now an owner on the Japan-US, and China-US cable
systems and an IRU holder on Southern Cross cable system, all by virtue of the
Wiltel acquisition.

Local
Market Infrastructure.   Our
local facilities include fiber optic metropolitan networks connecting our
intercity network and Gateway’s to buildings housing communications-intensive
end users and traffic aggregation points - including ILEC and CLEC central
offices, long distance carrier points-of-presence or POPs cable head-ends,
wireless providers’ facilities and Internet peering and transit facilities. As
of December 31, 2006, and after giving effect to the acquisition of
Broadwing, we had in the aggregate approximately 6,500 traffic aggregation points
and buildings connected to our metropolitan networks. Our high fiber count
metropolitan networks allow us to extend our services directly to our customers’
locations at low costs, because the availability of this network infrastructure
does not require extensive multiplexing equipment to reach a customer location,
which is required in ordinary fiber constrained metropolitan networks.

After giving effect to the acquisition of Broadwing, we
had secured approximately 6.9 million square feet of space for our Gateway
and transmission facilities as of December 31, 2006, and had completed the
buildout of approximately 4.6 million square feet of this space. Our
initial Gateway facilities were designed to house local sales staff,
operational staff, our transmission and Internet Protocol routing and
Softswitch facilities and technical space to accommodate colocation services—that
is, the colocation of equipment by high-volume Level 3 customers, in an
environmentally controlled, secure site with direct access to Level 3’s network
generally through dual, fault tolerant connections. Some of our facilities are
larger than our initial facilities and were designed to include a smaller
percentage of total square feet for our transmission and Internet Protocol routing/Softswitch
facilities and a larger percentage of total square feet to support colocation
services. Availability of these services varies by location.

As of December 31, 2006, and after giving effect
to the acquisition of Broadwing, we had operational, facilities-based, local
metropolitan networks in 116 U.S. markets and 9 European markets.


 14 






As of December 31,
2006, and after giving effect to the acquisition of Broadwing, we had
approximately 145 markets in service in North America and approximately 32 markets
in service in Europe.

Our Content
Delivery Network

Content Delivery Network, or CDN, describes a system
of computers networked together across the Internet to provide content to users
in the most efficient manner to enable an optimal user experience. In a CDN,
nodes or groups of computers are deployed in multiple locations closer to the
end user, also known as the “edge of the network” and cooperate with each other
to satisfy requests for content by end users, transparently moving content
behind the scenes to optimize the delivery process. Requests for content are
directed intelligently through sophisticated software applications to nodes
that are optimal for the needs of the end users, such as a specific level of
performance or cost efficiency. For example, when optimizing for performance,
node locations that can serve content quickly to the user may be chosen,
whereas, when optimizing for cost, node locations that are less expensive to
serve from may be chosen instead.

Our content delivery network is a unique configuration
of our hosting and network assets located in approximately 25 countries, which
is designed to improve the performance, reliability, and reach of web
applications.

We believe that as
a result of the combination of our recently acquired CDN assets and our
existing infrastructure, we are strongly positioned to grow the Level 3 market
share in the CDN business. This belief is based on several factors.

·       Network Scale.   Because we own our own network, our
ability to increase capacity to meet the needs of content providers is greater
than other CDN providers who do not have the flexibility to quickly increase
their available network capacity.

·       Network Reach.   Our customers reach global Internet
destinations using an average number of “hops” that are fewer than with most
any other provider, enabling our customers to easily reach their audiences and
provide better performance. The fewer number of hops required by our customers
to reach their Internet destinations serves to reduce latency and jitter.

·       Low Cost
Position.   Because we own the underlying network
infrastructure, we believe that we are positioned to offer cost advantages to
our customers. By moving content at scale, our customers can take advantage of
lower unit costs for bandwidth, colocation, servers and disk space.

CDN Applications

There are an increasing
number of applications for CDN, across many types of customers, particularly
Internet-centric businesses and businesses that desire to accommodate
increasingly larger file sizes for transmission over the Internet. Social
Networking businesses require CDN to provide their customers with fast reliable
music and video downloads. Likewise, through the use of CDN, software companies
are able to provide software downloads for their customers. Online retailers
and advertisers use CDN services to provide images and flash files and to
download advertisements. The media and entertainment industries use CDN
services to provide on-demand streaming and live streaming. Online gaming
companies provide for game downloads, applications updates and delivery of
demos and trailers through CDN.

Content
Distribution Services Architecture

The CDN platform uses our existing physical network
and infrastructure, and is composed of the Edge server or computer, which
provides caching and streaming functions and the Global server, which provides
load balancing—that is, a computer that directs the traffic to the most
efficient server to meet the end users request. The Edge server enables the
storage of popular content in a location that is closer to the end 


 15 






user and thereby reduces
bandwidth requirements and improves client response times for content stored in
the cache. The Global server or computer load balancing components of the CDN
directs end user requests to the content source that is best able to serve the
request of the particular end user, such as routing to the service noted that
is closest to the end user or to the one with the most capacity, depending on
the particular need of the end user.

We also transmit audio and video programming for our
customers over our fiber-optic network and via satellite. We use our
network to carry many live traditional broadcast and cable television events
from the site of the event to the network control centers of the broadcasters
of the event. These events include live sporting events of the major
professional sports leagues. For live events where the location is not known in
advance, such as breaking news stories in remote locations, we provide an
integrated satellite and fiber-optic network based service to transmit
the content to our customers. Most of our customers for these services contract
for the service on an event-by-event basis; however, we have some customers who
have purchased a dedicated point-to-point service, which enables these customers
to transmit programming at any time.

We also distribute
advertising spots to radio and television stations throughout the United
States, both electronically and in physical form. Customers for these services
can utilize a network-based method for aggregating, managing, storing and
distributing content for content owners and rights holders.

Distribution
Strategy

Our communications services sales strategy with
respect to our Wholesale Markets Group and Europe is to utilize a direct sales
force focused on companies with high bandwidth and/or voice requirements. These
businesses include incumbent local exchange carriers, established next
generation carriers, international carriers also known as PTTs, major ISPs, broadband
cable television operators, major interexchange carriers, wireless carriers,
systems integrators, governments, emerging VoIP service providers, calling card
providers, conferencing providers and call centers.

With respect to our Business Markets Group, medium to
large enterprises will be serviced by a Major Markets Sales Force or a direct
sales force. Smaller business opportunities will be serviced by the Small
Business Sales Channel and will generally offer pre-defined bundles of
services.

Our communications services sales strategy with
respect to the Content Markets Group is also to utilize a direct sales force. Targeted
customers include video distribution companies; providers of online gaming and
mega-portals; software service providers; social networking providers; and
traditional media distribution companies including broadcasters, television
networks and sports leagues.

We have in place policies and procedures to review the
financial condition of potential and existing customers. We apply these
procedures to determine whether collectibility is probable prior to the time
that we begin delivering services to a customer. If the financial condition of
an existing customer deteriorates to a point where payment for services is in
doubt, we will not recognize revenue attributable to that customer until we
receive cash. Based on these policies and procedures, we believe our exposure
to collection risk within the communications business and the possible effect
on our financial statements is limited. We are not immune from the effects of
possible downturns in the economy and specifically the telecommunications
industry; however, we believe the concentration of credit risk with respect to
receivables is mitigated due to the dispersion of our customer base among
geographic areas and remedies provided by terms of contracts and statutes.

For the year ended December 31,
2006, our top ten customers represented approximately 54% of our consolidated
total revenue. Revenue from our largest customer, AT&T Inc. and its
subsidiaries, including SBC Communications, BellSouth and Cingular, (assuming
those subsidiaries were wholly owned by AT&T for all of 2006), represented
approximately 32.4% of our consolidated total revenue for 2006. The next 


 16 






largest
customer accounted for approximately 6.6% of our consolidated total revenue and
most of the remaining top ten customers each account for 2% or less of our
consolidated total revenue.

In connection with the acquisition
of WilTel in December 2005, we acquired a large customer contract between
WilTel and SBC Communications, a subsidiary of AT&T. We expect that the
revenue generated under this contract will continue to decline over time as SBC
Communications migrates its traffic from our network to the merged SBC and
AT&T Communications network that SBC Communications acquired from the
former AT&T.

Business Support
Systems

In order to pursue our sales and distribution
strategies, we have developed and are continuing to develop and implement a set
of integrated software applications designed to automate our operational
processes. Through the development of a robust, scalable business support
system, we believe that we have the opportunity to develop a competitive
advantage relative to traditional telecommunications companies. In addition, we
recognize that for the success of certain of our services that some of our
business support systems will need to be easily accessible and usable directly
by our customers.

Key design aspects
of the business support system development program are:

·       integrated
modular applications to allow us to upgrade specific applications as new
services are available;

·       a
scalable architecture that allows our customers and distributors direct access
to certain functions that would otherwise have to be performed by our
employees;

·       phased
completion of software releases designed to allow us to test functionality on
an incremental basis;

·       “web-enabled”
applications so that on-line access to order entry, network operations,
billing, and customer care functions is available to all authorized users,
including our customers;

·       use
of a tiered, client/server architecture that is designed to separate data and
applications, and is expected to enable continued improvement of software
functionality at minimum cost; and

·       use of pre-developed or
“shrink wrapped” applications, where applicable, which will interface to our
internally developed applications.

Our Employees

As of December 31,
2006, and after giving effect to the acquisition of Broadwing, we had
approximately 7,400 employees. We believe that our success depends in large
part on our ability to attract and retain substantial numbers of qualified
employees.


 17










Competition

The communications industry is highly competitive. A
number of factors in recent years have increased the number of competitors in
the market. First, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 created opportunities for
non-incumbent providers to enter the marketplace. Second, the capital markets
responded by making funding more available to new and existing competitors.
Third, enthusiasm over the opportunities created by the rapid developments of
the Internet led investors and market participants in general to overestimate
the rate at which demand for communications services would grow. Finally, the
emergence of new IP-based services has created prospects for new entrants with
non-traditional business models to compete with legacy providers.

We believe that a confluence of these factors created
an unsustainable level of competition in the market. We believe that this was
evidenced by both the number of competitors vying for similar business and by
the amount of inventory or capacity each brought to the market for many
services. The result of these actions was an oversupply of capacity and an
intensely competitive environment.

While we believe the current industry structure has
improved significantly, we believe that further restructuring is likely. With
the growth of communications demand, excess capacity is increasingly being
absorbed. Similarly, some form of industry consolidation will continue to occur
based on underlying economics. Given the large ongoing fixed costs associated
with operating a backbone network, we believe that the natural industry
structure will continue to evolve to a more limited number of competitors with
each having high traffic scale across their networks.

While we believe that the long-run industry structure
will evolve toward that described above, uncertainty surrounds how the existing
competitive landscape will evolve toward this new structure. For example, while
a number of next-generation and incumbent providers have been consolidated, we
believe there are still a number of competitors operating fundamentally poor
business models, with severe resource constraints, and are unlikely to be
long-term survivors in their current forms. In addition, the ultimate impact of
the recently completed transactions by AT&T and Verizon is yet to be known.

We believe that each competitor’s long-run success in
the market will be driven by its available resources (for example, financial,
personnel, marketing, customers) and the effectiveness of its business model
(for example, service focus and mix, cost effectiveness, ability to adapt to
new technologies, channel effectiveness). We recognize that many of our
existing and potential competitors in the communications industry have
resources significantly greater than ours.

Our primary competitors are long distance carriers,
incumbent local exchange carriers, competitive local exchange carriers, PTTs,
Content Delivery Network companies, and other companies that provide
communications services. The following information identifies key competitors
for each of our product offerings.

Our key competitors for our voice service offerings
are other providers of wholesale communications services including AT&T,
Verizon, Sprint and competitive local exchange carriers. Our key competitors
for managed modem services are other providers of dial up Internet access
including Verizon and Qwest Communications.

For our IP and Data services, we compete with
companies that include Verizon,  Sprint,
AT&T, Qwest Communications, Global Crossing, Cogent and XO in North
America, and Sprint, Verizon, France Telecom, Deutsche Telecom, Global Crossing
and Cogent in Europe.

For transport services, our key competitors in the
United States are other facilities based communications companies including
AT&T, Verizon, Sprint, Qwest Communications and XO. In Europe, our key
competitors are other carriers such as PTTs, Telia International, Colt Telecom
Group plc, Verizon, and Global Crossing.


 18 






Our key competitors for our colocation services are
other facilities based communications companies, and other colocation providers
such as web hosting companies and third party colocation companies. In the
United States, these companies include AT&T, Savvis, Equinix, Switch &
Data and Qwest Communications. In Europe, competitors include Global Switch,
InterXion, Redbus, Telecity and Telehouse Europe.

For enterprise services, our key competitors include
incumbent local exchange carriers (such as AT&T, Verizon and Qwest), long
distance services providers (such as Sprint), and competitive local exchange
carriers (such as Time Warner Telecom and XO).

For content distribution network or CDN services, our
key competitors include Akamai Technologies and Limelight Networks.

The communications
industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. For
instance, recent technological advances permit substantial increases in
transmission capacity of both new and existing fiber, and the introduction of
new products or emergence of new technologies may reduce the cost or increase
the supply of certain services similar to those which we plan on providing.
Accordingly, in the future our most significant competitors may be new entrants
to the communications industry, which are not burdened by an installed base of
outmoded or legacy equipment.

Regulation

Federal Regulation

The Federal Communications Commission or the FCC has
jurisdiction over interstate and international communications services, among
other things. The FCC imposes extensive regulations on common carriers that
have some degree of market power such as incumbent local exchange carriers or ILECs.
The FCC imposes less regulation on common carriers without market power, such
as us. The FCC permits these non-dominant carriers to provide domestic
interstate services (including long distance and access services) without prior
authorization; but it requires carriers to receive an authorization to
construct and operate telecommunications facilities and to provide or resell
telecommunications services, between the United States and international
points. We have obtained FCC approval to land our transatlantic cable in the
United States. We have obtained FCC authorization to provide international
services on a facilities and resale basis. Under the Telecommunications Act of
1996 or the 1996 Act, any entity, including cable television companies,
electric and gas utilities, may enter any telecommunications market, subject to
reasonable state regulation of safety, quality and consumer protection.

Generally speaking, CLEC access to ILEC networks and
utility poles are implemented through individual negotiations, which are
governed by the 1996 Act and applicable FCC Rules. Under the 1996 Act, CLEC
access to ILEC networks is heavily regulated and the rules governing that
access have been contentious. Over the past several years, however, the
United States Supreme Court has affirmed FCC jurisdiction over ILEC unbundling,
certain specific unbundling requirements and the FCC’s authority to set the
mechanism which governs the rates ILECs may charge for interconnection and
unbundling.

The FCC has been gradually reducing the obligations on
ILECs to provide unbundled network elements. In its most recent order in 2005,
the FCC eliminated the obligation to provide local switching and identified
circumstances under which an ILEC’s unbundling obligations with regard to high
capacity local loops and dedicated transport would also be eliminated. The
availability of high capacity loops and transport depends upon tests based on
the capacity of the facility, the business line density of incumbent wire
centers, and the existence of collocated fiber providers in incumbent wire
centers. We do not rely extensively on unbundled network elements purchased
from ILECs but we do purchase special access provided by the ILECs under
contracts or tariffs.


 19 






The FCC has pending a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”)
to initiate a comprehensive review of rules governing the pricing of
special access service offered by ILECs subject to price cap regulation.
Special access pricing by these carriers currently is subject to price cap
rules, as well as pricing flexibility rules which permit these carriers to
offer volume and term discounts and contract tariffs (Phase I pricing
flexibility) and/or remove from price caps regulation special access service in
a defined geographic area (Phase II pricing flexibility) based on showings of
competition. In the NPRM the FCC tentatively concludes to continue to permit
pricing flexibility where competitive market forces are sufficient to constrain
special access prices, but undertakes an examination of whether the current
triggers for pricing flexibility accurately assess competition and have worked
as intended. The NPRM also asks for comment on whether certain aspects of ILEC
special access tariff offerings (e.g., basing discounts on previous volumes of
service; tying nonrecurring charges and termination penalties to term
commitments; and imposing use restrictions in connection with discounts), are
unreasonable. At this time, we have no indication when the FCC might conclude
this rulemaking and we cannot predict the impact, if any, the NPRM will have on
our network cost structure.

The 1996 Act also codifies the ILECs’ equal access and
nondiscrimination obligations and preempts inconsistent state regulation.

As of August 1, 2001, our tariffs for interstate
end user services were eliminated and our tariffs for international
interexchange services were eliminated on January 28, 2002. Our rates must
still be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. Our state tariffs remain in
place. We have historically relied primarily on our sales force and marketing
activities to provide information to our customers regarding these matters and
expect to continue to do so. Further, in accordance with the FCC’s orders we
maintain a schedule of our rates, terms and conditions for our domestic and
international private line services on our web site.

Intercarrier
compensation.   Telecommunications
carriers compensate one another for traffic carried on each other’s networks.
Interexchange carriers pay access charges to local telephone companies for long
distance calls that originate and terminate on local networks. Local telephone
companies typically charge one another for local and Internet-bound traffic
terminating on each other’s networks. The entire methodology by which carriers
compensate one another for exchanged traffic, whether it be for local,
intrastate or interstate traffic, is under review at the FCC.

Apart from this comprehensive review of intercarrier
compensation, individual compensation issues have been the subject of FCC
rulings. The issue of compensation to be paid for calls dialed to the Internet
service providers has been a significant one in the regulatory areas. Beginning
in June 1997, every RBOC advised CLECs that they did not consider calls in
the same local calling area from their customers to the CLEC’s ISP customers to
be local calls under the interconnection agreements between the RBOCs and the
CLECs. The RBOCs claimed that these calls are exchange access calls for which
exchange access charges would be owed. The RBOCs claimed, however, that the FCC
exempted these calls from access charges so that no compensation is owed to the
CLECs for transporting and terminating such calls. As a result, the RBOCs
threatened to withhold, and in many cases did withhold, reciprocal compensation
for the transport and termination of such calls. On February 25, 1999, the
FCC issued a Declaratory Ruling on the issue of inter-carrier
compensation for calls bound to ISPs. The FCC ruled that the calls are
jurisdictionally interstate calls, not local calls.

The FCC, however, determined that this issue was not
dispositive of whether intercarrier compensation is owed. That decision was
appealed to the D.C. Circuit which held that the FCC had failed to adequately
support its conclusions under the requirements of the 1996 Act. On April 18,
2001, the FCC adopted a new order regarding intercarrier compensation for
ISP-bound traffic. In that Order, the Commission established a new intercarrier
compensation mechanism for ISP-bound traffic with declining rates over a three
year period. In addition to establishing a new rate structure, the Commission
capped the 


 20 






amount of ISP bound
traffic that would be “compensable” and prohibited payment of intercarrier
compensation for ISP-bound traffic to carriers entering new markets. The April 2001
order was appealed to the D.C. Circuit. On May 3, 2002, the D.C. Circuit
found that the FCC had not provided an adequate legal basis for its ruling, and
therefore remanded the matter to the FCC. In the interim, the court let the FCC’s
rules stand. It is unclear when the FCC will issue revised findings in
response to the latest remand. On October 8, 2004, the FCC adopted an
order in response to a July 2003 Petition for Forbearance filed by Core
Communications (“Core Petition”) asking the FCC to forbear from enforcing the
rate caps, growth cap, and new market and mirroring rules of the ISP
Remand Order. The FCC granted the Core Petition with respect to the growth cap
and the new market rules, but denied the Petition as to the rate caps and
mirroring rules (“Core Order”). That decision has been appealed to the
D.C. Circuit.

Prior to 2004, we entered into agreements providing
for payment of compensation for terminating ISP-bound traffic with Verizon, in
its former Bell Atlantic operating territory, with SBC Corporation for the 13-state
operating territory that includes its affiliates Pacific Bell, Southwestern
Bell, Ameritech and Southern New England Telephone, and with BellSouth in its
nine-state operating territory. We also entered into interconnection agreements
with Qwest, Cincinnati Bell Telephone, and Sprint that reflect the intercarrier
compensation rates adopted by the FCC in its ISP Remand Order. Given the
general uncertainty surrounding the effect of the FCC decisions, appeals, and
the remand, we may have to change how we treat the compensation we receive for
terminating calls bound for ISP-bound traffic if the agreements under which
compensation is paid provide for the incorporation of changes in FCC rules and
regulations.

In May 2004, we reached a new interconnection
agreement with Bell South, now AT&T, that incorporated the terms of the ISP
Remand Order. BellSouth requested renegotiation of this agreement in early October 2006
however the parties continue to provide services and exchange payments under the
agreement until a successor agreement is reached. In September 2004, Level
3 and Verizon amended our existing interconnection agreement to establish
intercarrier compensation terms. The compensation section of that agreement
expires in August 2007. Level 3 and Verizon will continue to provide
services under this agreement until a successor agreement is reached. In late
2003, we reached an agreement with SBC, now AT&T, continuing payment for
the exchange of ISP-bound traffic. In February 2005, we and SBC agreed to
successor interconnection agreements which cover the payment for the exchange
of ISP-bound traffic. The SBC agreement expired on December 31,
2006. Level 3 and SBC continue to provide services and exchange payments under
that agreement until a successor agreement is reached.

We are negotiating new agreements with each of these
carriers but at this time cannot predict what the final terms will be,
including compensation for ISP-bound traffic.

Universal Service.   Level
3 is subject to federal and state regulations that implement universal service
support for access to communications services in rural, high-cost and
low-income markets at reasonable rates; and access to advanced communications
services by schools, libraries and rural health care providers. Currently, the
FCC assesses Level 3 a percentage of interstate revenue it receives from retail
customers as its contribution to the federal Universal Service Fund. The FCC is
currently considering changing the method by which our contributions are
assessed to a flat-fee charge, such as a per-line or per-number charge. Any
change in the assessment methodology may affect Level 3’s revenues but at this
time, it is not possible to predict the extent we would be affected if at all.

State Regulation

The 1996 Act is intended to increase competition in
the telecommunications industry, especially in the local exchange market. With
respect to local services, ILECs are required to allow interconnection to their
networks and to provide unbundled access to network facilities, as well as a
number of other pro-competitive measures. Because the implementation of
the 1996 Act is subject to numerous state 


 21 






rulemaking proceedings on
these issues, it is currently difficult to predict how quickly full competition
for local services will be realized.

State regulatory agencies have jurisdiction when our
facilities and services are used to provide intrastate telecommunications
services. A portion of our traffic may be classified as intrastate
telecommunications and therefore subject to state regulation. We expect that we
will offer more intrastate telecommunications services (including intrastate
switched services) as our business and product lines expand. To provide
intrastate services, we generally must obtain a certificate of public
convenience and necessity from the state regulatory agency and comply with
state requirements for telecommunications utilities, including state tariffing
requirements. We currently are authorized to provide telecommunications
services in all fifty states and the District of Columbia. In addition, we will
be required to obtain and maintain interconnection agreements with ILECs where
we wish to provide service. We expect that we should be able to negotiate or
otherwise obtain renewals or successor agreements through adoption of others’
contracts or arbitration proceedings, although the rates, terms, and conditions
applicable to interconnection and the exchange of traffic with certain ILECs
could change significantly in certain cases. The degree to which the rates,
terms, and conditions may change will depend not only upon the negotiation and
arbitration process and availability of other interconnection agreements, but
will also depend in significant part upon state commission proceedings that
either uphold or modify the current regimes governing interconnection and the
exchange of certain kinds of traffic between carriers. In May 2004, we
reached agreement on new interconnection agreements with BellSouth in all 9 of
the BellSouth states. In September 2004, we reached new interconnection
agreements with Verizon, and with SBC in February 2005.

States also often require
prior approvals or notifications for certain transfers of assets, customers or
ownership of certificated carriers and for issuances by certified carriers of
equity or debt.

Local Regulation

Our networks are subject
to numerous local regulations such as building codes and licensing. Such
regulations vary on a city-by-city, county-by-county and state-by-state basis.
To install our own fiber optic transmission facilities, we need to obtain
rights-of-way over privately and publicly owned land. Rights-of-way
that are not already secured may not be available to us on economically
reasonable or advantageous terms.

Regulation of Voice
over Internet Protocol (VoIP)

Federal and State

Due to the growing acceptance and deployment of VoIP
services, the FCC and state public utility commissions are conducting
regulatory proceedings that could affect the regulatory duties and rights of
entities such as us or our affiliates that provide IP-based voice applications.
There is regulatory uncertainty as to the imposition of access charges and
other taxes, fees and surcharges on VoIP services that use the public switched
telephone network. There is regulatory uncertainty as to the imposition of
traditional retail, common carrier regulation on VoIP products and services.

The FCC is also considering several petitions filed by
individual companies concerning the regulatory rights and obligations of
providers of IP-based voice services, and networks that handle IP-based voice
traffic or that exchange that traffic with operators of PSTN facilities.

On October 18, 2002, AT&T Corporation filed a
petition with the FCC requesting a declaratory ruling that calls that originate
and terminate on the PSTN, but which may be converted into IP during some part
of the transmission, are exempt from access charges under existing FCC rules.
On April 21, 


 22 






2004, the FCC rejected
AT&T’s Petition, stating that the calls described by AT&T were telecommunications
services subject to access charges under existing FCC rules.

On September 22, 2003, Vonage Holdings
Corporation or Vonage filed a petition with the FCC requesting a declaration
that its offerings, which originate on a broadband network in IP format and
terminate on the PSTN, or vice versa, are interstate information services not
subject to state regulation under the federal Communications Act and existing
FCC rules. On November 10, 2004, the FCC adopted an order ruling that
Vonage’s service was an interstate service not subject to state regulation. The
FCC did not rule whether the service is only an information service that
is not subject to Title II under the Act. Appeals were filed in a number
of circuits, which appeals were consolidated and assigned to the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 8th Circuit. Oral arguments were heard on January 12,
2006. A decision is pending. Until a decision is released, we cannot predict
how a ruling might affect our provision of VoIP services.

On June 3, 2005, the FCC issued an order
requiring all interconnected VoIP providers to deliver enhanced 911
capabilities to their subscribers by no later than November 28, 2005. We
have modified our service offerings to VoIP providers in order to assist those
providers in complying with the FCC mandate. A number of parties appealed this
FCC order. On December 15, 2005, the DC Circuit Court of Appeals upheld
the FCC VoIP 911 Order in its entirety. It is too early to predict how this
outcome will affect customer demand for our 911 services

A number of state public utility commissions are
conducting regulatory proceedings that could impact our rights and obligations
with respect to IP-based voice applications. Previously, the Minnesota Public
Utilities Commission or MPUC ruled that Vonage’s DigitalVoice service was a
telephone service under state law, and ordered Vonage to obtain state
certification, file tariffs, and comply with 911 requirements before continuing
to offer the service in the state. Vonage filed a request in the Federal
District Court for the District of Minnesota to enjoin the MPUC’s decision. On October 16,
2003, a federal judge granted Vonage’s request for an injunction, concluding
that Vonage provides an information service immune from state regulation and thereby
barring the MPUC from enforcing its decision. On December 22, 2004, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the District Court’s
judgment on the basis of the FCC’s determination that Vonage’s service was
interstate and noted that the MPUC would be free to challenge the injunction if
it or another party prevailed on an appeal of the FCC’s Vonage Order.

We cannot predict the
outcome of any of these petitions and regulatory proceedings or any similar
petitions and regulatory proceedings pending before the FCC or state public
utility commissions. Moreover, we cannot predict how their outcomes may affect
our operations or whether the FCC or state public utility commissions will
impose additional requirements, regulations or charges upon our provision of
services related to IP communications.

European Regulation

Unlike the United States which has a fractured
regulatory scheme with respect to VoIP services, the European Union has adopted
a more systematic approach to the convergence of networks and VoIP regulation
specifically. The European Commission will oversee the implementation by its
member-states of six new directives developed to regulate electronic
communications in a technology and platform neutral manner. Implementation of
the directives has not been uniform across the Member States of the European
Union and it is difficult to predict when they will be implemented at the
national level. Even with harmonization, the national regulatory agencies will
continue to be responsible for issuing general authorizations and specific
licenses.

The European Union’s approach to the regulation of
VoIP turns on whether VoIP is voice telephony. The European Commission has
defined voice telephony to have four elements: (1) commercial offering as
voice telephony; (2) provision to the public; (3) provision to and
from the public switched telephone network termination points; and (4) direct
speech transport and switching of speech in real time, 


 23 






particularly at the same
level of reliability and speech quality as provided by the PSTN. In its “Communication
from the Commission, Consultation on Voice on the Internet” in June 2000,
the European Commission directed that “Member States should continue to allow
Internet access providers to offer voice over Internet protocol under data
transmission general authorizations, and that specific licensing conditions are
not justified.”

The European Commission has subsequently redefined its
definitions to suggest that some VoIP offerings are voice telephony. In its December 2000
communication, the European Commission noted that increasing quality and
reliability as well as marketing of voice capabilities with bundled services,
made certain kinds of “voice over Internet” much more like voice services. While
the current European Commission directives do not mandate the treatment of VoIP
as voice telephony, the commission will continue to reevaluate the regulation
of VoIP as service quality becomes the equivalent of traditional voice
telephony.

In February 2003, the European Union adopted a
new regulatory framework for electronic communications that is designed to
address in a technologically neutral manner the convergence of communications
across telecommunications, computer and broadcasting networks. The directives
address: (1) framework (2) interconnection and access, (3) authorization
and licensing, (4) universal service and (5) privacy. These
directives and an additional decision on radio spectrum replace the existing 20
directives on electronic communications. Under the framework, voice telephony
providers will face additional obligations, including specific licensing and
universal service obligations. Others will likely face new regulation. One
example could be VoIP. If it is classified as an electronic communications
service, rather than voice telephony, it would still be subject to additional
regulations to achieve regulatory parity with other electronic communications.

The United Kingdom was one of the first countries to
fully implement the European Union’s new framework for electronic
communications, which it did by July 25, 2003. At that time, certain
provisions of the United Kingdom’s Telecommunications Act of 1984 were
repealed. Pursuant to that framework, the licensing regime was replaced with a
general authorization. Our existing licenses were canceled and replaced with a
general authorization.

Under the regime, the United Kingdom regulates VoIP as
an electronic communication service. The degree of regulation imposed on the
service depends upon whether the service is considered to be a Publicly
Available Telephone Service (PATS). A service is considered to be a PATS if the
following conditions are met: it is marketed as a substitute for the
traditional telephone service; the service appears to the customer to be a
substitute for the traditional public telephone service over which they expect
access to emergency services; or the service provides the customers sole means
of access to the traditional circuit switched public telephone network.

While the Ofcom, the United Kingdom regulator, has
established technical standards and interconnection rights for VoIP service
providers, it has recently opened a consultation to assess the appropriate
allocation of phone numbers to VoIP providers. We cannot predict the result of
this proceeding and how it will affect our ability to provide services.

As we expand the
deployment of our VoIP applications in Europe, we will have to consider the
appropriate regulatory requirements for each nation before deploying services.

Canadian Regulation

The Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission, or the CRTC, has jurisdiction to regulate long
distance telecommunications services in Canada. Regulatory developments over
the past several years have terminated the historic monopolies of the regional
telephone companies, bringing significant competition to this industry for both
domestic and international long distance services, but also 


 24 






lessening regulation of
domestic long distance companies. Resellers, which, as well as facilities based
carriers, now have interconnection rights, but which are not obligated to file
tariffs, may not only provide transborder services to the U.S. by reselling the
services provided by the regional companies and other entities but also may
resell the services of the former monopoly international carrier, Teleglobe
Canada or Teleglobe, including offering international switched services
provisioned over leased lines. Although the CRTC formerly restricted the
practice of “switched hubbing” over leased lines through intermediate countries
to or from a third country, the CRTC lifted this restriction. The Teleglobe
monopoly on international services and undersea cable landing rights terminated
as of October 1, 1998, although the provision of Canadian international
transmission facilities based services remains restricted to “Canadian carriers”
with majority ownership by Canadians. Ownership of non-international
transmission facilities are limited to Canadian carriers but we can own
international undersea cables landing in Canada. We cannot, under current law,
enter the Canadian market as a provider of transmission facilities based
domestic services. In 2003, two committees of the Canadian House of Commons
issued conflicting recommendations on whether to lift the foreign ownership
restrictions that prohibit carriers like us from owning intra-Canadian
transmission facilities. If the ownership restrictions are repealed, we
anticipate that we will be able to expand our operations and service offerings
in Canada. Recent CRTC rulings address issues such as the framework for
international contribution charges payable to the local exchange carriers to
offset some of the capital and operating costs of the provision of switched
local access services of the incumbent regional telephone companies, in their
capacity as ILECs, and the new entrant CLECs.

While competition is
permitted in virtually all other Canadian telecommunications market segments,
we believe that the regional companies continue to retain a substantial
majority of the local and calling card markets. Beginning in May 1997, the
CRTC released a number of decisions opening to competition the Canadian local
telecommunications services market, which decisions were made applicable in the
territories of all of the regional telephone companies. As a result, networks
operated by CLECs may now be interconnected with the networks of the ILECs.
Transmission facilities based CLECs are subject to the same majority Canadian
ownership “Canadian carrier” requirements as transmission facilities based long
distance carriers. CLECs have the same status as ILECs, but they do not have
universal service or customer tariff-filing obligations. CLECs are
subject to certain consumer protection safeguards and other CRTC regulatory
oversight requirements. CLECs must file interconnection tariffs for services to
interexchange service providers and wireless service providers. Certain ILEC
services must be provided to CLECs on an unbundled basis and subject to
mandatory pricing, including central office codes, subscriber listings, and
local loops in small urban and rural areas. For a five-year period, certain
other important CLEC services must be provided on an unbundled basis at
mandated prices, notably unbundled local loops in large, urban areas. ILECs,
which, unlike CLECs, remained fully regulated, are subject to price cap
regulation in respect of their utility services and these services must not be
priced below cost. Interexchange contribution payments are now pooled and
distributed among ILECs and CLECs according to a formula based on their
respective proportions of residential lines, with no explicit contribution
payable from local business exchange or directory revenue. CLECs must pay an
annual telecommunications fee based on their proportion of total CLEC operating
revenue. All bundled and unbundled local services (including residential lines
and other bulk services) may now be resold, but ILECs need not provide these
services to resellers at wholesale prices. Transmission facilities based local
and long distance carriers (but not resellers) are entitled to colocate
equipment in ILEC central offices pursuant to terms and conditions of tariffs
and intercarrier agreements. Certain local competition issues are still to be
resolved. The CRTC has ruled that resellers cannot be classified as CLECs, and
thus are not entitled to CLEC interconnection terms and conditions. The CRTC
conducted a proceeding in 2004 to review issues relating to the introduction of
VoIP technology. The CRTC has expressed a number of preliminary views about how
it proposes to regulate VoIP services including the view that VoIP services
(and service providers) should be regulated according to the CRTC’s existing
rules. If the preliminary views are confirmed, then the rules for 


 25 






VoIP-based
services will depend on the category of service provider (ie., ILEC, CLEC or
reseller), the nature of the service and the geographic area in which the
service is provided.

Our Other Business

Our company was incorporated as Peter Kiewit Sons’, Inc.
in Delaware in 1941 to continue a construction business founded in Omaha,
Nebraska in 1884. In subsequent years, we invested a portion of the cash
flow generated by our construction activities in a variety of other businesses.
We entered the coal mining business in 1943, the telecommunications business in
1988, the information services business in 1990 and the alternative energy
business in 1991. We have also made investments in several development-stage
ventures.

In December 1997, our stockholders ratified the
decision of the Board to effect the split-off separating our historical
construction business from the remainder of our operations. As a result of the
split-off, which was completed on March 31, 1998, we no longer own any interest
in the prior construction business. In conjunction with the split-off, we
changed our name to “Level 3 Communications, Inc.,” and the entity that
held the prior construction business changed its name to “Peter Kiewit Sons’, Inc.”

On November 30, 2005, we completed the sale of
our (i)Structure, LLC subsidiary
to Infocrossing, Inc. for $84.8 million in total consideration, including
$82.3 million in cash and $2.5 million in Infocrossing common stock.
Prior to the sale, (i)Structure
provided computer operations outsourcing to customers located primarily in the
United States.

On September 7, 2006,
we completed the sale of 100% of the capital stock of our indirect, wholly
owned subsidiary, Software Spectrum, Inc., to Insight Enterprises, Inc.
In connection with the transaction, we received total proceeds of approximately
$351 million in cash. Prior to the sale, Software Spectrum was a leading direct
marketer of software and provider of software licensing services to
corporations. With the completion of the sale of Software Spectrum, we exited
the information services business.

Coal Mining

We are engaged in coal mining through our subsidiary,
KCP, Inc. (“KCP”). KCP has a 50% interest in two mines, which are operated
by a subsidiary of Peter Kiewit Sons’, Inc. (“PKS”). Decker Coal Company (“Decker”)
is a joint venture with Western Minerals, Inc., which is a subsidiary of
Rio Tinto Energy America Inc. Black Butte Coal Company (“Black Butte”) is a
joint venture with Bitter Creek Coal Company, a subsidiary of Anadarko
Petroleum Corporation. The Decker mine is located in southeastern Montana and
the Black Butte mine is in southwestern Wyoming. The coal mines use the surface
mining method.

The coal produced from the KCP mines is sold primarily
to electric utilities, which burn coal to produce steam to generate
electricity. Essentially all of the sales were made under long-term contracts.
Approximately 37%, 44% and 59% of KCP’s revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, were derived from long-term contracts with Commonwealth Edison
Company (with Decker) and The Detroit Edison Company (with Decker). KCP has
commitments to deliver approximately 12.2 million tons of coal through
2012 under contracts with Commonwealth Edison and Detroit Edison. KCP also has
other sales commitments, including those with Sierra Pacific, Idaho Power,
PacifiCorp, and Minnesota Power that provide for the delivery of approximately
9.3 million tons through 2009. The level of cash flows generated in recent
periods by our coal operations will not continue because the delivery
requirements under certain of our current long-term contracts decline
significantly. Under a mine management agreement, KCP pays a subsidiary of PKS
an annual fee equal to 30% of KCP’s adjusted operating income. The fee for 2006
was approximately $2 million.


 26 






The coal industry is highly competitive. KCP competes
not only with other domestic and foreign coal suppliers, some of whom are
larger and have greater capital resources than KCP, but also with alternative
methods of generating electricity and alternative energy sources. In 2005, the
most recent year for which information is available, KCP’s production
represented less than 1% of total U.S. coal production. Demand for KCP’s coal
is affected by economic, political and regulatory factors. For example, recent “clean
air” laws may stimulate demand for low sulfur coal. KCP’s western coal reserves
generally have a low sulfur content (less than one percent) and are currently
useful principally as fuel for coal-fired, steam-electric generating
units.

KCP’s sales of its coal, like sales by other western
coal producers, typically provide for delivery to customers at the mine. A
significant portion of the customer’s delivered cost of coal is attributable to
transportation costs. Most of the coal sold from KCP’s western mines is
currently shipped by rail to utilities outside Montana and Wyoming. The Decker
and Black Butte mines are each served by a single railroad. Many of their
western coal competitors are served by two railroads and such competitors’
customers often benefit from lower transportation costs because of competition
between railroads for coal hauling business. Other western coal producers,
particularly those in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming, have lower stripping
ratios (that is, the amount of overburden that must be removed in proportion to
the amount of minable coal) than the Black Butte and Decker mines, often
resulting in lower comparative costs of production. As a result, KCP’s
production costs per ton of coal at the Black Butte and Decker mines can be as
much as four and five times greater than production costs of certain
competitors. Because of these cost disadvantages, there is no assurance that
KCP will be able to enter into additional long-term coal purchase contracts for
Black Butte and Decker production. In addition, these cost disadvantages may
adversely affect KCP’s ability to compete for sales in the future.

We are required to comply with various federal, state
and local laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. KCP’s
share of land reclamation expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006
was approximately $3 million. KCP’s share of accrued estimated reclamation
costs was $96 million at December 31, 2006. We did not make
significant capital expenditures for environmental compliance with respect to
the coal business in 2006. We believe our compliance with environmental protection
and land restoration laws will not affect our competitive position since our
competitors in the mining industry are similarly affected by such laws.
However, failure to comply with environmental protection and land restoration
laws, or actual reclamation costs in excess of our accruals, could have an
adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.


 27










Glossary of Terms


 
  
  access
  
  
   
  
  
  Telecommunications
  services that permit long distance carriers to use local exchange facilities
  to originate and/or terminate long distance service.
  
 
 
  
  access charges
  
  
   
  
  
  The fees paid by
  long distance carriers to LECs for originating and terminating long distance
  calls on the LECs’ local networks.
  
 
 
  
  backbone
  
  
   
  
  
  A high-speed
  network that interconnects smaller, independent networks. It is the through-
  portion of a transmission network, as opposed to spurs which branch off the
  through- portions.
  
 
 
  
  ATM (asynchronous
  transfer mode) 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  An information transfer standard that is one of a general class of packet
  technologies that relay traffic by way of an address contained within the
  first five bytes of a standard fifty-three byte long packet or cell. The ATM
  format can be used by many different information systems, including LANs, to
  deliver traffic at varying rates, permitting a mix of data, voice and video.
  
 
 
  
  CAP
  
  
   
  
  
  Competitive
  Access Provider. A company that provides its customers with an alternative to
  the local exchange company for local transport of private line and special
  access telecommunications services.
  
 
 
  
  caching
  
  
   
  
  
  A process by
  which a Web storage device or cache is located between Web servers (or origin
  servers) and a user, and watches requests for HTML pages and objects
  such as images, audio, and video, then saves a copy for itself. If there is
  another request for the same object, the cache will use its copy, instead of
  asking the origin server for it again.
  
 
 
  
  capacity
  
  
   
  
  
  The information
  carrying ability of a telecommunications facility.
  
 
 
  
  carrier
  
  
   
  
  
  A provider of
  communications transmission services by fiber, wire or radio.
  
 
 
  
  CDN
  
  
   
  
  
  Content
  Distribution Network or CDN describes a system of computers networked
  together across the Internet that cooperate transparently to deliver various
  types of content to end users. The delivery process is optimized generally
  for either performance or cost. When optimizing for performance, locations
  that can serve content quickly to the user are chosen. When optimizing for
  cost, locations that are less expensive to serve from may be chosen instead.
  
 
 
  
  central office
  
  
   
  
  
  Telephone company
  facility where subscribers’ lines are joined to switching equipment for
  connecting other subscribers to each other, locally and long distance.
  
 
 
  
  CLEC
  
  
   
  
  
  Competitive Local
  Exchange Carrier. A company that competes with LECs in the local services
  market.
  
 
 
  
  co-carrier
  
  
   
  
  
  A relationship
  between a CLEC and an ILEC that affords each company the same access to and
  right on the other’s network and provides access and services on an equal
  basis.
  
 
 
  
  common carrier
  
  
   
  
  
  A government-defined
  group of private companies offering telecommunications services or facilities
  to the general public on a non-discriminatory basis.
  
 



 28 






 


 
  
  conduit
  
  
   
  
  
  A pipe, usually
  made of metal, ceramic or plastic, that protects buried cables.
  
 
 
  
  DS-3
  
  
   
  
  
  A data
  communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 45 Mbps.
  
 
 
  
  dark fiber
  
  
   
  
  
  Fiber optic strands
  that are not connected to transmission equipment.
  
 
 
  
  dedicated lines
  
  
   
  
  
  Telecommunications
  lines reserved for use by particular customers.
  
 
 
  
  dialing parity
  
  
   
  
  
  The ability of a
  competing local or toll service provider to provide telecommunications services
  in such a manner that customers have the ability to route automatically,
  without the use of any access code, their telecommunications to the service
  provider of the customers’ designation.
  
 
 
  
  equal access
  
  
   
  
  
  The basis upon
  which customers of interexchange carriers are able to obtain access to their
  Primary Interexchange Carriers’ (PIC) long distance telephone network by
  dialing “1”, thus eliminating the need to dial additional digits and an
  authorization code to obtain such access.
  
 
 
  
  facilities based carriers
  
  
   
  
  
  Carriers that own
  and operate their own network and equipment.
  
 
 
  
  fiber optics
  
  
   
  
  
  A technology in
  which light is used to transport information from one point to another. Fiber
  optic cables are thin filaments of glass through which light beams are
  transmitted over long distances carrying enormous amounts of data. Modulating
  light on thin strands of glass produces major benefits including high
  bandwidth, relatively low cost, low power consumption, small space needs and
  total insensitivity to electromagnetic interference.
  
 
 
  
  Gbps
  
  
   
  
  
  Gigabits per
  second. A transmission rate. One gigabit equals 1.024 billion bits of
  information.
  
 
 
  
  ILEC
  
  
   
  
  
  Incumbent Local
  Exchange Carrier. A company historically providing local telephone service.
  Often refers to one of the Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOCs). Often
  referred to as “LEC” (Local Exchange Carrier).
  
 
 
  
  Interconnection
  
  
   
  
  
  Interconnection
  of facilities between or among the networks of carriers, including potential
  physical colocation of one carrier’s equipment in the other carrier’s
  premises to facilitate such interconnection.
  
 
 
  
  InterLATA
  
  
   
  
  
  Telecommunications
  services originating in a LATA and terminating outside of that LATA.
  
 
 
  
  Internet
  
  
   
  
  
  A global
  collection of interconnected computer networks which use a specific
  communications protocol.
  
 
 
  
  IntraLATA
  
  
   
  
  
  Telecommunications
  services originating and terminating in the same LATA.
  
 
 
  
  ISDN
  
  
   
  
  
  Integrated
  Services Digital Network. An information transfer standard for transmitting
  digital voice and data over telephone lines at speeds up to 128 Kbps.
  
 



 29 






 


 
  
  ISPs
  
  
   
  
  
  Internet Service
  Providers. Companies formed to provide access to the Internet to consumers
  and business customers via local networks.
  
 
 
  
  IXC
  
  
   
  
  
  Interexchange
  Carrier. A telecommunications company that provides telecommunications
  services between local exchanges on an interstate or intrastate basis.
  
 
 
  
  Kbps
  
  
   
  
  
  Kilobits per
  second. A transmission rate. One kilobit equals 1,024 bits of information.
  
 
 
  
  LATA
  
  
   
  
  
  Local Access and
  Transport Area. A geographic area composed of contiguous local exchanges, usually
  but not always within a single state. There are approximately 200 LATAs in
  the United States.
  
 
 
  
  leased line
  
  
   
  
  
  An amount of
  telecommunications capacity dedicated to a particular customer along
  predetermined routes.
  
 
 
  
  LEC
  
  
   
  
  
  Local Exchange
  Carrier. A telecommunications company that provides telecommunications
  services in a geographic area. LECs include both ILECs and CLECs.
  
 
 
  
  local exchange
  
  
   
  
  
  A geographic area
  determined by the appropriate state regulatory authority in which calls
  generally are transmitted without toll charges to the calling or called
  party.
  
 
 
  
  local loop
  
  
   
  
  
  A circuit that
  connects an end user to the LEC central office within a LATA.
  
 
 
  
  long distance carriers
  
  
   
  
  
  Long distance
  carriers provide services between local exchanges on an interstate or intrastate
  basis. A long distance carrier may offer services over its own or another
  carrier’s facilities.
  
 
 
  
  Mbps
  
  
   
  
  
  Megabits per
  second. A transmission rate. One megabit equals 1.024 million bits of
  information.
  
 
 
  
  MPLS
  
  
   
  
  
  MultiProtocol
  Label Switching. A standards-approved technology for speeding up
  network traffic flow and making it easier to manage. MPLS involves setting up
  a specific path for a given sequence of packets, identified by a label put in
  each packet, thus saving the time needed for a router or switch to look up
  the address to the next node to forward the packet to.
  
 
 
  
  multiplexing
  
  
   
  
  
  An electronic or
  optical process that combines a large number of lower speed transmission
  lines into one high speed line by splitting the total available bandwidth
  into narrower bands (frequency division), or by allotting a common channel to
  several different transmitting devices, one at a time in sequence (time
  division).
  
 
 
  
  NAP
  
  
   
  
  
  Network Access
  Point. A location at which ISPs exchange traffic with each other.
  
 
 
  
  OC-3
  
  
   
  
  
  A data
  communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 155 bps.
  
 
 
  
  OC-12
  
  
   
  
  
  A data
  communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 622 Mbps.
  
 
 
  
  OC-48
  
  
   
  
  
  A data
  communications circuit capable of transmitting data at approximately 2.45
  Gbps.
  
 



 30 






 


 
  
  peering
  
  
   
  
  
  The commercial
  practice under which ISPs exchange traffic with each other. Although ISPs are
  free to make a private commercial arrangement, there are generally two types
  of peering. With a settlement free peering arrangement the ISPs do not need
  to pay each other for the exchange of traffic. With paid peering, the larger
  ISP receives payment from the smaller ISP to carry the traffic of that
  smaller ISP. Peering occurs at both public and private exchange points.
  
 
 
  
  POP
  
  
   
  
  
  Point of
  Presence. Telecommunications facility where a communications provider locates
  network equipment used to connect customers to its network backbone.
  
 
 
  
  private line
  
  
   
  
  
  A dedicated
  telecommunications connection between end user locations.
  
 
 
  
  PSTN
  
  
   
  
  
  Public Switched
  Telephone Network. That portion of a local exchange company’s network
  available to all users generally on a shared basis (i.e., not dedicated to a
  particular user). Traffic along the public switched network is generally
  switched at the local exchange company’s central offices.
  
 
 
  
  Public Safety Answering
  Point
  
  
   
  
  
  An answering
  location for 911 calls originating in a given area. PSAPs are typically a
  common bureau used to answer emergency calls and dispatch safety agencies
  such as police, fire, emergency medical, etc.
  
 
 
  
  RBOCs
  
  
   
  
  
  Regional Bell Operating
  Companies. Originally, the seven local telephone companies established as a
  result of the AT&T Divestiture. 
  
 
 
  
  reciprocal compensation
  
  
   
  
  
  The compensation
  of a CLEC for termination of a local call by the ILEC on the CLEC’s network,
  which is the same as the compensation that the CLEC pays the ILEC for
  termination of local calls on the ILEC’s network.
  
 
 
  
  resale
  
  
   
  
  
  Resale by a
  provider of telecommunications services (such as a LEC) of such services to
  other providers or carriers on a wholesale or a retail basis.
  
 
 
  
  router
  
  
   
  
  
  Equipment placed
  between networks that relays data to those networks based upon a destination
  address contained in the data packets being routed.
  
 
 
  
  selective router
  
  
   
  
  
  Telephone switch
  or functional equivalent, controlled by the relevant local exchange carrier
  (LEC), which determines the PSAP to which a 911 call should be delivered
  based on the location of the 911 caller.
  
 
 
  
  SONET
  
  
   
  
  
  Synchronous
  Optical Network. An electronics and network architecture for variable
  bandwidth products which enables transmission of voice, data and video
  (multimedia) at very high speeds. SONET ring architecture provides for
  virtually instantaneous restoration of service in the event of a fiber cut or
  equipment failure by automatically rerouting traffic in the opposite
  direction around the ring.
  
 



 31 






 


 
  
  special access services
  
  
   
  
  
  The lease of
  private, dedicated telecommunications lines or “circuits” along the network
  of a local exchange company or a CAP, which lines or circuits run to or from
  the long distance carrier POPs. Examples of special access services are
  telecommunications lines running between POPs of a single long distance
  carrier, from one long distance carrier POP to the POP of another long
  distance carrier or from an end user to a long distance carrier POP.
  
 
 
  
  streaming
  
  
   
  
  
  Streaming is the
  delivery of media, such as movies and live presentations, over a network in
  real time. A computer (a streaming server) sends the media to another
  computer (a client computer), which plays the media as it is delivered.
  
 
 
  
  switch
  
  
   
  
  
  A device that
  selects the paths or circuits to be used for transmission of information and
  establishes a connection. Switching is the process of interconnecting
  circuits to form a transmission path between users and it also captures
  information for billing purposes.
  
 
 
  
  Tbps
  
  
   
  
  
  Terabits per
  second. A transmission rate. One terabit equals 1.024 trillion bits of
  information.
  
 
 
  
  T-1
  
  
   
  
  
  A data
  communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 1.544 Mbps.
  
 
 
  
  unbundled
  
  
   
  
  
  Services,
  programs, software and training sold separately from the hardware.
  
 
 
  
  unbundled access
  
  
   
  
  
  Access to
  unbundled elements of a telecommunications services provider’s network
  including network facilities, equipment, features, functions and
  capabilities, at any technically feasible point within such network.
  
 
 
  
  VoIP
  
  
   
  
  
  Voice over
  Internet Protocol
  
 
 
  
  VPC
  
  
   
  
  
  VoIP Positioning
  Center. An entity that maintains an end user location database and manages
  the technology including query keys and routing number pools used to deliver
  911 calls to the correct PSAP for emergency handling.
  
 
 
  
  web site
  
  
   
  
  
  A server
  connected to the Internet from which Internet users can obtain information.
  
 
 
  
  wireless
  
  
   
  
  
  A communications
  system that operates without wires. Cellular service is an example.
  
 
 
  
  world wide web or web
  
  
   
  
  
  A collection of
  computer systems supporting a communications protocol that permits multimedia
  presentation of information over the Internet.
  
 
 
  
  xDSL
  
  
   
  
  
  A term referring to a
  variety of new Digital Subscriber Line technologies. Some of these new
  varieties are asymmetric with different data rates in the downstream and
  upstream directions. Others are symmetric. Downstream speeds range from 384
  Kbps (or “SDSL”) to 1.5 to 8 Mbps (“ADSL”).
  
 


 


 32










Directors and
Executive Officers

Set
forth below is information as of February 28, 2007, about our directors
and our executive officers. Our executive officers have been determined in
accordance with the rules of the SEC.




 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Walter Scott, Jr.(1)
  
  
   
  
  
  75
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman
  of the Board
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  James Q. Crowe(1)
  
  
   
  
  
  57
  
  
   
  
  
  Chief
  Executive Officer and Director
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Kevin J. O’Hara
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  President
  and Chief Operating Officer
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Charles C.
  Miller, III
  
  
   
  
  
  54
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice
  Chairman and Executive Vice President
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Thomas C. Stortz
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Sunit S. Patel
  
  
   
  
  
  45
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Sureel A. Choksi
  
  
   
  
  
  34
  
  
   
  
  
  President Wholesale Markets Group of Level 3
  Communications, LLC
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Brady Rafuse
  
  
   
  
  
  43
  
  
   
  
  
  President Content Markets Group of Level 3
  Communications, LLC and President and CEO of Europe Operations
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Eric J. Mortensen
  
  
   
  
  
  48
  
  
   
  
  
  Senior
  Vice President and Controller
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Admiral James O.
  Ellis, Jr.(4)
  
  
   
  
  
  59
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Richard R.
  Jaros(3)
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Robert E.
  Julian(2)
  
  
   
  
  
  67
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Arun Netravali(3)
  
  
   
  
  
  60
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  John T.
  Reed(2)(4)
  
  
   
  
  
  63
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Michael B.
  Yanney(1)(3)(4)
  
  
   
  
  
  73
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Dr. Albert C.
  Yates(2)
  
  
   
  
  
  65
  
  
   
  
  
  Director
  
  
   
  
 






(1)          Member
of Executive Committee

(2)          Member
of Audit Committee

(3)          Member
of Compensation Committee

(4)          Member
of Nominating and Governance Committee

Other Management

Set
forth below is information as of February 28, 2007, about the following
members of senior management of Level 3 Communications, LLC, except as otherwise
noted.




 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Raouf F. Abdel
  
  
   
  
  
  39
  
  
   
  
  
  President
  Business Markets Group
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  John Neil Hobbs
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  President
  Global Network Services
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Lynn E. Refer
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  President
  Metro Network Services
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  John F.
  Waters, Jr.
  
  
   
  
  
  42
  
  
   
  
  
  Executive
  Vice President, Chief Technology Officer
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Donald H. Gips
  
  
   
  
  
  47
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  Vice President
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Kevin T. Hart
  
  
   
  
  
  40
  
  
   
  
  
  Group
  Vice President, Chief Information Officer
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Joseph M.
  Howell, III
  
  
   
  
  
  60
  
  
   
  
  
  Group Vice President
  
  
   
  
 




 

Walter Scott, Jr. has been the Chairman of the
Board of the Company since September 1979, and a director of the Company
since April 1964. Mr. Scott has been Chairman Emeritus of Peter
Kiewit Sons’, Inc. (“PKS”) since the split-off in 1998. Mr. Scott is
also a director of PKS, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Company, and Valmont Industries, Inc. and Chairman of the Board
of Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc. (“Commonwealth Telephone”). Mr. Scott
is also the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.


 33 






James Q. Crowe has been the Chief Executive Officer of
the Company since August 1997, and a director of the Company since June 1993.
Mr. Crowe was also President of the Company until February 2000. Mr. Crowe
was President and Chief Executive Officer of MFS Communications Company, Inc.
(“MFS”) from June 1993 to June 1997. Mr. Crowe also served as
Chairman of the Board of WorldCom from January 1997 until July 1997,
and as Chairman of the Board of MFS from 1992 through 1996. Mr. Crowe is
presently a director of Commonwealth Telephone. Mr. Crowe is also a member
of the Executive Committee.

Kevin J. O’Hara has been President of the Company
since July 2000 and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since March 1998.
Mr. O’Hara was also Executive Vice President of the Company from August 1997
until July 2000. Prior to that, Mr. O’Hara served as President and
Chief Executive Officer of MFS Global Network Services, Inc. from 1995 to
1997, and as Senior Vice President of MFS and President of MFS Development, Inc.
from October 1992 to August 1995. From 1990 to 1992, he was a Vice
President of MFS Telecom, Inc. (“MFS Telecom”).

Charles C. Miller, III has been Vice Chairman and
Executive Vice President of the Company since February 15, 2001. Mr. Miller
was also a director from February 15, 2001 until May 18, 2004. Prior
to that, Mr. Miller was President of Bellsouth International, a subsidiary
of Bellsouth Corporation from 1995 until December 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Miller
held various senior level officer and management position at BellSouth from
1987 until 1995.

Thomas C. Stortz has been Executive Vice President,
Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since February 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Stortz
was Group Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company from February 2000
to February 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Stortz served as Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company from September 1998
to February 1, 2000. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and
General Counsel of Peter Kiewit Sons’, Inc. and Kiewit Construction Group, Inc.
from April 1991 to September 1998. He has served as a director of
Peter Kiewit Sons’, Inc.

Sunit S. Patel has been Chief Financial Officer since May 2003
and a Group Vice President of the Company since March 13, 2003. Prior to
that, Mr. Patel was Chief Financial Officer of Looking Glass Networks, Inc.,
a provider of metropolitan fiber optic networks, from April 2000 until March 2003.
Mr. Patel was Treasurer of WorldCom Inc. and MCIWorldcom Inc.,
each long distance telephone services providers from 1997 to March 2000.
From 1994 to 1997, Mr. Patel was Treasurer of MFS Communications
Company Inc., a competitive local exchange carrier.

Sureel A. Choksi has been President Wholesale Markets
Group since August 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi was Executive Vice
President of Switched Services from January 2006 to August 2006.
Prior to this role, Mr. Choksi was Executive Vice President of Services
from November 2004 to January 2006, responsible for developing and managing
Level 3’s communications services. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi was Executive
Vice President Softswitch Services from January 2004 and Group Vice
President Transport and Infrastructure from May 2003 until January 2004.
Mr. Choksi was a Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company from July 2000 to May 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi
was Group Vice President Corporate Development and Treasurer of the Company
from February 2000 until August 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi
served as Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from January 1999 to
February 1, 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi was a Director of Finance
at the Company from 1997 to 1998, an Associate at TeleSoft Management, LLC in
1997 and an Analyst at Gleacher & Company from 1995 to 1997.

Brady Rafuse has been President Content Markets Group
since August 2006 and President and CEO of our European operations since January 2006.
Prior to this role, Mr. Rafuse was Group Vice President and President of
our European operations from August 2001 to January 2006 and Senior
Vice President of European Sales and Marketing from December 2000 to August 2001.
Prior to that, Mr. Rafuse served as Head of Commercial Operations for
Concert, a joint venture between AT&T and British Telecom, from 


 34 






September 1999 to December 2000,
and in a variety of positions with British Telecom from 1987 until December 2000.
His last position was as General Manager, Global Energy Sector which he held
from August 1998 to September 1999 and prior to that he was Deputy
General Manager, Banking Sector from April 1997 to August 1998.

Eric J. Mortensen has been Senior Vice President and
Controller of the Company since 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Mortensen was
Vice President and Controller of the Company from 1999 to 2003 and was the
Controller of the Company from 1997 to 1999. Prior to that, Mr. Mortensen
was Controller and Assistant Controller of Kiewit Diversified Group for more
than five years.

Admiral James O. Ellis, Jr. U.S. Navy (ret.) has
been a director of the Company since March 2005. Effective May 18,
2005, Admiral Ellis became the president and chief executive officer of the
Institute of Nuclear Power Operations or INPO, a nonprofit corporation established
by the nuclear utility industry in 1979 to promote the highest levels of safety
and reliability in the operation of nuclear electric generating plants. Admiral
Ellis most recently served as Commander, U.S. Strategic Command in Omaha,
Nebraska, before retiring in July 2004 after 35 years of service in
the U.S. Navy, as Commander of the Strategic Command. In his Naval career, he
held numerous commands. A graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, he also holds
M.S. degrees in Aerospace Engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology
and in Aeronautical Systems from the University of West Florida. He served as a
Naval aviator and was a graduate of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School. Admiral
Ellis is also a member of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin
Corporation, Inmarsat PLC and The Burlington Capital Group, LLC. Admiral Ellis
is a member of the Nominating and Governance committee.

Richard R. Jaros has been a director of the Company
since June 1993 and served as President of the Company from 1996 to 1997. Mr. Jaros
served as Executive Vice President of the Company from 1993 to 1996 and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company from 1995 to 1996. He also served as President
and Chief Operating Officer of CalEnergy from 1992 to 1993, and is presently a
director of Commonwealth Telephone. Mr. Jaros is a member of the
Compensation Committee.

Robert E. Julian has been a director of the Company
since March 1998. From 1992 to 1995 Mr. Julian served as Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Julian is
the Chairman of the Audit Committee.

Arun Netravali has been a director of the Company
since April 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Netravali was Chief Scientist
for Lucent Technologies, working with academic and investment communities to identify
and implement important new networking technologies from January 2002 to April 2003.
Prior to that position, Mr. Netravali was President of Bell Labs as well
as Lucent’s Chief Technology Officer and Chief Network Architect from June 1999
to January 2002. Bell Labs serves as the research and development
organization for Lucent Technologies. Mr. Netravali is a director of Agere
Systems Inc. Mr. Netravali is a member of the Compensation Committee.

John T. Reed has been a director of the Company since March 2003.
Mr. Reed is also a Director of and Chairman of the Audit Committee of
First National Bank of Omaha. Mr. Reed is also Chairman of the Board of
Alegent Health, a health care system headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska and a
member of the Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Father Flanagan’s
Boys’ Home located in Boys Town, Nebraska. Mr. Reed was Chairman of HMG
Properties, the real estate investment banking joint venture of McCarthy Group, Inc.
from 2000 until February 2005. Prior to that, he was Chairman of McCarthy &
Co., the investment banking affiliate of McCarthy Group. Prior to joining
McCarthy Group in 1997, Mr. Reed spent 32 years with Arthur Andersen
LLP. Mr. Reed is the Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee
and a member of the Audit Committee.

Michael B. Yanney has been a director of the Company
since March 1998. He has served as Chairman of the Board of The Burlington
Capital Group, LLC (formerly known as America First Companies L.L.C.) 


 35 






for more than the last
five years. Mr. Yanney also served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of The Burlington Capital Group, LLC. Mr. Yanney is the Chairman
of the Compensation Committee and a member of the Executive Committee and the
Nominating and Governance Committee.

Dr. Albert C. Yates has been a director of the
Company since March 2005. Dr. Yates retired after 12 years as
president of Colorado State University in Fort Collins, Colorado in June 2003.
He was also a chancellor of the Colorado State University System until October 2003,
and is a former member of the board of the Federal Reserve Board of Kansas
City-Denver Branch and the board of directors of First Interstate Bank and
Molson Coors Brewing Company. He currently serves as a director of Centennial
Bank Holdings, Inc. and StarTek, Inc. Dr. Yates is a member of
the Audit Committee.

Raouf F. Abdel has been President Business Markets
Group since February 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Abdel was Group Vice
President of Integration and Development Services from March 2006 to February 2007.
Prior to those roles, Mr. Abdel was Senior Vice President of Integration and
Development Services from November 2005 to March 2006, responsible for managing
Level 3’s integration and systems and process development. Prior to that, Mr.
Abdel was Senior Vice President of Product Development from September 2003 to
November 2005, responsible for developing and managing Level 3 product
development activities. Prior to that, Mr. Abdel was Senior Vice President of
M&A Integration from March 2002 to September 2003, responsible for
managing the execution of Level 3’s integration activities. From July 2000
until March 2002, Mr. Abdel was Senior Vice President of Network
Deployment, and from September 1999 until July 2000, Mr. Abdel
was Vice President of Colocation Services. Mr. Abdel joined Level 3
in February 1998 as Senior Director of Construction.

John Neil Hobbs has been President Global Network
Services since August 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Hobbs was Executive
Vice President Sales and Marketing from January 2006 to August 2006.
Prior to that, Mr. Hobbs was Group Vice President Global Sales from September 2000
to January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Hobbs was President, Global
Accounts for Concert, a joint venture between AT&T and British Telecom from
July 1999 until September 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Hobbs was
Director Transition and Implementation for the formation of Concert
representing British Telecom from June 1998 until July 1999. From April 1997
until June 1998, Mr. Hobbs was British Telecom’s General Manager for
Global Sales & Service and from April 1994 until April 1997,
Mr. Hobbs was British Telecom’s General Manager for Corporate Clients.

Lynn E. Refer has been President Metro Network
Services since August 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Refer was Chief
Executive Officer of Looking Glass Networks, Inc., a provider of
metropolitan optical networking services, from April 2000 to August 2006.
Prior to Looking Glass Networks, Mr. Refer was Senior Vice President of
Network Planning and Engineering at MCIWorldCom from April 1999 to March 2000.
From April 1997 until March 1999, Mr. Refer was Vice President
and then Senior Vice President of Planning, Development and Business Analysis
at WorldCom and MCIWorldCom. Mr. Refer also held Vice President and Senior
Vice President positions at MFS Communications from 1993 to 1996.

John F. Waters, Jr. has been Executive Vice
President, Chief Technology Officer since January 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Waters
was Group Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of the Company from February 2000
to January 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Waters was Vice President,
Engineering of the Company from November 1997 until February 1, 2000.
Prior to that, Mr. Waters was an executive staff member of MCI
Communications from 1994 to November 1997.

Donald H. Gips has been Group Vice President Corporate
Strategy since January 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Gips was Group Vice
President, Sales and Marketing of the Company from February 2000. Prior to
that, Mr. Gips served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development from
November 1998 to February 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Gips served
in the White House as Chief Domestic Policy Advisor to Vice President Gore from
April 1997 to April 1998. Before working at the White House, Mr. Gips
was at the Federal Communications Commission as the International Bureau Chief
and Director of Strategic 


 36 






Policy from January 1994
to April 1997. Prior to his government service, Mr. Gips was a
management consultant at McKinsey and Company.

Kevin T. Hart has been Group Vice President Global
Systems Development and Chief Information Officer since January 2005.
Prior to that, Mr. Hart was Vice President of Telecommunications, Media &
Entertainment at Capgemini (formerly Ernst & Young), a management
consulting firms in Dallas, Texas, for over nine years. In that role, he
was responsible for the overall growth and direction of the organization’s
Communications Operations Support Systems, Billing/Business Support Systems and
the Network Management Systems service offerings and delivery. Prior to joining
Capgemini’s management consulting practice, he held the positions of Director
of Strategic Planning at International Paper and Manager of Operations at SBC
Communications.

Joseph M. Howell, III has been Group Vice
President Corporate Marketing since February 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Howell
served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Marketing from October 1997 to February 1,
2000. Prior to that, Mr. Howell was a Senior Vice President of
MFS/WorldCom from 1993 to 1997.

Until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2008, the
Board will be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II
and Class III. At our 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the term of
office of the following directors will expire: Walter Scott, Jr., James Q.
Crowe, Robert E. Julian, Arun Netravali, John T. Reed and Michael B. Yanney. The
term of office of the following individuals will expire at our 2008 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders: Admiral James O. Ellis, Jr., Richard R. Jaros and
Dr. Albert C. Yates. At each annual meeting of stockholders, successors to
the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting will be
elected for a one-year term. Our officers are elected annually to serve until
each successor is elected and qualified or until his or her death, resignation
or removal.

We believe that the
members of the Audit Committee are independent within the meaning of the
listing standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. The Board has
determined that Mr. Robert E. Julian, Chairman of the Audit Committee,
qualifies as a “financial expert” as defined by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The Board considered Mr. Julian’s credentials and financial
background and found that he was qualified to serve as the “financial expert.”

Code of Ethics

We have adopted a code of
ethics that complies with the standards mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002. The complete code of ethics is available on our website at www.level3.com. At any time that the code
of ethics is not available on our website, we will provide a copy upon written
request made to Investor Relations, Level 3 Communications, Inc., 1025
Eldorado Blvd., Broomfield, Colorado 80021. We caution you that any information
that is included in our website is not part of this 10-K. If we amend the
code of ethics, or grant any waiver from a provision of the code of ethics that
applies to our executive officers or directors, we will publicly disclose such
amendment or waiver as required by applicable law, including by posting such
amendment or waiver on our website at www.level3.com
or by filing a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission
or SEC.

SEC Filings

Our Form 10-K,
along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC
are publicly available free of charge on the investor relations section of
our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such materials
with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We caution you that the information on our
website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnishes to,
the SEC.


 37 






Section 16(a)—Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance

To our knowledge, no
person that was a director, executive officer or beneficial owner of more than
10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock failed to timely file all
reports required under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.

Employees

As of December 31,
2006, and after giving effect to the acquisition of Broadwing, we had
approximately 7,400 total employees. We believe that our success depends in
large part on our ability to attract and retain substantial numbers of
qualified employees.

Item 1A.                RISK
FACTORS

Forward Looking
Statements

We, or our representatives, from time to time may make
or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in
writing, including without limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 10-K,
our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, information contained in other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other
public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to
time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences with
investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences.
Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and
conferences may include forward-looking statements. We use words like “expects,”
“anticipates” or “believes” to identify forward-looking statements.

We wish to ensure that all
forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary
statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of
the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their
entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following discussion of
certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those projected in such forward-looking statements. We caution the
reader that this list of important factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in
a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We
cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of all
such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or
combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from
those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking
statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results.
Further, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements
after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or
changes in our expectations.

Risks Related to Our Businesses

Communications Group

Our financial condition and growth depends upon the
successful integration of our acquired businesses. We may not be able to
efficiently and effectively integrate recently acquired operations, and thus
may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions.

Level 3 and Broadwing entered into the Broadwing
merger with the expectation that our acquisition of Broadwing will result in
benefits to each company. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Broadwing
merger will depend in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an
efficient and effective manner.

In addition, since December 2005,
we have acquired WilTel Communications Group, LLC, Progress Telecom, LLC, ICG
Communications, Inc., TelCove, Inc., Looking Glass Networks Holding Co., Inc. and



 38 






the
CDN services business of SAVVIS and from time to time we may acquire additional
businesses in accordance with our business strategy. The integration of our
acquired businesses and any future businesses that we may acquire involves a
number of risks, including, but not limited to:

·       demands
on management related to the significant increase in size after the
acquisition;

·       the
disruption of ongoing business and the diversion of management’s attention from
the management of daily operations to the integration of operations;

·       loss
of key personnel of the recently acquired operations;

·       loss
of customers post-integration;

·       higher
integration costs than anticipated;

·       failure
to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings;

·       difficulties
in the assimilation and retention of highly qualified, experienced employees;

·       resistance
to the assimilation of different cultures and practices, and complexity in the
assimilation of personnel and operations which are broadly geographically
dispersed; and

·       unanticipated
impediments in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting
systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in
maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over
financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
procedures and policies.

If we cannot efficiently and effectively integrate
acquired businesses or operations, we would be likely to experience material
negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of
operations. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations
will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities
for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded
geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and
excess costs to fully realize the expected synergies. Because of difficulties
in combining geographically distant operations, we may not be able to achieve
the financial strength and growth we anticipate from the acquisitions.

We cannot be certain that
we will realize our anticipated benefits from our recent acquisitions, or that
we will be able to efficiently and effectively integrate the recently acquired
operations as planned. If we fail to integrate the recently acquired operations
efficiently or fail to realize the benefits we anticipate, it could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations and future prospects.

We need to continue
to increase the volume of traffic on our network to become profitable.

We must continue to
increase the volume of Internet, data, voice and video transmissions on our
communications network at acceptable prices in order to realize our targets for
anticipated sales and revenue growth, cash flow, operating efficiencies and the
cost benefits of our network. If we do not maintain or improve our current
relationship with existing customers and develop new large volume and enterprise
customers, we may not be able to substantially increase traffic on our network,
which would adversely affect our ability to become profitable.

Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others
could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services or
subject us to expensive intellectual property litigation.

If
technology that is necessary for us to provide our services was determined by a
court to infringe a patent held by another entity that is unwilling to grant us
a license on terms acceptable to us, we could be precluded by court order from
using such technology and would likely be required to pay a significant 


 39 






monetary damages award to the patent-holder. The
successful enforcement of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license
for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the
technology and offering services incorporating the technology. In the event
that a claim of infringement was brought against us based on the use or sale of
our technology or against any of our customers based on their use of our
technology for which we would be obligated to indemnify, we could be subject to
litigation to determine whether such use or sale of the relevant technology is,
in fact, infringing. This litigation would be expensive and distracting,
regardless of the outcome of the suit. 

While
our own extensive patent portfolio may deter other telecommunications providers
from bringing such actions, patent infringement claims are increasingly being
asserted by patent holding companies, whose sole business model is to enforce
patents against operators, such as Level 3, for monetary gain. Because such
patent holding companies do not provide services or use technology, the
assertion of our own patents by way of counter-claim would be largely
ineffective. We have already been the subject of time-consuming and expensive
patent litigation brought by certain patent holding companies and we can
reasonably expect that we will face further claims in the future.

Our
business requires the continued development of effective business support
systems to implement customer orders and to provide and bill for services.

Our business
depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support
systems. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and
expertise and support from third-party vendors. Business support systems are
needed for:

·       implementing
customer orders for services;

·       provisioning,
installing and delivering these services; and

·       monthly
billing for these services.

Because our business
provides for continued rapid growth in the number of customers that we serve
and the volume of services offered, there is a need to continue to develop our
business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service
rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective business support
systems could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business
plans and meet our financial goals and objectives.

Our revenue is
concentrated in a limited number of customers.

A significant portion of our communications revenue is
concentrated among a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31,
2006, our top ten customers represented approximately 54% of our consolidated
total revenue. Revenue from our largest customer, AT&T Inc. and its
subsidiaries, including SBC Communications, BellSouth and Cingular, (assuming
those subsidiaries were wholly owned by AT&T for all of 2006), represented
approximately 32.4% of our consolidated total revenue for 2006. The next
largest customer accounted for approximately 6.6% of our consolidated total
revenue and most of the remaining top ten customers each account for 2% or less
of our consolidated total revenue. If we lost one or more of these major customers,
or if one or more major customers significantly decreased orders for our
services, our business would be materially and adversely affected.

In connection with the
acquisition of WilTel in December 2005, we acquired a large customer
contract between WilTel and SBC Communications, a subsidiary of AT&T. We
expect that the revenue generated under this contract will continue to decline
over time as SBC Communications migrates its traffic from our network to the
merged SBC and AT&T Communications network that SBC Communications acquired
from the former AT&T.


 40 






We may lose customers if we experience system failures
that significantly disrupt the availability and quality of the services that we
provide.

Our operations depend on our ability to avoid and
mitigate any interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers.
Interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could
undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it
more difficult to attract new ones. In addition, because many of our services
are critical to the businesses of many of our customers, any significant
interruption in service could result in lost profits or other loss to
customers. Although we attempt to disclaim liability in our service agreements,
a court might not enforce a limitation on liability, which could expose us to
financial loss. In addition, we often provide our customers with guaranteed
service level commitments. If we are unable to meet these guaranteed service
level commitments as a result of service interruptions, we may be obligated to
provide credits, generally in the form of free service for a short period of
time, to our customers, which could negatively affect our operating results.

The failure of any equipment
or facility on our network, including the network operations control center and
network data storage locations, could result in the interruption of customer
service until necessary repairs are effected or replacement equipment is
installed. Network failures, delays and errors could also result from natural
disasters, terrorist acts, power losses, security breaches and computer
viruses. These failures, faults or errors could cause delays, service
interruptions, expose us to customer liability or require expensive
modifications that could significantly hurt our business.

There is no guarantee that we will be successful in
combining our existing service offering with our recently acquired content
distribution services.

As we believe that one of the
largest sources of future incremental demand for our communications services
will be derived from customers that are seeking to distribute their feature
rich content or video over the Internet, we purchased the content distribution
network or CDN assets of SAVVIS, Inc. in January 2007. As a result of
this acquisition, we now need to combine this CDN service offering with our
existing communications services—including high speed Internet access,
transport and colocation services—to provide a single source, end-to-end
content distribution solution. Although we have sold high speed Internet
access, transport and colocation services since the late 1990’s, we have only
been selling our CDN services since the completion of the acquisition of the
SAVVIS assets in January 2007. As a result, there are many difficulties
that we may encounter, including customer acceptance, intellectual property
matters, technological issues, developmental constraints and other problems
that we may not anticipate. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in
generating significant revenues from our CDN service offering.

Rapid technological
changes can lead to further competition.

The communications
industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. In
addition, the introduction of new services or technologies, as well as the
further development of existing services and technologies may reduce the cost
or increase the supply of certain services similar to those that we provide. As
a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to
the communications industry. These new entrants may not be burdened by an
installed base of outdated equipment. Our future success depends, in part, on
our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological
changes. Technological changes and the resulting competition could have a
material adverse effect on our business.


 41










Failure to complete development, testing and
introduction of new services, including VoIP services, could affect our ability
to compete in the industry.

We continuously develop,
test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our
communications network. These new services are intended to allow us to address
new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional
customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the
successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of
existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the
success of these upgrades may be dependent on the conclusion of contract
negotiations with vendors and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely
manner. In addition, new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our
customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our
customers, we may terminate those service offerings and be required to impair
any assets or information technology used to develop or offer those services.
If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of
new services in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely
affected.

During our communications business operating history,
we have generated substantial losses, which we expect to continue.

The development of our communications business
required, and may continue to require, significant expenditures. These
expenditures could result in substantial negative cash flow from operating
activities and substantial net losses for the near future. For the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we incurred losses
from continuing operations of approximately $790 million and $707 million,
respectively. We expect to continue to experience losses, and may not be able
to achieve or sustain operating profitability in the future. Continued
operating losses could limit our ability to obtain the cash needed to expand
our network, make interest and principal payments on our debt or fund other
business needs.

We will need to
continue to expand and adapt our network in order to remain competitive, which
may require significant additional funding. During 2005, we deployed a new
generation of optical transmission equipment. Additional expansion and
adaptations of our communications network’s electronic and software components
will be necessary in order to respond to:

·       growing
number of customers;

·       the
development and launching of new services;

·       increased
demands by customers to transmit larger amounts of data;

·       changes
in customers’ service requirements;

·       technological
advances by competitors; and

·       governmental
regulations.

Future expansion or
adaptation of our network will require substantial additional financial,
operational and managerial resources, which may not be available at the time.
If we are unable to expand or adapt our network to respond to these developments
on a timely basis and at a commercially reasonable cost, our business will be
materially adversely affected.


 42 






The prices we are able to charge for certain of our
communications services have been decreasing in the past and may decrease over
time resulting in lost revenue for which we may be unable to compensate.

Over
the past few years, the prices that we are able to charge for certain of our
communications services have been decreasing. These decreases resulted from
downward market pressure and other factors including:

·      increased
transmission capacity by our competitors and us on our respective existing and
new networks;

·      our
customer agreements containing volume based pricing or other contractually
agreed upon decreases in prices during the term of the agreement; and

·      technological
advances or otherwise.

As our prices for communications
services decrease for whatever reason, if we are unable to increase traffic
volume through additional services from which we can derive additional revenue
or if we are unable to reduce our operating expenses, our operating results
will decline. 

Excluding the effects of
acquisitions, we also continue to expect managed modem related revenue to
continue to decline primarily due to:

·      an
increase in the number of subscribers migrating to broadband services;

·      continued
pricing pressures; and

·      declining
customer obligations under existing contractual arrangements.

We may be liable
for the material that content providers distribute over our network.

The law relating to the liability
of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through
their networks is still unsettled. We may become subject to legal claims
relating to the content disseminated on our network. For example, lawsuits
may be brought against us claiming that material on our network on which one of
our customers relied was inaccurate. Claims could also involve matters
such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement. In
addition, there are other issues such as online gambling where the legal issues
remain unclear. Content providers operating private networks have been sued in
the past, sometimes successfully, based on the content of material. If we
need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required
to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be
negatively affected.

Because our VoIP services are relatively new services
there is no guarantee that these services will gain broad market acceptance.

Although we have sold Softswitch
based services since the late 1990’s, we have only been selling our Voice over
Internet Protocol (or VoIP) services for a limited period of time. As a result,
there are many difficulties that we may encounter, including regulatory
hurdles, technological issues, intellectual property matters, developmental
constraints and other problems that we may not anticipate. To date, our revenue
from the sale of VoIP services has not been significant relative to our total consolidated
revenues and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in generating
significant VoIP revenues.


 43 






The success of our subscriber based VoIP services is
dependent on the growth and public acceptance of VoIP telephony in general.

The success of our
subscriber based VoIP services is dependent upon future demand for VoIP
telephony services in general in the marketplace. In order for the IP telephony
market to continue to grow, several things need to occur, including the
following:

·       Telephone
and cable service providers must continue to invest in the deployment of high
speed broadband networks to residential and commercial customers.

·       VoIP
networks must continue to improve quality of service for real-time
communications, managing effects such as packet jitter, packet loss and unreliable
bandwidth, so that toll-quality service can be provided.

·       VoIP
telephony equipment and services must achieve a similar level of reliability
that users of the public switched telephone network have come to expect from
their telephone service, including emergency calling features and capabilities.

·       VoIP
telephony service providers must offer cost and feature benefits to their
customers that are sufficient to cause the customers to switch away from
traditional telephony service providers.

If any or all of these
factors fail to occur, our VoIP services business may not continue or grow as
expected.

The need to obtain
additional capacity for our network from other providers increases our costs.

We use network resources owned by other companies for
portions of our network both in the United States and in Europe. We obtain the
right to use such network portions, including both telecommunications capacity
and rights to use dark fiber, through operating leases and IRU agreements in
which we pay for the right to use such other companies’ fiber assets and
through agreements in which we exchange the use of portions of our network for
the use of portions of such other companies’ networks. In several of those
agreements, the counter party is responsible for network maintenance and
repair. If a counter party to a lease, IRU or an exchange suffers financial
distress or bankruptcy, we may not be able to enforce our rights to use such
network assets or, even if we could continue to use such network assets, we
could incur material expenses related to maintenance and repair. We could also
incur material expenses if we were required to locate alternative network
assets. We may not be successful in obtaining reasonable alternative network
assets if needed. Failure to obtain usage of alternative network assets, if
necessary, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to carry on
business operations. In addition, some of our agreements with other providers
require the payment of amounts for services whether or not those services are
used.

In the normal course of
business, we need to enter into interconnection agreements with many domestic
and foreign local telephone companies, but we are not always able to do so on
favorable terms. Costs of obtaining local service from other carriers comprise
a significant proportion of the operating expenses of long distance carriers.
Similarly, a large proportion of the costs of providing international service
consists of payments to other carriers. Changes in regulation, particularly the
regulation of local and international telecommunication carriers, could
indirectly, but significantly, affect our competitive position. These changes
could increase or decrease the costs of providing our services.

We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient
qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could
adversely affect on our business.

We believe that our future success will depend in
large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable,
sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel.
We 


 44 






have experienced
significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the
skills that we are seeking. As a result of this significant competition, we may
experience a shortage of qualified personnel.

Our businesses are managed
by a small number of key executive officers, particularly James Q. Crowe, Chief
Executive Officer, Kevin J. O’Hara, President and Chief Operating Officer and
Charles C. Miller, III, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President. The
loss of any of these key executive officers could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

We must obtain and
maintain permits and rights-of-way to operate our network.

If we are unable, on
acceptable terms and on a timely basis, to obtain and maintain the franchises,
permits and rights-of-way needed to expand and operate our network, our
business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cancellation
or non-renewal of the franchises, permits or rights-of-way that are obtained
could materially adversely affect our business. Our communications operating
subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that, among other things,
challenge the subsidiaries’ use of rights-of-way. The plaintiffs have sought to
have these lawsuits certified as class actions. It is likely that additional
suits challenging use of our rights-of-way will occur and that those plaintiffs
also will seek class certification. The outcome of this litigation may increase
our costs and adversely affect our operating results.

Termination of
relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and costs.

Our business is dependent
on third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics,
transmission electronics and related components that are integrated into our
network. If any of these relationships is terminated or a supplier fails to
provide reliable services or equipment and we are unable to reach suitable
alternative arrangements quickly, we may experience significant additional costs.
If that happens, our business could be materially adversely affected.

Increased industry
capacity and other factors could lead to lower prices for our services.

Additional network
capacity available from our competitors may cause significant decreases in the
prices for the services that we offer. Prices may also decline due to capacity
increases resulting from technological advances and strategic acquisitions.
Increased competition has already led to a decline in rates charged for various
telecommunications services.

Recent acquisitions by AT&T and Verizon will
create a tendency for the ILEC acquirer to favor their wholly owned or fully
integrated interexchange carrier.

We acquire a significant
portion of our access, the connection between our owned network and the
customer premises, from ILECs. With the recent ILEC acquisitions of major
interexhange carriers, the ILECs now compete directly with our business and may
have a tendency to favor themselves and their affiliates to our detriment. It
is not yet clear what effect, if any, will result from the constraints agreed
to by the ILECs to protect independent interexchange carriers against this
discrimination in the procurement of the bottleneck local access circuits. The
ILECs favoring themselves in access could have a material adverse effect on our
ability to obtain and retain customers because access is often necessary in
most cases to connect enterprise customers and carrier customers to our
network. Network access represents a very large portion of our total costs and
if we face less favorable pricing and provisioning, we will be at a competitive
disadvantage versus the ILECs.


 45 






The
opportunity to obtain access from competitive access providers to the ILECs has
been significantly reduced as a result of the AT&T and Verizon mergers.

A principal method of
connecting with our customers is through local transport and last mile circuits
we purchase from the ILEC. Another method is our purchasing such circuits from
competitive access providers like AT&T and MCI. We believe that competitive
access providers are the only entities that exert competitive pricing pressure
on the ILECs. While the likely result of the acquisitions by AT&T and
Verizon is higher prices for special access over time, it is not possible to determine
at this time how adverse the long term effect on us will be.

We are subject to significant regulation that could
change in an adverse manner.

Communications services
are subject to significant regulation at the federal, state, local and
international levels. These regulations affect our business and our existing
and potential competitors. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals
(including approvals relating to acquisitions or financing activities),
completing interconnection agreements with incumbent local exchange carriers or
the enactment of new and adverse regulations or regulatory requirements may
have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, future
legislative, judicial and regulatory agency actions could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

Federal legislation
provides for a significant deregulation of the U.S. telecommunications
industry, including the local exchange, long distance and cable television
industries. This legislation remains subject to judicial review and additional
Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, rulemaking. As a result, we cannot
predict the legislation’s effect on our future operations. Many regulatory
actions are under way or are being contemplated by federal and state authorities
regarding important items. These actions could have a material adverse effect
on our business.

States also often require
prior approvals or notifications for certain transfers of assets, customers or
ownership of certificated carriers and for issuances by certified carriers of
equity or debt.

Canadian law currently does not permit us to offer
services directly in Canada.

Ownership of facilities
that originate or terminate traffic in Canada is currently limited to Canadian
carriers. This restriction hinders our entry into the Canadian market unless
appropriate arrangements can be made to address it.

Potential
regulation of Internet service providers in the United States could adversely
affect our operations.

The FCC has, to date,
treated Internet service providers as enhanced service providers. In addition,
Congress has, to date, not sought to heavily regulate the provision of IP-based
services. Both Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that involve
greater regulation of IP-based service providers. Depending on the content and
scope of any regulations, the imposition of such regulations could have a
material adverse effect on our business and the profitability of our services.

The
communications industry is highly competitive with participants that have
greater resources and a greater number of existing customers.

The
communications industry is highly competitive. Many of our existing and
potential competitors have financial, personnel, marketing and other resources
significantly greater than us. Many of these competitors have the added
competitive advantage of a larger existing customer base. In addition,
significant new competition could arise as a result of:

·       the
consolidation in the industry, led by AT&T and Verizon;

·       allowing
foreign carriers to compete in the U.S. market;


 46 






·       further
technological advances; and

·       further
deregulation and other regulatory initiatives.

If we are unable to
compete successfully, our business could be significantly hurt.

We may be unable to successfully identify, manage and
assimilate future acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances, which
could adversely affect our results of operations.

We continually
evaluate potential investments and strategic opportunities to expand our
network, enhance connectivity and add traffic to our network. In the future, we
may seek additional investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements,
which may expose us to risks such as:

·       the
difficulty of identifying appropriate investments, strategic allies or
opportunities;

·       the
possibility that senior management may be required to spend considerable time
negotiating agreements and monitoring these arrangements;

·       the
possibility that definitive agreements will not be finalized;

·       potential
regulatory issues applicable to the telecommunications business;

·       the
loss or reduction in value of the capital investment;

·       the
inability of management to capitalize on the opportunities presented by these
arrangements; and

·       the
possibility of insolvency of a strategic ally.

There can be no assurance
that we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems
encountered with these investments, strategic alliances or similar
arrangements.

Revenue under our
agreement with SBC Services is expected to continue to decline materially.

As part of our acquisition
of the communications business of WilTel Communications Group, LLC, or WilTel,
we acquired a multi-year contract with SBC Services, Inc. which we refer
to as the SBC Contract Services Agreement. Recently, SBC Services Inc. became a
subsidiary of AT&T Inc. and announced its intention to migrate the
services provided by WilTel to the merged SBC Services, Inc. and AT&T
network. WilTel and SBC amended the SBC Contract Services agreement to run
through 2009 and it provides a remaining gross margin purchase commitment of
$67 million through the end of 2007, and $75 million from January 2008
through the end of 2009. Originating and terminating access charges paid to
local phone companies are passed through to SBC in accordance with a formula
that approximates cost. Additionally, the SBC Master Services Agreement
provides for the payment of $25 million in 2007 from SBC if we meet certain
performance criteria. We expect the revenue generated by the SBC Contract
Services agreement to decline materially in 2007.

Other Operations

Environmental
liabilities from our historical operations could be material.

Environmental liabilities from our historical
operations could be material. Our operations and properties are subject to a
wide variety of laws and regulations relating to environmental protection,
human health and safety. These laws and regulations include those concerning
the use and management of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. We
have made and will continue to make significant expenditures relating to our
environmental compliance obligations. Despite our best efforts, we may not at
all times be in compliance with all of these requirements.


 47 






In connection with certain
historical operations, we have responded to or been notified of potential
environmental liability at approximately 148 properties as of February 15,
2007. We are engaged in addressing or have liquidated 70 of those properties.
Of these: (a) we have formal commitments or other potential future costs
at 15 sites; (b) there are 10 sites with minimal future costs; (c) there
are 11 sites with unknown future costs and (d) there are 34 sites with no
likely future costs. The remaining 78 properties have been dormant for several
years. We could be held liable, jointly or severally, and without regard to
fault, for such investigation and remediation. The discovery of additional
environmental liabilities related to historical operations or changes in
existing environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our
business.

Potential
liabilities and claims arising from coal operations could be significant.

Our coal operations are
subject to extensive laws and regulations that impose stringent operational,
maintenance, financial assurance, environmental compliance, reclamation,
restoration and closure requirements. These requirements include those
governing air and water emissions, waste disposal, worker health and safety,
benefits for current and retired coal miners, and other general permitting and
licensing requirements. Despite our best efforts, we may not at all times be in
compliance with all of these requirements. Liabilities or claims associated
with this non-compliance could require us to incur material costs or suspend
production. Mine reclamation costs that exceed reserves for these matters also
could require us to incur material costs.

General

If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and
covenants in our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of
these agreements, and this could result in an acceleration of payment of funds
that have been borrowed.

If we were unable to
comply with the restrictions and covenants in any of our debt agreements, there
would be a default under the terms of those agreements. As a result, borrowings
under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default
provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these
events occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to make necessary
payments to the lenders or that we would be able to find alternative financing.
Even if we were able to obtain alternative financing, there can be no assurance
that it would be on terms that are acceptable.

We have substantial
debt, which may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage.

Our substantial
debt may have important consequences, including the following:

·       the
ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital,
investments and capital or other expenditures could be impaired or financing
may not be available on acceptable terms;

·       a
substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to make principal and
interest payments on outstanding debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise
be available for operations and future business opportunities;

·       a
substantial decrease in cash flows from operating activities or an increase in
expenses could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements and force
modifications to operations;

·       We
have more debt than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a
competitive disadvantage; and

·       substantial
debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy
generally.


 48 






We had substantial
deficiencies of earnings to cover fixed charges of approximately $722 million
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. We had deficiencies of
earnings to cover fixed charges of $634 million for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2005, $409 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, $681
million for the fiscal year 2003 and $936 million for the fiscal year 2002.

We may not be able to repay our existing debt; failure
to do so or refinance the debt could prevent us from implementing our strategy
and realizing anticipated profits.

If we were unable to refinance our debt or to raise additional
capital on acceptable terms, our ability to operate our business would be
impaired. As of December 31, 2006, not taking into account capital markets
transaction that we engaged in during the first quarter 2007, we had an
aggregate of approximately $7.362 billion of long-term debt on a consolidated
basis and including current maturities, and approximately $374 million of
stockholders’ equity.

Our ability to make
interest and principal payments on our debt and borrow additional funds on
favorable terms depends on the future performance of the business. If we do not
have enough cash flow in the future to make interest or principal payments on
our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a part of our debt or to raise
additional capital. We cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance our
debt or raise additional capital on acceptable terms.

Restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements
limit our ability to conduct our business and could prevent us from obtaining
needed funds in the future.

Our debt and
financing arrangements contain a number of significant limitations that
restrict our ability to, among other things:

·       borrow
additional money or issue guarantees;

·       pay
dividends or other distributions to stockholders;

·       make
investments;

·       create
liens on assets;

·       sell
assets;

·       enter
into sale-leaseback transactions;

·       enter
into transactions with affiliates; and

·       engage in mergers or
consolidations.

If certain transactions occur with respect to our
capital stock, we may be unable to fully utilize our net operating loss
carryforwards to reduce our income taxes.

As of December 31, 2006, we had net operating
loss carryforwards of approximately $7.0 billion for federal income tax
purposes. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock that
result in a cumulative ownership change of more than 50 percentage points by 5-percent
stockholders over a three-year period as determined under rules prescribed
by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable regulations, annual limitations
would be imposed with respect to our ability to utilize our net operating loss
carryforwards and certain current deductions against any taxable income it
achieves in future periods.

We have entered into
transactions over the last three years resulting in significant cumulative
changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Additional transactions that we
enter into as well as transactions by existing 5% stockholders that we do not
participate in could cause us to incur a 50 percentage point ownership change
by 5% stockholders and, if we trigger the above-noted Internal Revenue Code
imposed 


 49 






limitations,
such transactions would prevent us from fully utilizing net operating loss
carryforwards and certain current deductions to reduce income taxes.

The unpredictability
of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common
stock.

Our revenue and
operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a
number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which
may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. The primary factors,
among other things, that may affect our quarterly results include the
following:

·       The
timing of costs associated with our integration activities with respect to our
recently completed acquisitions;

·       demand
for communications services;

·       loss
of customers or the ability to attract new customers;

·       changes
in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;

·       costs
related to acquisitions of technology or businesses;

·       changes
in regulatory rulings; and

·       general
economic conditions as well as those specific to the communications and related
industries.

A delay in generating
revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause
significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. It is
possible that in some future quarters our results may be below analysts and
investors expectations. In these circumstances, the price of our common stock
will likely decrease.

Increased scrutiny of financial disclosure,
particularly in the telecommunications industry in which we operate, could
adversely affect investor confidence, and any restatement of earnings could
increase litigation risks and limit our ability to access the capital markets.

Congress, the SEC, other regulatory authorities and
the media are intensely scrutinizing a number of financial reporting issues and
practices. Although all businesses face uncertainty with respect to how the
U.S. financial disclosure regime may be impacted by this process, particular
attention has been focused recently on the telecommunications industry and
companies’ interpretations of generally accepted accounting principles.

If we were required to
restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had
incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles, that restatement
could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or the trading
price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting has
also resulted in an increase in litigation in the telecommunications industry.
There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not
materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our
securities.

Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war
may adversely affect the financial markets and our business.

Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks
and subsequent events, there has been considerable uncertainty in world
financial markets. The full effect on the financial markets of these events, as
well as concerns about future terrorist attacks, is not yet known. They could,
however, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on terms acceptable
to us, or at all.


 50










There can be no assurance
that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or
U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly affect our
physical facilities or those of our customers. These events could cause consumer
confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the
U.S. and world financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could
materially adversely affect our business.

Our international operations and investments expose us
to risks that could materially adversely affect the business.

We have operations
and investments outside of the United States, as well as rights to undersea
cable capacity extending to other countries, that expose us to risks inherent
in international operations. These include:

·       general economic, social
and political conditions;

·       the difficulty of enforcing
agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;

·       tax rates in some foreign
countries may exceed those in the U.S.;

·       foreign currency exchange
rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and
the value of our international assets and investments;

·       foreign earnings may be
subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange
controls or other restrictions;

·       difficulties and costs of
compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our
investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of
licenses and monetary fines;

·       difficulties in obtaining
licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and

·       changes
in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment.

Additional
issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing
stockholders

We may issue equity in the
future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our
ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to
fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. We may issue shares of
our common stock at prices or for consideration that is greater than or less
than the price at which we are offering our common stock in this offering. To
the extent we issue additional equity securities, your percentage ownership of
our common stock would be reduced.

If a large number of shares of our common stock is
sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our
common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital

We cannot predict what effect,
if any, future issuances by us of our common stock will have on the market
price of our common stock. In addition, shares of our common stock that we
issue in connection with an acquisition, may not be subject to resale
restrictions. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if
certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in
connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their
shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell
these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could
impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock
in the capital markets.


 51 






Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws could
limit the share price and delay a change of management

Our restated
certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it
more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the
approval of our incumbent board of directors. These provisions, among other
things:

·       prohibit stockholder action
by written consent in place of a meeting;

·       limit the right of
stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; limit the right of
stockholders to present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual
meetings of stockholders; and

·       authorize the board of
directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on
the part of stockholders.

In addition, the terms of most of our long term debt
require that upon a “change of control,” as defined in the agreements that
contain the terms and conditions of the long term debt, we make an offer to
purchase the outstanding long term debt at either 100% or 101% of the aggregate
principal amount of that long term debt.

These provisions could
limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares
of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our
common stock to change management. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.

The market price of our common stock has been subject
to volatility and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may
fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors

The market price of
our common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market
price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of
factors, including:

·       the depth and liquidity of
the trading market for our common stock;

·       quarterly variations in
actual or anticipated operating results;

·       changes in estimated
earnings by securities analysts;

·       market conditions in the
communications services industry;

·       announcement and
performance by competitors;

·       regulatory actions; and

·       general economic
conditions.

In addition, in recent
months the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume
fluctuations. Those market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on
the market price or liquidity of our common stock.

ITEM 1B