ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS." 

<A
NAME="da47001_part_i"> 
 
  Part I        

<A
NAME="da47001_item_1._business"> 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS        

        Unless the context otherwise requires, when we use the words "Level 3," "we," "us" or "our company" in
this Form 10-K, we are referring to Level 3 Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries, unless it is clear from the context or expressly stated
that these references are only to Level 3 Communications, Inc. Throughout this Form 10-K we use various industry terms and abbreviations, which we have defined in the
Glossary of Terms at the end of this description of our business.

        Through
our operating subsidiaries, we engage primarily in the communications business. 

        We
are a facilities based provider (that is, a provider that owns or leases a substantial portion of the plant, property and equipment necessary to provide its services) of a broad range
of integrated communications services. We have created our communications network generally by constructing our own assets, but also through a combination of purchasing and leasing other companies and
facilities. Our network is an advanced, international, facilities based communications network. We designed our network to provide communications services, which employ and take advantage of rapidly
improving underlying optical, Internet Protocol, computing and storage technologies. 

         Market and Technology Opportunity.    We believe that ongoing technology advances in both optical and Internet Protocol technologies have
been
revolutionizing the communications industry. We also believe that these advances have, and will continue to, facilitate decreases in unit costs for communications service providers that are able to
most effectively take advantage of these technology advances. Service
providers that can effectively take advantage of technology improvements and reduce unit costs will be able to offer lower prices, which, we believe, will stimulate substantial increases in the demand
for communications services. We believe there are two primary factors that are continuing to drive this market dynamic: 



•Rapidly Improving Technologies.  Over the past few years,
both Internet Protocol or IP and optical based networking technologies have undergone extremely rapid innovation, due, in large part, to market based development of underlying technologies. This rapid
technology innovation has resulted in both an improvement in price performance for optical and Internet Protocol systems, as well as rapid improvement in the functionality and applications supported
by these technologies. For example, these improvements have enabled voice over IP services or VoIP that are challenging traditional telephone network or PSTN services. We believe that this rapid
innovation will continue well into the future across a number of different aspects of the communications marketplace.   
•High Demand Elasticity.  We believe decreases in
communications services costs and prices cause the development of new bandwidth intensive applications, which, over time, result in even more significant increases in bandwidth demand. In addition, we
believe that communications services are direct substitutes for other, existing modes of information distribution from sources such as traditional broadcast entertainment as well as distribution of
software, audio and video content using physical media delivered using motor transportation systems. An example of this dynamic is the use of the Internet for the distribution of video entertainment. 

2




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        We
believe that as communications services improve more rapidly than these alternative content distribution systems, significant demand will be generated from these sources of
information. We also believe that high elasticity of demand from both these new applications and the substitution for existing distribution systems will continue for the foreseeable future. We believe
that while high demand elasticity will be manifested over time, government regulation and communications supply chain inefficiencies may cause realization of demand to be delayed. 


        We
also believe that there are significant implications that result from this market dynamic. These implications include the following: 



•Incorporating Technology Changes.  Given the rapid rate of
improvement in optical and Internet Protocol technologies, communications service providers that are most effective at rapidly deploying new services that take advantage of these technologies will
have an inherent cost and service advantage over companies that are less effective at deploying new services that use these technologies.   
•Controlling Local Facilities.  Given the consolidation in
the number of local access providers—that is, the providers of connections from long distance and backbone networks to traffic aggregation points or end user
locations—communications service providers that have ownership of local and/or metropolitan network facilities as opposed to communications service providers that obtain these facilities
from others will have an inherent cost and service advantage over companies that do not have ownership over these types of assets. 


 Our Communications Business Strategy  

        We are seeking to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the expanded coverage of our communications network as well as the
significant and rapid advancements in optical and Internet Protocol technologies. Key elements of our strategy include: 



•Offer a Broad Range of Communications Services Over Our End-to-End
Network.  We provide a broad range of communications services designed to meet the needs of our customers over our network. 


Our
communications service offerings include: 


•Internet Protocol and data services—including (1) Internet access and IP and Ethernet Virtual Private
Networks and (2) broadband transport services such as wavelengths, dark fiber and private line services (transoceanic, backhaul, intercity, metro and unprotected private line services);  
•content distribution services including caching and downloading, streaming as well as video broadcast services;  
•colocation services; and   
•Softswitch and voice services—including wholesale VoIP component services, enterprise or business voice
services, wholesale voice origination and termination services and managed modem for the dial-up access business. 



The
availability of these services varies by location. 

For
several years we have been developing services that take advantage of the investment that we have made in our network and that generally target large, existing markets for communications services.
We have also expanded our existing markets for communications services through the acquisitions we completed that enabled us to offer services directly to enterprise or business customers. Through
these efforts we have increased significantly our 



3




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents





addressable
market by targeting new customers as well as new voice and data services that take advantage of the geographic coverage and cost advantages of our network. 

With
respect to our wholesale customers, we provide these customers with several options for accessing our intercity network—including our metropolitan networks and colocation facilities.
Our metropolitan networks enable us to connect directly to points of high traffic aggregation. These traffic aggregation facilities are typically locations where our customers wish to interconnect
with our intercity network. Our metropolitan networks allow us to extend our network services to these aggregation points at low costs. With respect to our enterprise customers, we provide these
customers with access to our network either by directly connecting to their location or by serving that location with a connection from another communications services provider. As of
December 31, 2010, we have: 


•approximately 81,000 intercity route miles in North America and Europe, which we expect to ultimately reduce to
approximately 54,000 intercity route miles, connecting 23 countries; and   
•approximately 125 markets having metropolitan fiber networks containing approximately 27,000 route miles in the United
States and Europe. 



We
believe that providing colocation services in facilities directly connected to our network attracts communications intensive customers by allowing us to offer those customers reduced bandwidth
costs, rapid provisioning of additional bandwidth, interconnection with other third party networks and improved network performance. 

Additionally,
our metropolitan networks allow us to compete for certain local communications traffic, which constitutes a significant percentage of the communications market. As of December 31,
2010, we had secured approximately 6.9 million square feet of space for our Gateway and transmission facilities and other technical space and had completed the build-out of
approximately 4.6 million square feet of this space.  



•Provide Efficient and Effective Backbone Services Through An End to End Backbone
Network. Many portions of our originally constructed intercity and metropolitan networks were designed to provide high quality communications services at an efficient cost
structure. Our network and business processes seek to enable us to cost effectively deploy future generations of optical and IP networking components (both fiber and transmission electronics and
optronics) and thereby expand capacity and reduce the unit cost of delivering our services. In addition, our strategy is to maximize the use of open, non-proprietary interfaces in the
design of our network software and hardware. This approach is intended to provide us with the ability to purchase the most cost effective network equipment from multiple vendors and allow us to deploy
new technology more rapidly and effectively.   
•Target Top Communications Global Customers.  With respect
to our top global communications customers, our primary distribution strategy is to use a national, direct sales force. In addition to large wholesale carriers, such as incumbent local exchange
carriers, international carriers also known as PTTs, major Internet service providers or ISPs, broadband cable television operators, wireless providers, major interexchange carriers, voice service
providers and system integrators, these customers also include the U.S. government, very large enterprises and certain other businesses that purchase communications services in a manner that is
consistent with traditional wholesale customers. Providing communications services to many of these businesses is at the core of our strategy.   
•Further Develop Existing Enterprise Customer
Business.  With respect to our enterprise customers that would not be considered among the top global communications customers, our
primary distribution strategy is to use a locally based direct sales force to target business customers, state 

4




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents




governments,
and higher education institutions with high demands for mission critical communications services. We also complement our locally based direct sales force with an inside or call center
based sales force as well as an indirect sales channel of third party agent partners.  



•Develop Market Leading Content Distribution Service
Offerings.  At December 31, 2010, we operated one of the largest Internet Protocol backbones in the world. In other words, we
operate one of the largest networks over which Internet content is transported from content sources to third party owned access networks connected directly to end users. We continue to believe that
one of the largest sources of future incremental demand for communications services will be derived from customers that are seeking to distribute their feature rich content or video online. To meet
the needs of customers driving this growth, we focus on refining our service offerings to provide a full portfolio of services to support content distribution, including high speed IP services,
colocation, content delivery network, or CDN services and video acquisition. We believe that we are the only service provider that offers, owns and operates this portfolio of services on a broad
scale, which provides a unique opportunity to offer customers flexible access, end to end solutions and/or building block services to meet their evolving needs.   
•Expand Metropolitan Network Coverage.  We expect to
selectively extend the current reach of our existing metropolitan networks by opportunistically adding new connections to buildings and other traffic aggregation points from these networks. These
connections will enable us to reach additional potential customers and reduce our costs for the termination of our customers' communications traffic on other carriers' networks.  
•Pursue Acquisition Opportunities.  In evaluating potential
acquisition opportunities, among other criteria, we evaluate the potential acquisition according to the transaction's ability to generate positive cash flow from high credit quality customers. For
these opportunities, we generally look for companies with recurring revenue that comes predominantly from services we already provide, in geographic areas that are already served, with customers that
are consistent with our existing customer base. It is this group of acquisitions that generally also provides significant cost synergy opportunities. 




As
we seek to expand the addressable market for our services, we also evaluate opportunities that would expand the geographic reach of our network and/or our service capabilities. Transactions that
would be included in this category would expand the geographic scope of our network or would provide capabilities for additional services or distribution channels. For these opportunities, we
generally consider whether the targeted company's distribution strategy is consistent with our strategy and whether management believes that the target's current and/or future revenues can be
significantly increased and/or expenses can be significantly reduced as a result of a combination with our operations. Generally these acquisition opportunities will not provide the same level of cost
synergy opportunity that the category of acquisitions described in the paragraph above provide to us.  



•Develop Advanced Operational Processes and Business Support
Systems.  We have developed and continue to develop substantial and scalable operational processes and business support systems
specifically designed to enable us to offer services efficiently to our targeted customers. We believe that over time these systems will reduce our operating costs, give our customers direct control
over some of the services they buy from us and allow us to grow rapidly while minimizing redesign of our business support systems.   
•Attract and Motivate High Quality Employees.  We have
developed programs designed to attract and retain employees with the technical and business skills necessary for our business. These programs include our long term incentive programs. 

5




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Our Strengths  

        We believe that the following strengths will assist us in implementing our strategy: 



•Experienced Management Team.  We have assembled a
management team that we believe is well suited for our business objectives and strategy. Our senior management has substantial experience in leading the development, marketing and sale of
communications services and in managing, designing and constructing metropolitan, intercity and international networks.   
•A Broad Range of Communications Services.  We provide a
broad range of communications services designed to meet the needs of our customers over our network. Our communications service offerings include:  


•Internet Protocol and data services—including (1) Internet access and IP and Ethernet Virtual Private
Networks and (2) broadband transport services such as wavelengths, dark fiber and private line services (transoceanic, backhaul, intercity, metro and unprotected private line services);  
•content distribution services including caching and downloading, streaming as well as video broadcast services;  
•colocation services; and   
•Softswitch and voice services—including wholesale VoIP component services, enterprise or business voice
services, wholesale voice origination and termination services and managed modem for the dial-up access business. 



The
availability of these services varies by location. 

For
several years we have been developing services that take advantage of the investment that we have made in our network and that generally target large, existing markets for communications services.
We have also expanded our existing markets for communications services through our acquisitions that enabled us to offer services directly to enterprise or business customers. Through these efforts we
have increased significantly our addressable market by adding new targeted customers as well as new voice and data services that take advantage of the geographic coverage and cost advantages of our
network.  



•Significant metropolitan network platform.  As of
December 31, 2010, we have metropolitan fiber networks in approximately 125 markets in North America and Europe, which contain approximately 27,000 route miles. Our metropolitan networks enable
us to connect directly to points of high traffic aggregation and customer locations and reduce our costs for the termination of our customers' communications traffic on other carriers' networks.  
•End-to-End Network Platform.  Our
strategy has been and continues to be to deploy network infrastructure in major metropolitan areas and to link these networks with significant intercity and trans-oceanic networks in North America and
Europe. We believe that the integration of our metropolitan and intercity networks with our colocation facilities will expand the scope and reach of our on-net customer coverage,
facilitate the uniform deployment of technological innovations as we manage our future upgrade paths and allow us to grow or scale our service offerings rapidly. We believe that we are the only
international communications service provider with the unique combination of:  


•a substantial intercity network;   
•large fiber count metropolitan networks;   
•substantial colocation facilities; and 


6




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents




•innovative content distribution technology and services.   



•Advanced IP Backbone.  We operate one of the largest
international IP networks or backbones. Our IP services deliver a broad range of IP transit and network interconnection solutions tailored to meet the varied needs of high bandwidth users.  
•Extensive Patent Portfolio.  Our patent portfolio includes
patents covering technologies ranging from data and voice services, to content distribution, to transmission and networking equipment. We have used our patent portfolio in a number of ways. First,
developing or acquiring technologies and receiving the legal right to preclude others from using them may give us a competitive advantage. Second, the breadth and depth of our patent portfolio may
deter others, particularly telecommunications operators, from bringing patent infringement claims against us for fear of counter-claim by us. We will continue to file new patent applications as we
enhance and develop products and services, we will continue to seek opportunities to expand our patent portfolio through strategic acquisitions and licensing, and we will continue to appropriately
enforce our patents against infringement by others.   
•Softswitch based Co-Carrier Network.  Our
experience in operating our Softswitch based co-carrier network is combined with a set of infrastructure and other management experiences, which include extensive local interconnection
with local exchange carriers, experience in scaling a Softswitch based platform, and an ability to provide seamless interconnection to the traditional telephone network or PSTN. We believe that our
extensive co-carrier network and Softswitch infrastructure provides us with a competitive advantage in providing various voice over IP or VoIP services.   
•A More Readily Upgradeable Network Infrastructure.  With
respect to a substantial portion of our network, the network was designed to take advantage of technological innovations, incorporating many of the features that are not present in older communication
networks, and provide us flexibility to take advantage of future developments and innovations. We designed the transmission network to optimize aspects of fiber and optronics simultaneously as a
system to provide an efficient cost structure for the services that we deliver to our customers. As fiber and optical transmission technology changes, we expect to realize new unit cost improvements
by deploying more cost efficient technologies in our network. We believe that our network design will enable us to lower costs and prices while enjoying higher margins than our competitors. 


 Our Communications Services  

 Service Offerings  

        We offer a broad range of communications services, which currently include the following services. All of these services are available
to all of our customers, however their availability varies by location. The following is an overview description of some of the services that we offer.  



•Network and Internet Services.  We offer both wholesale
oriented communications services to enable large scale networks and high speed access to the Internet as well as similar services designed for the enterprise marketplace. Our Network and Internet
Services include the following. 

7










<A
NAME="page_dc47001_1_8"> 




































 
Table of Contents 




•Transport Services.  Transport services include wavelengths
and private lines. These services are available across our metropolitan and intercity fiber network. Wavelength services provide unprotected point-to-point connections of a
fixed amount of bandwidth with Ethernet or SONET interfaces. Wavelength services are available at a range of speeds from 1 Gpbs to 40 Gbps. This service offering targets customers that require
significant amounts of bandwidth, desire more direct control and provide their own network management. Private line services are also point-to-point connections of dedicated
bandwidth but include SONET or SDH protection to provide resiliency to fiber or equipment outages. Private line services are available in a wide range of speeds, including electrical, optical and
Ethernet interfaces. 


Level 3
also provides transport services within our transatlantic cable system connecting North America and Europe as well as via leased bulk capacity on other transoceanic systems.
International Backhaul transport services, interconnecting cable landing stations and the terrestrial North American and European networks, are also available.  

•High Speed Internet Protocol (IP) Service.  Level 3
offers wholesale and content provider customers with high speed access to the Internet over one of the largest international Internet backbones. Built largely on our own intercity and metropolitan
networks in North America and Europe, we provide customers with high performance, reliability and scalability. Access to the Internet is enabled through interconnection among our customers across our
network as well as interconnections with other Internet service provider "peers."   
•Dedicated Internet Access.  Dedicated Internet Access, or
DIA, is Level 3's enterprise focused Internet access product leveraging the same core Internet backbone as our High Speed Internet Protocol Service. Level 3's Dedicated Internet Access
service offers a wide variety of access methods and speeds. The service is available stand-alone or in conjunction with managed services offerings, such as Managed Router where we deploy and manage a
router that is on the customer premise or our network-based Distributed Denial of Service, or DDS, Mitigation, which protects our business customers from Internet based DDS attacks.  
•VPN Services.  Built on our optical transport network, we
offer customers the ability to create private point-to-point, point-to-multipoint, and full-mesh networks based on IP VPN, Virtual Private
LAN Service, or VPLS, Ethernet Virtual Private Line, or EVPL, or MPLS VPN technologies. These services allow service providers, enterprises and government entities to replace multiple networks with a
single, cost-effective solution that simplifies the transmission of voice, video, and data over a single or converged network, while delivering high quality of service and security. These
services are used for service provider and corporate data and voice networks, data center networking, disaster recovery and out-of-region or redundant customer connectivity for
other service providers. VPN services are sold stand-alone or in conjunction with our managed services offerings.   
•Converged Business Network.  Our Converged Business
Network service enables customers to use the bandwidth that they purchase from us for a variety of services. The Converged Business Network service combines a customer's services over a single access
circuit. As a result, we are able to offer service bundles made up of VPN, DIA and Voice services in a cost efficient manner. Converged services are sold stand alone or in conjunction with our managed
services offerings   
•Dark Fiber Service.  Level 3 Intercity Dark Fiber
and Level 3 Metro Dark Fiber provide carriers, service providers, government entities and large enterprises a complete infrastructure when a fiber solution is required based on unique
applications, control or scale requirements. The services include fiber, colocation space in our Gateway and in our 


8




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents





network
facilities, power and physical operations and maintenance of the fiber and associated infrastructure.  



•Managed Modem.  Managed Modem is an outsourced,
turn-key infrastructure solution for the management of dial up access to the public Internet. ISPs comprise a majority of the customer base for Managed Modem and are provided a fully
managed dial up network infrastructure. As part of this service, we arrange for the provision of local network coverage, dedicated local telephone numbers, racks and modems as well as dedicated
connectivity from the customer's location to our Gateway facility.   



•Colocation Service.  We offer high quality, data center
space where customers can locate servers, content storage devices and communications network equipment in a safe and secure technical operating environment. At our colocation sites, we offer
high-speed, reliable connectivity to our network and to other networks, including metro and intercity networks, the traditional telephone network and the Internet.  
•Media Services.  Our primary services that encompass our
Media Services offerings for the capturing and distribution of digital content include the following.   


•Vyvx Services.  We offer various services to provide audio
and video feeds over fiber or satellite for broadcast and production customers. These services vary in capacity provided, frequency of use (that is, may be provided on an occasional or dedicated
basis) and price. Super Bowl XLV® marked the 22nd consecutive year that the NFL used these services, and the seventh year anniversary of the first live broadcast event ever carried
using our high definition (HD) transport service offering. We also offer encoding services to translate the broadcast video feeds we carry for our customers into formats for Internet distribution.  
•CDN Services.  Our content delivery network services
combine our IP network, gateway facilities and patented technology that directs a requestor or end user to the best location or server cluster in our network to retrieve the requested content based on
location and network conditions. Our CDN services provide customers with improved performance, economics, scalability, reliability and reach for their web applications. Our caching and download
services provide efficient http delivery of large files such as video, software, security patches, audio and graphics to mass audiences. Our streaming services can be used to deliver high performance
streams, either live or on-demand, to end users using leading proprietary protocols. Each service set provides a set of flexible features to enable customers to control their content
delivery to ensure quality end-user experience, security, freshness and targeting. We also offer storage solutions enabling customers to upload and store content to our network as part of
an optimized delivery platform. In addition to our delivery services, our patented Intelligent Traffic Management service enables customers to set rules to dynamically route traffic to meet failover
or dual vendor objectives.   
•Media Delivery Services.  We also offer media delivery
services to customers seeking to manage, protect and monetize content delivered over the Internet. Media Delivery Services extend support for online distribution models and operation by providing
customers with means to ingest and digitize live video content and to manage the organization and presentation of both live and on demand video to end users via a content management system.
Additionally, support for content monetization via paid and advertising supported models is provided. Media Delivery Services leverage our Content Delivery Network for the delivery of managed content
to end users. 


9




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•Voice Services.  We offer a broad range of local and long
distance voice services targeted to both enterprise and wholesale customers including VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services and traditional circuit-switch based services. Our Voice services
include the following.  


•VoIP Enhanced Local.  VoIP Enhanced Local is a VoIP service
that enables broadband cable operators, IXCs, voice over IP providers, and other companies operating their own switching infrastructure to launch IP-based local and
long-distance voice services via any broadband connection. The service is also used by enterprises who self-provide their own local voice features and call routing within
premises-based IP PBX equipment. The service includes the essential building blocks required for residential or business voice service such as local phone numbers, local number portability, local and
long distance calling, 911, operator assistance, directory listings, and directory assistance.   
•SIP Trunking ("SIPT").  SIPT is a VoIP-based
local phone service offered to medium and large enterprises as a replacement for traditional fully featured enterprise TDM voice services. SIPT allows customers with an IP PBX to manage calls to and
from the PSTN without having to purchase traditional access lines dedicated to voice. SIPT includes basic local phone service components such as local phone numbers, 911, operator assistance,
directory listings, local and long distance calling. In addition, customers select from a full set of feature packages that provide core call control features such as call forwarding, call waiting and
call transfer, as well as advanced features such as unified messaging and one-number identity.   
•Local Inbound.  Local Inbound service terminates
traditional telephone network originated calls to Internet Protocol termination points. Customers, such as call centers, conferencing providers, voice over IP service providers and enterprises, can
obtain telephone numbers from us or port-in local telephone numbers that the customer already controls. These local calls are then converted to IP and transported over our backbone to a
customer's IP voice application at a customer-selected IP voice end point.   
•Primary Rate Interface ("PRI").  Level 3 offers
traditional enterprise TDM local phone services that can be configured in multiple ways. Enterprise customers typically use PRI services with traditional PBX equipment. PRI services come with
telephone numbers, operator services, directory assistance and directory listing, 911, as well as routing features such as inbound redirect and remote call forwarding. Customers are able to utilize
our PRI services to access long distance and toll free calling as well.   
•Long Distance.  The Long Distance services portfolio
consists of local and long distance transport and termination services offered to both enterprise and wholesale customers. Our wholesale offerings include domestic and international voice termination
services targeted to IXCs, wireless providers, local phone companies, cable companies, resellers and voice over IP providers. Medium and large enterprises also purchase our long distance services for
their corporate calling or outbound contact center needs. All Level 3 long distance services are offered at the customer's option over circuit switch or Softswitch technologies.  
•Toll Free.  The Toll Free services portfolio consists of
wholesale and enterprise services that terminate toll free calls that are originated on the traditional telephone network. These toll free calls are carried over either a circuit switch or Softswitch
network and delivered to customers in Internet Protocol or traditional TDM format. Customers for these services include call centers, conferencing providers, voice over IP providers and enterprises.
Within this portfolio are Advanced Toll Free services that provide contact center customers the ability to define and control call handling and advanced routing between the Level 3 network and
multiple customer contact center locations. Customers may also combine 


10




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents





advanced
routing with network-based Intelligent Voice Response, or IVR, services that drive call routing and handling based on the caller's interaction with the IVR. 





        For
a discussion of certain geographic information regarding our revenue from external customers and long-lived assets and a discussion of financial information and industry
segments, please see the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For a discussion of our communications revenue, please also see
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing later in this Form 10-K. Our management continues to review our existing lines of
business and service offerings to determine how those lines of business and service offerings assist with our focus on the delivery of communications services and meeting our financial objectives.
This exercise takes place in the ordinary course of our business and would also take place with respect to any integration activities. To the extent that certain lines of business or service offerings
are not considered to be compatible with the delivery of communications services or with obtaining our financial objectives, we may exit those lines of business or stop offering those services in part
or in whole. 

 Distribution Strategy  

        Our customers generally include the following.  



•domestic and international carriers;   
•voice service providers, which include calling card companies, conferencing providers, and contact centers that use VoIP
technology to better manage costs and enable advanced applications;   
•wireless providers;   
•large enterprises that purchase communications services in a manner similar to carriers;   
•broadband cable television operators;   
•major ISPs;   
•system integrators;   
•video distribution companies;   
•mega portals;   
•providers of online gaming;   
•software service providers;   
•social networking providers;   
•research and educational consortia;   
•traditional media distribution companies including broadcasters, television networks and sports leagues;  
•the U.S. federal government and its agencies;   
•state and local governments;   
•enterprises that purchase communications services on a regional or local basis;   
•regional services providers; and   
•traditional broadcasters. 

11




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        To
implement our communications services strategy and reach our target customers, we use a combination of a direct sales force, an inside or call center based sales force, and indirect
sales channels of third party agent partners. The specific elements that we use depends upon the nature of the customers that are being targeted. 


        We
also use a direct sales force to target those business customers and other customers that make communications purchasing decisions on a local or regional basis. Smaller opportunities
are serviced by an inside or call center based sales force generally selling pre-defined bundles of services. The customers that we target with this combination are generally those in the
mid-market, which we define as including medium enterprises that are generally outside the Fortune® 1000, small regional service providers, some educational institutions and some state
governments. We also complement our direct and inside sales forces that targets these customers with an indirect sales channel of third party agent partners and from time to time system integrators. 


        We
are seeking to expand our indirect sales channel to include expanded relationships with systems integrators. We have worked with systems integrators to provide services to those
companies, which the system integrator than bundles into the services that it is providing to the ultimate end user customer. We are working with systems integrators to develop a model through which
we will provide services to the customer directly, rather than through the system integrator. We are looking to apply this expanded relationship to both large and mid-market enterprise customers. 

        Our
sales functions are supported by dedicated employees in sales and customer target marketing. These sales functions are also supported by centralized service or product management and
development, general or corporate marketing, network services, engineering, information technology, and corporate functions including legal, finance, strategy and human resources. 

        We
have policies and procedures to review the financial condition of potential and existing customers. We apply these procedures to determine whether collectability of services billed is
probable prior to the time that we begin delivering services to a customer. If the financial condition of an existing customer deteriorates to a point where payment for services is in doubt, we will
not recognize revenue attributable to that customer until we receive cash. Based on these policies and procedures, we believe our exposure to collection risk within the communications business and the
possible effect on our financial statements is limited. We may also experience the effects of the downturn in the economy and specifically the telecommunications industry; however, we believe the
concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is mitigated due to the dispersion of our customer base among geographic areas and remedies provided by terms of contracts and by law. 

        For
the year ended December 31, 2010, our top ten communications customers represented approximately 27% of our total communications revenue. 

        Beginning
in the first quarter of 2010, we modified our revenue disclosure based on the manner in which certain customers are classified within customer-facing groups. In our financial
results, we discuss our Core Network Services revenue in terms of wholesale, large enterprise and federal, mid-market, and European customers.  



•Wholesale includes revenue from international and domestic carriers, cable companies, wireless companies, voice service
providers and the vast majority of the customers that were formerly classified in our content market group.   
•Large enterprise and federal includes Fortune® 300 and other large enterprises that purchase communications
services in a manner similar to carriers, including financial services, healthcare and systems integrators, Federal Government agencies and academic consortia, plus certain large former content
markets group customers. 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•Mid-market includes medium enterprises generally outside the Fortune® 300, regional service
providers, certain academic institutions and some state and local governments.   
•European, which did not change from the 2009 financial presentation includes the largest European consumers of bandwidth,
including the largest European and international carriers, large system integrators, voice service providers, cable operators, Internet service providers, content providers, enterprises, and
government and education sectors. 


For
a discussion of our communications revenue, please also see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing later in this
Form 10-K. 

 Our communications network  

        Our network is an advanced, international, facilities based communications network. Today, we primarily provide services over our own
facilities. At December 31, 2010, our network encompasses: 



•approximately 68,000 intercity route miles in North America, which we expect to reduce to approximately 44,000 intercity
route miles based upon our determinations on whether to retain or eliminate overlapping routes;   
•an intercity network covering approximately 13,000 miles across Europe;   
•metropolitan fiber networks in approximately 125 markets containing approximately 27,000 route miles in the United States
and Europe;   
•approximately 145 markets in service in North American and approximately 45 markets in service in Europe;  
•approximately 6.9 million square feet of Gateway and transmission facilities in North America and Europe; and  
•substantial transoceanic cable system capacity, primarily across the Atlantic ocean. 


        Terrestrial Intercity Networks.    Our approximately 68,000 mile fiber optic intercity network in North America, which we expect will be
reduced to
approximately 44,000 miles, include the following characteristics.  



•Multiple Conduits. In approximately 26,000 miles of our intercity network, we have installed groups of multiple conduits.
We believe that the availability of spare conduits will allow us to deploy future technological innovations in optical networking components as well as providing us with the flexibility to offer
conduit to other entities. 


Initial
installation of optical fiber strands designed to accommodate Dense Wave Division Multiplexing, or DWDM transmission technology. In addition, we believe that the installation of newer optical
fibers will allow a combination of greater wavelengths of light per strand, higher transmission speeds and longer physical spacing between network electronics. We also believe that each new generation
of optical fiber will allow increases in the performance of these network design aspects and will therefore enable lower unit costs.  



•High speed Intercity DWDM equipment providing high quality, reliable and cost effective transmission across our fiber
backbone. We are continually evaluating advancements in technology that will enable us to scale, lower our cost and provide higher speed services over our intercity network. We believe that the market
will continue to move toward Ethernet based services and higher speed interfaces. Through our technology evaluations we believe that we have positioned ourselves to be able to deliver these
capabilities for both our own IP network needs as well as those of our customers. 

13




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•A design that maximizes the use of open, non-proprietary hardware and software interfaces to allow less costly
upgrades as hardware and software technology improves. 


Our
intercity network covering approximately 13,000 miles across Europe incorporates a multiple conduit structure in approximately 4,000 miles and many of the same characteristics as described above
with respect to our North American intercity network in a multiple ring architecture. 


        Local Market Infrastructure.    Our local facilities include fiber optic metropolitan networks connecting our intercity network and
Gateways to
buildings housing communications intensive end users, enterprise customers and traffic aggregation points—including ILEC and CLEC central offices, long distance carrier
points-of-presence or POPs, cable head-ends, wireless providers' facilities and Internet peering and transit facilities. Our high fiber count metropolitan networks
allow us to extend our services directly to our customers' locations at low costs, because the availability of this network infrastructure does not require extensive multiplexing equipment to reach a
customer location, which is required in ordinary fiber constrained metropolitan networks. 


        We
had secured approximately 6.9 million square feet of space for our Gateway and transmission facilities as of December 31, 2010, and had completed the build out of
approximately 4.6 million square feet of this space. Our initial Gateway facilities were designed to house local sales staff, operational staff, our transmission and Internet Protocol routing
and Softswitch facilities and technical space to accommodate colocation services—that is, the colocation of equipment by high-volume Level 3 customers, in an
environmentally controlled, secure site with direct access to Level 3's network generally through dual, fault tolerant connections. As a result of our acquisitions, some of our facilities are
larger than our initial facilities and were designed to include a smaller percentage of total square feet for our transmission and Internet Protocol routing/Softswitch facilities and a larger
percentage of total square feet to support the sale of colocation services. Availability of these services varies by location. 

        As
of December 31, 2010, we had operational, facilities based, local metropolitan networks in 116 U.S. markets and 9 European markets. 

        As
of December 31, 2010, we also had approximately 145 markets in service in North America and approximately 45 markets in service in Europe. 


        Transoceanic Networks.    Our European network is linked to our North American intercity network by leased capacity and by the Level 3
transatlantic cable system, which was completed and placed into service during 2000 and originally had a design capacity of 1.28 Tbps. The deployment of the system—which we refer to as the
Yellow system—was completed pursuant to a co-build agreement announced in February 2000, whereby Global Crossing Ltd. participated in the construction of, and obtained a
50% ownership interest, in the Yellow system. Under the co-build agreement, Level 3 and Global Crossing Ltd. each now separately own
two of the four fiber pairs on the Yellow system. The Yellow system has been upgraded and our two fiber pairs now have capacity of 1.8 Tbps. 


        We
acquired additional capacity on Atlantic Crossing 1, to serve as redundant capacity for our fiber pairs on the Yellow system. We also own capacity in the TAT-14 cable
system. In connection with our acquisition of WilTel Communications, LLC, or WilTel, we secured additional capacity on Atlantic Crossing 1 and on TAT-14. In 2006, we purchased 300
Gigabits of transatlantic capacity with the right to purchase 300 Gigabits of additional optional capacity from Apollo Submarine Cable System Ltd. In January 2007 we purchased 150 Gigabits of
the additional optional capacity available from Apollo Submarine Cable System Ltd, 150 Gigabits in May 2007 and an additional 100 Gigabits in November 2007. We are also acquiring an additional
1 Terabit of capacity on the Apollo South cable system, which will be drawn down over a multi-year period. We are also an owner on the Japan-US, and China-US cable
systems, an indefeasible right of use, or IRU, holder on Southern Cross cable system as well as an owner on the Americas II cable and an IRU holder on the Arcos system. We also own capacity on 

14




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



the
Reliance-Globacom transatlantic system Flag Atlantic-1 and capacity on the Hibernia transatlantic cable system. In 2009, we also secured 30 Gigabits of additional capacity on the
Atlantic Crossing I cable system. 

 Our Patent Portfolio  

        Through acquisitions and through our own research and development, we have approximately 850 patents and patent applications in the
United States and around the world, as of December 31, 2010. Our patent portfolio includes patents covering technologies ranging from data and voice services to content distribution to
transmission and networking equipment. 

        In
addition to the patents and patent applications we own, we have received licenses to patents held by others, including through a cross-license agreement with IBM entered into in
December 2007, giving us access to technology covered by IBM's approximately (at that time) 42,000 patents covering many technologies relevant to our business. While patents give us the right to
prevent others, particularly competitors, from using our proprietary technologies, patent licenses give us the freedom to operate our business without the risk of interruption from the holder of the
patent that has been licensed to us. 

        We
have used our patent portfolio in a number of ways. First, developing or acquiring technologies and receiving the legal right to preclude others from using them may give us a
competitive advantage. Second, the breadth and depth of our patent portfolio may deter others, particularly telecommunications operators, from bringing patent infringement claims against us for fear
of
counter-claim by us. Most of the patent infringement suits brought against us to date have been initiated by patent-holding companies who do not operate telecommunications businesses and who are less
likely to be subject to a counter-claim of infringement by us. Finally, the extensiveness of our patent portfolio gives us the option to cross-license with others having similarly broad portfolios on
terms acceptable to us, mitigating the risk that others will wish to assert patent infringement claims against us. 

        We
will continue to file new patent applications as we enhance and develop products and services, we will continue to seek opportunities to expand our patent portfolio through strategic
acquisitions and licensing and we will continue to appropriately enforce our patents against infringement by others. 


 Our Content Acquisition and Delivery Networks  

        We believe that our Vyvx and Content Distribution Network, or CDN, assets combined with our other network infrastructure provide us
with a competitive advantage in the content acquisition and distribution business. This belief is based on several factors.  



•Network Scale.  Because we are a facilities based provider,
our ability to increase capacity to meet the needs of content providers is greater than other CDN providers who do not have the flexibility to quickly increase their available network capacity.  
•Network Reach.  We believe our customers' content reaches
global Internet destinations using an average number of "hops" that are fewer than with most other CDN providers, which enables our customers to easily reach their audiences and provide a better
viewing experience. The fewer number of hops required to reach Internet destinations serves to reduce latency and jitter.   
•Low Cost Position.  Because we own or control much of the
underlying network infrastructure required to deliver our CDN services, we believe that we are positioned to offer cost advantages to our customers. By moving content at scale, our customers can take
advantage of lower unit costs for bandwidth, colocation, servers and disk space. 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•Network Performance.  Because we own or control much of
the underlying network infrastructure, we believe that we are positioned to optimize end user performance as we are the operators of that infrastructure. 


 CDN Applications  

        There are an increasing number of applications for CDN, across many types of customers, particularly Internet-centric businesses and
businesses that desire to accommodate increasingly larger file sizes for transmission over the Internet. The media and entertainment industries use CDN services to provide on-demand
streaming and live streaming. Social networking businesses require CDN to provide their customers with fast reliable music and video downloads. Likewise, through the use of CDN, software companies are
able to provide software downloads for their customers. Online retailers and advertisers use CDN services to provide images and to download advertisements. Online gaming companies provide game
downloads, applications updates and delivery of demos and trailers through CDN. 

 Content Acquisition and Distribution Services Architecture  

        CDN describes a system of computers networked together across the Internet to provide content to users in the most efficient manner to
enable an optimal user experience. In a CDN, nodes or groups of computers are deployed in multiple locations closer to the end user, also known as the "edge of the network" and cooperate with each
other to satisfy requests for content by end users, transparently moving content behind the scenes to optimize the delivery process. Requests for content are directed intelligently through
sophisticated software applications to nodes that provide optimal performance for end users. 

        The
Vyvx platform transmits audio and video programming for our customers over our fiber-optic network and via satellite. We use our network to carry many live traditional broadcast and
cable television events from the site of the event to the network control centers of the broadcasters of the
event. These events include live sporting events of the major professional sports leagues. For live events where the location is not known in advance, such as breaking news stories in remote
locations, we provide an integrated satellite and fiber-optic network based service to transmit the content to our customers. Most of our customers for these services contract for the service on an
event-by-event basis; however, we have some customers who have purchased a dedicated point-to-point service, which enables these customers to transmit
programming at any time. 

        The
CDN platform directs network traffic across our existing physical network and infrastructure. The CDN platform is composed of the edge server or computer that provides caching and
streaming functions, and the global server that provides load balancing—that is, a computer that directs the traffic to the most efficient edge server to meet the end user's request. The
edge server enables the storage of popular content in a location that is closer to the end user and thereby reduces bandwidth requirements and improves response times for that stored content. The
global server or computer load balancing components of the CDN directs end user requests to the content source that is best able to serve the request of the particular end user, such as routing to the
service node that is closest to the end user or to the one with enough capacity to service the request of the end user. 


 Business Support Systems  

        In order to pursue our business strategies, we have developed and are continuing to develop and implement a set of integrated software
applications designed to automate our operational processes. These development activities also relate to the integration of the systems that were used by the companies that we have acquired. Through
the development of our business support systems, we believe that we have the opportunity to develop a competitive advantage relative to traditional 

16




 


<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



telecommunications
companies. In addition, we recognize that for the success of certain of our services that some of our business support systems will need to be easily accessible and usable directly
by our customers. 

        We
are currently deploying a unified set of simplified processes and systems that have been designed to streamline and synchronize our service, sales and operational functions. These
processes and systems have been designed to provide improved capability in service catalog management, sales opportunity management, customer management, quoting, order entry, order workflow, physical
and logical network inventory management, service management, and financial management. We completed the foundation of this platform at the end of 2009, and we are now focusing on operational
efficiency improvements and data integrity and migration. 

        Key
design aspects of the business support system development program are: 



•integrated modular applications to allow us to upgrade specific applications as new services are available;  
•a scalable architecture that allows our customers and third party sales channel partners direct access to certain
functions that would otherwise have to be performed by our employees;   
•phased completion of software releases designed to allow us to test functionality on an incremental basis;  
•"web-enabled" applications so that on-line access to order entry, network operations, billing, and
customer care functions is available to all authorized users, including our customers;   
•use of a tiered, client/server architecture that is designed to separate data and applications, and is expected to enable
continued improvement of software functionality at minimum cost; and   
•use of pre-developed or commercial "off-the-shelf" applications, where applicable,
which will interface to our internally developed applications. 


 Competition  

        The communications industry has been and remains highly competitive. In the late 1990s and the early 2000s, significant new capacity
was deployed by both existing and new entrants. This oversupply led to a period of financial restructuring and industry consolidation. We believe that these occurrences have led to an improved
industry structure. However, given the significant economies of scale inherent in the communications industry, we believe further consolidation may occur. 

        Our
primary competitors are long distance carriers, ILECs, CLECs, PTTs, Content Delivery Network companies, and other companies that provide communications services. The following
information identifies some key competitors for each of our service offerings. 

        Our
key competitors for our wholesale voice service offerings are other providers of wholesale communications services including AT&T, Verizon, Qwest (which is in the process of being
acquired by CenturyLink, Inc.), Global Crossing and Competitive Local Exchange Carriers. 

        For
our IP and Data services, we compete with companies that include Verizon, AT&T, Global Crossing, Tata and Cogent in North America, and TeliaSonera, Global Crossing and Cogent in
Europe. 

        For
transport services, our key competitors in the United States are other facilities based communications companies including AT&T, Verizon, Qwest, tw telecom, Abovenet and XO. In
Europe, our key competitors are other carriers such as PTTs, Telia International, Colt, Interoute, KPN, Belgacom and Global Crossing. 


        Our
key competitors for our colocation services are other facilities based communications companies, and other colocation providers such as web hosting companies and third party
colocation companies. In the United States, these companies include Equinix, Savvis and Internap. In Europe, competitors include Equinix, Global Switch, InterXion, Telecity and Telehouse Europe. 

17






<A
NAME="page_de47001_1_18"> 



































  
Table of Contents 

        In the enterprise and government markets, our key competitors include ILECs (such as AT&T, Verizon and Qwest/Centurylink) and CLECs (such as tw telecom). 

        For
Content Distribution Network or CDN services, our key competitors include Akamai Technologies and Limelight Networks. 

        The
communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. For instance, periodic technological advances permit substantial increases in transmission capacity
of both new and existing fiber, and the introduction of new products or emergence of new technologies may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those which we plan on
providing. Accordingly, in the future our most significant competitors may be new entrants to the communications industry, which—unlike the traditional incumbent carriers we also compete
with—are not burdened by an installed base of outmoded or legacy equipment. 

 Regulation  



 Federal Regulation  



        The Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, has jurisdiction over interstate and international communications services. The
FCC's regulation of common carriers without market power, such as us, is less stringent than its regulation of dominant incumbent local exchange carriers. We have obtained FCC approval to land our
transatlantic cable in the United States. We have obtained FCC authorization to provide international services on a facilities- and resale-basis as well as various wireless licenses. Under the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "1996 Act"), any entity, including cable television companies, electric and gas utilities, may enter any telecommunications market, subject to reasonable state
regulation of safety, quality and consumer protection. 

        As
of August 1, 2001, our tariffs for interstate end user services were eliminated and our tariffs for international interexchange services were eliminated on January 28,
2002. Our rates must still be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. Our state tariffs remain in place. We have historically relied primarily on our sales force and marketing activities to provide
information to our customers regarding these matters and expect to continue to do so. Further, in accordance with the FCC's orders we maintain a schedule of our rates, terms and conditions for our
domestic and international private line services on our web site. 

         Special Access Regulation.    Special access services are "lit" loop or transport facilities that support the transmission of data on a
point-to-point basis, often referred to as "private lines." Level 3 purchases a substantial amount of special access services from ILECs and other telecommunications
carriers to reach customer premises and, less frequently, to support interoffice transport requirements. In addition, Level 3 provides special access services to end user customers and to other
carriers via its own network and/or through the resale of other carriers' special access services. 

        In
January 2005, the FCC commenced an examination of the regulatory framework governing the rates, terms, and conditions under which ILECs subject to "price cap" regulation provide
interstate special access services. In this rulemaking, the FCC is reviewing both the price cap regime by which ILEC special access rates are set in most areas, as well as the "pricing flexibility"
regime under which ILECs have obtained the ability to enter into more individualized relationships with customers based upon certain threshold showings of the presence of competitors in a specific
geographic and product market. We have requested as a measure of interim relief that the FCC prohibit (or "freeze") any increases by ILECs in the rates applicable to special access services pending
the gathering of data and adoption of final rules in this proceeding. Others have advocated for additional relief, including a revocation altogether of ILEC pricing flexibility and/or reduction of
"price cap" ILEC interstate special access rates. The FCC has not yet ruled on Level 3's request for interim relief or the other pending 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



requests.
The FCC is reviewing the voluminous record in this proceeding, but we do not anticipate that the FCC will issue a comprehensive ruling in this rulemaking until at least mid- to
late-2011. 

         Network Neutrality and Open Internet.    In 2005, the FCC adopted its Internet Policy Statement<FONT
SIZE=2> seeking
to safeguard and promote unimpeded access to the Internet by announcing the following four general Internet policy principles that, subject to reasonable network management, would guide the FCC's
interpretation of its statutory responsibilities to encourage broadband deployment and preserve and promote the open and interconnected nature of the public Internet. Specifically, consumers are
entitled to: 



•access the lawful Internet content of their choice;   
•run applications and use services of their choice, subject to the needs of law enforcement;   
•connect their choice of legal devices that do not harm the network; and   
•competition among network providers, application and service providers, and content providers. 


        In
2008, the FCC issued an order finding that Comcast violated the Internet Policy Statement and engaged in "unreasonable network
management practices" by blocking BitTorrent and other peer-to-peer Internet traffic. The FCC required Comcast to disclose details of its network management practices, commit
to a plan to cease such practices, and provide details of a new nondiscriminatory network management practice. Comcast appealed the FCC's decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit, which in April of 2010, held that the FCC had failed to show that it had the legal authority to issue the ruling. On December 21, 2010, the FCC issued a Report and
Order entitled "Preserving the Open Internet: Broadband Industry Practices" (the "Open Internet Order"), which provided, among other things, that
broadband providers must: 1) be transparent about, and therefore disclose, their network management practices; ii) not block lawful content; and 3) not unreasonably discriminate
in transmitting lawful content. The Open Internet Order may be subject to both court and legislative challenge. We cannot predict the nature and extent of the effect that further action by the FCC in
this area may have on the Company and its operations. 

        In
November 2010, in connection with Level 3's request to augment interconnection capacity with Comcast, Comcast demanded that Level 3 enter into an agreement and pay
Comcast for interconnection capacity. Level 3 agreed to Comcast's demand under protest, and initiated steps to bring the issue to the attention of federal policy makers. Our dispute with
Comcast has not yet been resolved. There is a risk that, if Comcast prevails in its claims that such a charge is not prohibited under applicable law (including the Open Internet Order), other retail
Internet service providers may make similar demands for payment relating to interconnection with their networks. 

         Intercarrier compensation.    Telecommunications carriers compensate one another for traffic carried on each other's networks.
Interexchange carriers
pay access charges to local telephone companies for long distance calls that originate and terminate on local networks. Local telephone companies typically charge one another for local and
Internet-bound traffic terminating on each other's networks. The entire methodology by which carriers compensate one another for exchanged traffic, whether it be for local, intrastate or interstate
traffic, is under review at the FCC. 

        Apart
from this comprehensive review of intercarrier compensation, individual compensation issues have been the subject of FCC and state commission rulings. Since 1997 the issue of
compensation to be paid for calls dialed to Internet service providers or ISPs has been heavily litigated. Since 2004, the issue of compensation to be paid in connection with the exchange of Voice
over Internet Protocol or VoIP calls has also been the subject of much debate. 


        In
its decision on November 5, 2008, the FCC responded to a mandamus order from the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia concerning its 2001 ISP
Remand Order. In that Mandamus Order, the FCC clarified that it had jurisdiction over ISP bound traffic pursuant to the 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



reciprocal
compensation provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 regardless of whether the traffic was local or long distance. The FCC then decided to maintain the existing compensation regime
it had established for ISP-bound traffic with a rate of $0.0007 per minute of use. The Court of Appeals for the United States in the District of Columbia upheld the FCC's order in January
2010. Despite their breadth, some carriers continue to argue that certain types of ISP bound traffic are not covered by the 2001 and 2008 orders. Findings of this nature could affect the Company's
charges for ISP bound traffic. 

        Level 3
maintains approximately 233 interconnection agreements with other telecommunications carriers. These agreements set out the terms and conditions under which the parties
will exchange traffic. The largest agreements are with AT&T and Verizon. Level 3's agreement with AT&T expired on January 11, 2011, but is continuing on a month to month basis.
Level 3's agreement with Verizon expired on March 31, 2009. Upon expiration of the agreement, Level 3 and Verizon will continue to provide services until a successor agreement has
been reached. 

        As
interconnection agreements expire, we will continue to negotiate new agreements but at this time cannot predict what the final terms will be, including compensation for
ISP-bound traffic or VoIP traffic. In the event we initiate arbitration before a state commission to establish the terms of the interconnection agreement, we cannot predict what the final
terms will be, including compensation for ISP-bound traffic or VoIP traffic 

        Given
the general uncertainty surrounding the effect of the FCC and state decisions and appeals, we may have to change (1) how we treat the compensation we receive for terminating
calls bound for ISPs if the agreements under which compensation is paid provided for the incorporation of changes in FCC rules and regulations; (2) the manner in which we account for the
compensation and costs of intercarrier compensation for VOIP. 

        There
is also uncertainty in respect to intercarrier compensation for VoIP traffic. As in the ISP intercarrier compensation situation, the FCC has issued a number of rulings asserting
its jurisdiction over such traffic, but to date it has not issued any rulings on the scope and rate of intercarrier compensation to be paid by carriers exchanging VoIP traffic. Some carriers assert
that VoIP traffic is local in nature and thereby subject to local compensation rates, while other carriers have taken the position that some or all of this traffic should be subject to higher
intrastate or interstate rates. A number of carriers have filed petitions with the FCC seeking a declaratory ruling on the treatment of VoIP traffic. These petitions have either been withdrawn or
rejected based on procedural grounds. In those cases, the FCC did not resolve the question of the appropriate intercarrier compensation. 

        Until
such time as the FCC acts in such a way as to either clarify its rulings on ISP compensation, VoIP compensation or rules on intercarrier compensation in its entirety, and such
rules are final and non-appealable, the scope of intercarrier compensation obligations between carriers exchanging ISP or VoIP traffic is uncertain. 


        Universal Service.    Level 3 is subject to federal and state regulations that implement universal service support for access to
communications
services in rural, high-cost and low-income markets at reasonable rates; and access to advanced communications services by schools, libraries and rural health care providers.
The FCC assesses Level 3 a percentage of interstate and international revenue it receives from retail customers as its contribution to the Federal Universal Service Fund. The FCC is considering
changing the method by which our contributions are assessed to a flat-fee charge, such as a per-line or per-number charge. Additionally, the FCC recently ruled that
states may assess contributions to their state Universal Service Fund from Voice over Internet Protocol providers. Any change in the assessment methodology may affect Level 3's revenues, but at
this time it is not possible to predict the extent we would be affected, if at all. 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 State Regulation  



        The 1996 Act is intended to increase competition in the telecommunications industry, especially in the local exchange market. With
respect to local services, ILECs are required to allow interconnection to their networks and to provide unbundled access to network facilities, as well as a number of other pro-competitive
measures. Because the implementation of the 1996 Act is subject to numerous state rulemaking proceedings on these issues, it is difficult to predict how quickly full competition for local services
will be realized. 

        State
regulatory agencies have jurisdiction when our facilities and services are used to provide intrastate telecommunications services. A portion of our traffic may be classified as
intrastate telecommunications and therefore subject to state regulation. We expect that we will offer more intrastate telecommunications services (including intrastate switched services) as our
business and product lines expand. We are authorized to provide telecommunications services in all fifty states and the District of Columbia. In addition, we will be required to obtain and maintain
interconnection agreements with ILECs where we wish to provide service. We expect that we should be able to negotiate or otherwise obtain renewals or successor agreements through adoption of others'
contracts or arbitration
proceedings, although the rates, terms, and conditions applicable to interconnection and the exchange of traffic with certain ILECs could change significantly in certain cases. The degree to which the
rates, terms, and conditions may change will depend not only upon the negotiation and arbitration process and availability of other interconnection agreements, but will also depend in significant part
upon state commission proceedings that either uphold or modify the current regimes governing interconnection and the exchange of certain kinds of traffic between carriers. 

        There
are initiatives in several state legislatures to lower intrastate access rates, aligning them with interstate rates. While we believe that rate adjustment initiatives such as this
are generally better considered holistically by the FCC as part of its overall intercarrier compensation reforms, some states have and may continue to determine otherwise. Depending on whether we are
a net collector or a net payer of any adjusted rate, such rate adjustments could have a negative effect on the Company. 


        States
also often require prior approvals or notifications for certain transfers of assets, customers or ownership of certificated carriers and for issuances by certified carriers of
equity or debt. 



 Local Regulation  



        Our networks are subject to numerous local regulations such as building codes and licensing. Such regulations vary on a
city-by-city, county-by-county and state-by-state basis. To install our own fiber optic transmission facilities, we need to
obtain rights-of-way over privately and publicly owned land. Rights-of-way that are not already secured, or which may expire and not be renewed, may not
be available to us on economically reasonable or advantageous terms in the future. 



 Regulation of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)  

 Federal and State  



        Due to the growing acceptance and deployment of VoIP services, the FCC and state public utility commissions are conducting regulatory
proceedings that could affect the regulatory duties and rights of entities such as us or our affiliates that provide IP-based voice applications. There is regulatory uncertainty as to the
imposition of access charges and other taxes, fees and surcharges on VoIP services that use the public switched telephone network. There is regulatory uncertainty as to the imposition of traditional
retail, common carrier regulation on VoIP products and services. 

        The
rules respecting the payments made by carriers for the exchange of VoIP traffic have been subject to much debate. The FCC has not clarified whether VoIP traffic is to be subjected to
the access charges regime that is applicable to traditional telecom service, or whether VoIP traffic is to be treated 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



as
an "information service" or "enhanced" and not subject to access charges. There are a number of petitions and proceedings pending before the FCC where this issue could be resolved. At this time, it
is difficult to predict the outcome of any of these proceedings or the timing for their eventual resolution. As a result, we cannot predict the effect that any such rulings could have on our provision
of VoIP services. 

        The
FCC has classified VoIP services as "interstate" services subject to FCC regulations, and has stated that states have limited authority to regulate the offering of VoIP services. On
September 22, 2003, Vonage Holdings Corporation ("Vonage") filed a petition with the FCC requesting a declaration that its offerings, which originate on a broadband network in IP format and
terminate on the PSTN, are interstate information services not subject to state regulation under the 1996 Act and existing FCC rules. On November 10, 2004, the FCC adopted an order (which was
subsequently upheld on appeal) ruling that Vonage's service was an interstate service not subject to state regulation. 


        On
June 3, 2005, the FCC issued an order (which was subsequently upheld on appeal) requiring all interconnected VoIP providers to deliver enhanced 911 capabilities to their
subscribers by no later than November 28, 2005. We have modified our service offerings to VoIP providers in order to assist them in complying with the FCC mandate. 

        In
2007, the FCC imposed some regulatory requirements on VoIP providers that had previously been applicable only to traditional telecommunications providers. The FCC (a) imposed
obligations on VoIP providers to contribute to the federal universal service fund, and (b) required VoIP carriers to comply with regulations relating to local number portability (including
contributing to the costs of managing
number portability requirements). In addition, a number of state public utility commissions are conducting regulatory proceedings that could affect our rights and obligations with respect to
IP-based voice applications. Specifically, some states have taken the position that the "local" component of VoIP service is subject to traditional regulations applicable to local
telecommunications services, such as the obligation to pay intrastate universal service fees. 

        We
cannot predict the outcome of any of these petitions and regulatory proceedings or any similar petitions and regulatory proceedings pending before the FCC or state public utility
commissions. Moreover, we cannot predict how their outcomes may affect our operations or whether the FCC or state public utility commissions will impose additional requirements, regulations or charges
upon our provision of services related to IP communications. 

 European Regulation  

        Unlike the United States which has a federal-state regulatory scheme, the European Union has adopted a more systematic approach to the
convergence of networks and the regulation of telecommunications services. The European Commission oversees the implementation by its Member States of various directives developed to regulate
electronic communications in a technology and platform neutral manner. In February 2003, the European Union adopted a new regulatory framework for electronic communications that is designed to address
in a technologically neutral manner the convergence of communications across telecommunications, computer and broadcasting networks. The directives address: (1) framework
(2) interconnection and access, (3) authorization and licensing, (4) universal service and (5) privacy. These directives and an additional decision on radio spectrum
replace the existing 20 directives on electronic communications. Pursuant to that framework, the licensing regime was replaced with a general authorization. Our existing licenses were canceled and
replaced with a general authorization. 

        Notwithstanding
a synchronized approach to regulation in Europe, the implementation of the directives has not been uniform across the Member States of the European Union, and it is
difficult to predict when they will be implemented at the national level. Even with harmonization, the national 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



regulatory
agencies will continue to be responsible for issuing general authorizations and specific licenses. 


 Canadian Regulation  

        Pursuant to the Telecommunications Act ("Act"), the Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission ("CRTC"), has jurisdiction to regulate telecommunications communications and their service offerings in Canada. Regulatory developments over the past several years have
terminated the historic monopolies of the ILECs bringing significant competition to this industry for both domestic and international long distance services. On December 14, 2006, the Governor
in Council (Federal Cabinet) for the first time exercised its statutory power to issue a binding Policy Direction requiring the CRTC, in regulating the telecommunications industry, to rely on market
forces to the maximum extent possible, regulating only to the extent necessary and then in an efficient and a proportionate way. The provision of Canadian domestic and international transmission
facilities based services remains restricted to "Canadian carriers". These carriers must have majority ownership and control in fact by Canadians. There are no such Canadian ownership and control
requirements for companies that resell the services and facilities of a Canadian carrier. Level 3 operates as a reseller in Canada. If the ownership restrictions are repealed, we anticipate
that we will be able to expand our operations and service offerings in Canada. The liberalization of Canadian carrier ownership and control is controversial and there are no immediate prospects for
such a change. 

        While
competition is permitted in all other Canadian telecommunications market segments, we believe that the ILECs will continue to retain a substantial majority of the local and calling
card markets. Beginning in May 1997 and furthered by a Federal Government policy direction, the CRTC has released a number of decisions opening to competition the Canadian local telecommunications
services market. As a result, networks operated by CLECs may now be interconnected with the networks of the ILECs. Transmission facilities based CLECs are subject to the same majority Canadian
ownership "Canadian carrier" requirements as transmission facilities based long distance carriers. CLECs have the same status as ILECs, but without universal service or customer tariff filing
obligations. All bundled and unbundled local services (including residential lines and other bulk services) may now be resold, but ILECs need not provide these services to resellers at wholesale
prices. The CRTC has ruled that resellers cannot be classified as CLECs, and thus are not entitled to CLEC interconnection terms and conditions. 

        With
respect to VoIP services, the CRTC ruled in Decision 2005-28 that it should forbear from regulating circuit switched VoIP services. As a result, ILECs are not required
to file tariffs for the provision of long distance VoIP services. With respect to local VoIP services, the Governor in Council varied the CRTC decision to treat VoIP services as other local exchange
services by making an exception for access independent VoIP services that do not include an ILEC-provided loop. Furthermore, the ILEC, Bell Canada, has received approval of its application
to be relieved of the requirement to obtain pre-approval for price changes for its local VoIP services. Bell has been permitted to notify the CRTC two business days in advance of changes
as long as the price is within an authorized range. 

        In
a March 3, 2008 decision, the CRTC established the regulatory framework for wholesale telecommunications services with rules for the regulation and pricing provided by ILECs to
competitive service providers, such as alternative local and long distance carriers, resellers and ISPs. The CRTC decision revised its definition of an "essential service", established a
six-category framework for the CRTC's regulation of wholesale telecommunications services, categorized various available wholesale services within these identified categories, and
established the regulatory conditions associated with each service category, notably mandated access and pricing principles, as well as the process for the phase-out of regulation for
certain services found to be non-essential. In its 1997 local competition decision, the CRTC had tied essential facilities to those provided on a monopoly basis. In the 2008 

23




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



decision,
non-monopoly facilities will have to be provided to competitors if the CRTC makes a determination that withdrawal of mandatory access would likely result in a substantial
lessening or prevention of competition. The CRTC classified wholesale services that are currently regulated into six categories: essential, conditional essential, conditional mandated
non-essential, public good, interconnection, and non-essential subject to phase-out of regulation. Very few services were classified as essential. In the category
of "conditional essential" wholesale services, the CRTC included wholesale services used for local telephony (primarily unbundled local loops), low-speed competitor digital network access
services, DS-0 and DS-1 access facilities and ADSL access services used to provide high-speed Internet access services to residences and businesses. This essential
conditional category classification will continue until it is demonstrated that wholesale alternatives functionally equivalent are sufficiently present such that withdrawing mandated access would not
likely result in a substantial lessening or prevention of competition in the local exchange services market. Regarding network interconnection services, customer access facilities, and support
structure services, the CRTC considers that these arrangements are technologically and competitively neutral to the greatest extent possible, enable competition from new technologies, and do not
artificially favor Canadian carriers or resellers. 

        The
CRTC has conditionally forborne from regulating the retail Internet services, but not the wholesale Internet services, of Canadian carriers preserving its regulatory powers relating
to unjust discrimination and undue preference or advantage. The CRTC has ruled (Telecom Decision 2008-108) that Bell Canada's application of its traffic shaping measures to its wholesale
ADSL access service known as Gateway Access Service (GAS) were not in violation of the statute. In Public Notice 2008-19, the CRTC noted that Decision 2008-108 dealt only with
Bell Canada's practice of throttling P2P traffic at certain times of the day in relation to its GAS being provided to wholesale customers. In the Public Notice, the CRTC announced it would explore the
current and potential Internet traffic management practices of all ISPs operating in Canada, examining both retail and wholesale services. In October 21, 2009, the CRTC released a policy
framework dealing with Internet Traffic Management Practices for Internet Service Providers. The policy requires ISPs to disclose their network management practices, to implement those practices in a
manner that addresses only the offending conduct; and must be competitively neutral. The CRTC said that it would implement its policy on a case-by-case review. At this time,
the Company cannot predict the effect that this policy might have on its operations. 

 Our Other Business  

        Our company was incorporated as Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc. in Delaware in 1941 to continue a construction business founded in
Omaha, Nebraska in 1884. In subsequent years, we invested a portion of the cash flow generated by our construction activities in a variety of other businesses. We entered the coal mining business in
1943, the telecommunications business in 1988, the information services business in 1990 and the alternative energy business in 1991. We have also made investments in several development stage
ventures. 

        In
December 1997, our stockholders ratified the decision of the Board to effect the split-off separating our historical construction business from the remainder of our
operations. As a result of the split-off, which was completed on March 31, 1998, we no longer own any interest in the prior construction business. In conjunction with the
split-off, we changed our name to "Level 3 Communications, Inc.," and the entity that held the prior construction business changed its name to "Peter Kiewit
Sons', Inc." 

        In
November 2005, we completed the sale of our (i)Structure, LLC subsidiary to Infocrossing, Inc. Prior to the sale,
(i)Structure provided computer operations outsourcing to customers located primarily in the United States. In September 2006, we completed the sale of
100% of the capital stock of our indirect, wholly owned subsidiary, Software Spectrum, Inc. ("Software Spectrum"), to Insight Enterprises, Inc. Prior to the sale, Software Spectrum was a
leading direct marketer of software and provider of software licensing services to corporations. With the completion of the sale of Software Spectrum, we exited the information services business. 

24






<A
NAME="page_dg47001_1_25"> 




































 
Table of Contents 



 Coal Mining  



        We are engaged in coal mining through our subsidiary, KCP, Inc. ("KCP"). KCP has a 50% interest in two mines, which are operated
by a subsidiary of Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc. ("PKS"). Decker Coal Company ("Decker") is a joint venture with Western Minerals, Inc., which is a subsidiary of Cloud Peak Energy Inc.
Black Butte Coal Company ("Black Butte") is a joint venture with Bitter Creek Coal Company, a subsidiary of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation. The Decker mine is located in southeastern Montana and the
Black Butte mine is in southwestern Wyoming. The coal mines use the surface mining method. 

        The
coal produced from the KCP mines is sold primarily to electric utilities, which burn coal to produce steam to generate electricity. Essentially all of the sales were made under
long-term contracts to a limited number of customers, including Pacificorp (Black Butte), Idaho Power (Black Butte), Sierra Pacific (Black Butte), The Detroit Edison Company (Decker),
Virginia Power (Decker), Wolf Mountain (Decker) and Minnesota Power (Decker). The Black Butte mine has commitments to deliver approximately 15.4 million tons of coal through 2015 under
contracts with Pacificorp, Idaho Power and Sierra Pacific. The Decker mine has sales commitments to deliver approximately 7.7 million tons of coal through 2013 with The Detroit Edison Company
and Wolf Mountain. Under a mine management agreement, KCP pays a subsidiary of PKS
an annual fee equal to 30% of KCP's adjusted operating income. The management fee for 2010 was less than $1 million. 

        The
coal industry is highly competitive. KCP competes not only with other domestic and foreign coal suppliers, some of whom are larger and have greater capital resources than KCP, but
also with alternative methods of generating electricity and alternative energy sources. In 2009, the most recent year for which information is available, KCP's production represented less than 1% of
total U.S. coal production. Demand for KCP's coal is affected by economic, political and regulatory factors. For example, recent "clean air" laws may stimulate demand for low sulfur coal. KCP's coal
reserves generally have a low sulfur content (less than one percent) and are currently useful principally as fuel for coal-fired, steam-electric generating units. KCP's customer base may
be negatively affected if legislation is enacted to limit greenhouse gas emissions. 

        KCP's
sales of its coal, like sales by other western coal producers, typically provide for delivery to customers at the mine. A significant portion of the customer's delivered cost of
coal is attributable to transportation costs. The Decker and Black Butte mines are each served by a single railroad. Many of their western coal competitors are served by two railroads and such
competitors' customers often benefit from lower transportation costs because of competition between railroads for coal hauling business. Other western coal producers, particularly those in the Powder
River Basin of Wyoming, have lower stripping ratios (that is, the amount of overburden that must be removed in proportion to the amount of minable coal) than the Black Butte and Decker mines, often
resulting in lower comparative costs of production. As a result, KCP's production costs per ton of coal at the Black Butte and Decker mines can be as much as four and five times greater than
production costs of certain competitors. Because of these cost disadvantages, there is no assurance that KCP will be able to enter into additional long-term coal purchase contracts for
Black Butte and Decker production. In addition, these cost disadvantages may adversely affect KCP's ability to compete for sales in the future. 


        We
are required to comply with various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. KCP's share of land reclamation expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2010 was approximately $4 million. KCP's share of accrued estimated reclamation costs was $105 million at December 31, 2010. We were not required to make
significant capital expenditures for environmental compliance with respect to the coal business in 2010. We believe our compliance with environmental protection and land restoration laws will not
affect our competitive position since our competitors in the mining industry are similarly affected by such laws. However, failure to comply 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



with
environmental protection and land restoration laws, or actual reclamation costs in excess of our accruals, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial
condition. 

        The
operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the Federal Mine Safety and Health Administration ("MSHA") under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (the "Mine Safety
Act"). The following disclosures are provided pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd Frank Act"), which was enacted in July 2010; Section 1503 of the Dodd Frank Act requires certain disclosures by companies required to file periodic
reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that operate mines regulated under the Mine Safety Act. Under the Dodd Frank Act, the SEC is authorized to issue rules and regulations to
carry out the purposes of these provisions, but has not done so as of the date of this report. While we believe the following disclosures meet the requirements of the Dodd Frank Act, it is possible
that any rule-making by the SEC will require disclosures to be presented in a form that differs from this presentation. All of our mining operations are located within the western United
States. 

 Annual Reporting Pursuant to Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Section 1503  

        For 2010, in accordance with Section 1503 of the Dodd Frank Act, we present the following information with respect to the mines
that we operate and those in which we have a 50 percent joint venture ownership interest: 
 






 





















Item



 
 
Big Horn
Mine 
 
Black
Butte
Mine 
 
Decker
Mine 
 
Rosebud
Mine 
 


 Section 104 S&S citations(1)
 
 
—
 
 
6
 
 
2
 
 
—
 


 Section 104(b) orders(2)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Section 104(d) citations and orders(3)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1
 
 
—
 


 Section 110(b)(2) violations(4)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Section 107(a) orders(5)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Proposed MSHA assessments(6)
 
 
—
 
$
14,310
 
$
31,365
 
 
—
 


 Fatalities(7)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Section 104(e) notices(8)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Pending Mine Safety Commission legal actions (including any contested penalties for citations issued)(9)
 
 
—
 
 
35
 
 
1
 
 
—
 



 

 




(1)Total
number of violations of mandatory health or safety standards that could significantly and substantially contribute to the cause and effect of a coal
mine safety or health hazard under section 104 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 814) (the "Mine Safety Act") for which we received a citation from MSHA.
(2)Total
number of orders issued under section 104(b) of the Mine Safety Act (30 U.S.C. 814(b)).
(3)Total
number of citations and orders for unwarrantable failure of Level 3 to comply with mandatory health or safety standards under
section 104(d) of the Mine Safety Act (30 U.S.C. 814(d)).
(4)Total
number of flagrant violations under section 110(b)(2) of the Mine Safety Act (30 U.S.C. 820(b)(2)).
(5)Total
number of imminent danger orders issued under section 107(a) of the Mine Safety Act (30 U.S.C. 817(a)).
(6)Total
dollar value of proposed assessments from MSHA under the Mine Safety Act (30 U.S.C. 801 et seq.). 
 
 26




 


<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents
 



(7)Total
number of mining-related fatalities.
(8)Any
coal mines owned and operated by us that received written notice from MSHA of (A) a pattern of violations of mandatory health or safety standards
that are of such nature as could have significantly and substantially contributed to the cause and effect of coal mine health or safety hazards under section 104(e) of such Mine Safety Act (30
U.S.C. 814(e)); or (B) the potential to have such a pattern.
(9)The
information in the table reflects the pending legal actions before the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission as of December 31, 2010.
The following list includes legal actions that were initiated prior to the current reporting period and that do not necessarily relate to citations, orders or proposed assessments issued by MSHA
during the year ending December 31, 2010. Of the 35 pending legal actions at the Black Butte mine, 34 represent contests of citations or orders (for which the aggregate amount assessed to date
is less than $100,000) under Section 104(a) of the Mine Safety Act and one represents a citation under Section 104(g)(1) of the Mine Safety Act. The one pending legal action at the
Decker mine represents a citation under Section 104(d)(1). 
 
  Glossary of Terms  
 

















access
 
Telecommunications services that permit long distance carriers to use local exchange facilities to originate and/or terminate long distance service.


access charges
 
The fees paid by long distance carriers to LECs for originating and terminating long distance calls on the LECs' local networks.


ATM (asynchronous transfer mode)
 
An information transfer standard that is one of a general class of packet technologies that relay traffic by way of an address contained within the first five bytes of a standard fifty-three byte long
packet or cell. The ATM format can be used by many different information systems, including LANs, to deliver traffic at varying rates, permitting a mix of data, voice and video.


backbone
 
A high-speed network that interconnects smaller, independent networks. It is the through-portion of a transmission network, as opposed to spurs which branch off the through-portions.


CAP
 
Competitive Access Provider. A company that provides its customers with an alternative to the local exchange company for local transport of private line and special access telecommunications
services.


caching
 
A process by which a Web storage device or cache is located between Web servers (or origin servers) and a user, and watches requests for HTML pages and objects such as images, audio, and video, then
saves a copy for itself. If there is another request for the same object, the cache will use its copy, instead of asking the origin server for it again.


capacity
 
The information carrying ability of a telecommunications facility.


carrier
 
A provider of communications transmission services by fiber, wire or radio.



 
 27




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents
 






 










CDN
 
Content Distribution Network or CDN describes a system of computers networked together across the Internet that cooperate transparently to deliver various types of content to end users. The delivery
process is optimized generally for either performance or cost. When optimizing for performance, locations that can serve content quickly to the user are chosen. When optimizing for cost, locations that are less expensive to serve from may be chosen
instead.


central office
 
Telephone company facility where subscribers' lines are joined to switching equipment for connecting other subscribers to each other, locally and long distance.


CLEC
 
Competitive Local Exchange Carrier. A company that competes with LECs in the local services market.


co-carrier
 
A relationship between a CLEC and an ILEC that affords each company the same access to and right on the other's network and provides access and services on an equal basis.


common carrier
 
A government defined group of private companies offering telecommunications services or facilities to the general public on a non-discriminatory basis.


conduit
 
A pipe, usually made of metal, ceramic or plastic, that protects buried cables.


DS-3
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 45 Mbps.


dark fiber
 
Fiber optic strands that are not connected to transmission equipment.


dedicated lines
 
Telecommunications lines reserved for use by particular customers.


dialing parity
 
The ability of a competing local or toll service provider to provide telecommunications services in such a manner that customers have the ability to route automatically, without the use of any access
code, their telecommunications to the service provider of the customers' designation.


equal access
 
The basis upon which customers of interexchange carriers are able to obtain access to their Primary Interexchange Carriers' (PIC) long distance telephone network by dialing "1", thus eliminating the
need to dial additional digits and an authorization code to obtain such access.


facilities based carriers
 
Carriers that own and operate their own network and equipment.


fiber optics
 
A technology in which light is used to transport information from one point to another. Fiber optic cables are thin filaments of glass through which light beams are transmitted over long distances carrying
enormous amounts of data. Modulating light on thin strands of glass produces major benefits including high bandwidth, relatively low cost, low power consumption, small space needs and total insensitivity to electromagnetic interference.



 
 28




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents
 






 










Gbps
 
Gigabits per second. A transmission rate. One gigabit equals 1.024 billion bits of information.


ILEC
 
Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier. A company historically providing local telephone service. Often refers to one of the Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOCs). Often referred to as "LEC" (Local
Exchange Carrier).


Interconnection
 
Interconnection of facilities between or among the networks of carriers, including potential physical colocation of one carrier's equipment in the other carrier's premises to facilitate such
interconnection.


InterLATA
 
Telecommunications services originating in a LATA and terminating outside of that LATA.


Internet
 
A global collection of interconnected computer networks which use a specific communications protocol.


IntraLATA
 
Telecommunications services originating and terminating in the same LATA.


ISDN
 
Integrated Services Digital Network. An information transfer standard for transmitting digital voice and data over telephone lines at speeds up to 128 Kbps.


ISPs
 
Internet Service Providers. Companies formed to provide access to the Internet to consumers and business customers via local networks.


IXC
 
Interexchange Carrier. A telecommunications company that provides telecommunications services between local exchanges on an interstate or intrastate basis.


Kbps
 
Kilobits per second. A transmission rate. One kilobit equals 1,024 bits of information.


LATA
 
Local Access and Transport Area. A geographic area composed of contiguous local exchanges, usually but not always within a single state. There are approximately 200 LATAs in the United
States.


leased line
 
An amount of telecommunications capacity dedicated to a particular customer along predetermined routes.


LEC
 
Local Exchange Carrier. A telecommunications company that provides telecommunications services in a geographic area. LECs include both ILECs and CLECs.


local exchange
 
A geographic area determined by the appropriate state regulatory authority in which calls generally are transmitted without toll charges to the calling or called party.


local loop
 
A circuit that connects an end user to the LEC central office within a LATA.


long distance carriers
 
Long distance carriers provide services between local exchanges on an interstate or intrastate basis. A long distance carrier may offer services over its own or another carrier's
facilities.



 
 29




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents
 






 










Mbps
 
Megabits per second. A transmission rate. One megabit equals 1.024 million bits of information.


MPLS
 
MultiProtocol Label Switching. A standards approved technology for speeding up network traffic flow and making it easier to manage. MPLS involves setting up a specific path for a given sequence of
packets, identified by a label put in each packet, thus saving the time needed for a router or switch to look up the address to the next node to forward the packet to.


multiplexing
 
An electronic or optical process that combines a large number of lower speed transmission lines into one high speed line by splitting the total available bandwidth into narrower bands (frequency
division), or by allotting a common channel to several different transmitting devices, one at a time in sequence (time division).


NAP
 
Network Access Point. A location at which ISPs exchange traffic with each other.


OC-3
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 155 Mbps.


OC-12
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 622 Mbps.


OC-48
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at approximately 2.45 Gbps.


PBX
 
Private Branch eXchange. A PBX, sometimes known as a phone switch or phone switching device, is a device that connects office telephones in a business with the PSTN. The functions of a PBX include
routing incoming calls to the appropriate extension in an office, sharing phone lines between extensions, automated greetings for callers using recorded messages, dialing menus, connections to voicemail, automatic call distribution and
teleconferencing.


peering
 
The commercial practice under which ISPs exchange traffic with each other. Although ISPs are free to make a private commercial arrangement, there are generally two types of peering. With a settlement
free peering arrangement the ISPs do not need to pay each other for the exchange of traffic. With paid peering, the larger ISP receives payment from the smaller ISP to carry the traffic of that smaller ISP. Peering occurs at both public and private
exchange points.


POP
 
Point of Presence. Telecommunications facility where a communications provider locates network equipment used to connect customers to its network backbone.


private line
 
A dedicated telecommunications connection between end user locations.



 
 30




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents
 






 










PSTN
 
Public Switched Telephone Network. That portion of a local exchange company's network available to all users generally on a shared basis (i.e., not dedicated to a particular user). Traffic along the
public switched network is generally switched at the local exchange company's central offices.


Public Safety Answering Point
 
An answering location for 911 calls originating in a given area. PSAPs are typically a common bureau used to answer emergency calls and dispatch safety agencies such as police, fire, emergency medical,
etc.


RBOCs
 
Regional Bell Operating Companies. Originally, the seven local telephone companies established as a result of the AT&T Divestiture.


reciprocal compensation
 
The compensation of a CLEC for termination of a local call by the ILEC on the CLEC's network, which is the same as the compensation that the CLEC pays the ILEC for termination of local calls on the
ILEC's network.


resale
 
Resale by a provider of telecommunications services (such as a LEC) of such services to other providers or carriers on a wholesale or a retail basis.


router
 
Equipment placed between networks that relays data to those networks based upon a destination address contained in the data packets being routed.


selective router
 
Telephone switch or functional equivalent, controlled by the relevant local exchange carrier (LEC), which determines the PSAP to which a 911 call should be delivered based on the location of the 911
caller.


SONET
 
Synchronous Optical Network. An electronics and network architecture for variable bandwidth products which enables transmission of voice, data and video (multimedia) at very high speeds. SONET ring
architecture provides for virtually instantaneous restoration of service in the event of a fiber cut or equipment failure by automatically rerouting traffic in the opposite direction around the ring.


special access services
 
The lease of private, dedicated telecommunications lines or "circuits" along the network of a local exchange company or a CAP, which lines or circuits run to or from the long distance carrier POPs.
Examples of special access services are telecommunications lines running between POPs of a single long distance carrier, from one long distance carrier POP to the POP of another long distance carrier or from an end user to a long distance carrier
POP.


streaming
 
Streaming is the delivery of media, such as movies and live presentations, over a network in real time. A computer (a streaming server) sends the media to another computer (a client computer), which
plays the media as it is delivered.



 
 31




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents
 






 










switch
 
A device that selects the paths or circuits to be used for transmission of information and establishes a connection. Switching is the process of interconnecting circuits to form a transmission path
between users and it also captures information for billing purposes.


Tbps
 
Terabits per second. A transmission rate. One terabit equals 1.024 trillion bits of information.


T-1
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 1.544 Mbps.


TDM
 
Time Division Multiplexing. A technology that transmits multiple signals simultaneously over a single transmission path.


unbundled
 
Services, programs, software and training sold separately from the hardware.


unbundled access
 
Access to unbundled elements of a telecommunications services provider's network including network facilities, equipment, features, functions and capabilities, at any technically feasible point within
such network.


VoIP
 
Voice over Internet Protocol


VPC
 
VoIP Positioning Center. An entity that maintains an end user location database and manages the technology including query keys and routing number pools used to deliver 911 calls to the correct PSAP
for emergency handling.


web site
 
A server connected to the Internet from which Internet users can obtain information.


wireless
 
A communications system that operates without wires. Cellular service is an example.


world wide web or web
 
A collection of computer systems supporting a communications protocol that permits multimedia presentation of information over the Internet.


xDSL
 
A term referring to a variety of newer Digital Subscriber Line technologies. Some of these newer varieties are asymmetric with different data rates in the downstream and upstream directions. Others are
symmetric. Downstream speeds range from 384 Kbps (or "SDSL") to 1.5 to 8 Mbps ("ADSL").



 
 32




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Directors and Executive Officers  


        Set forth below is information as of February 25, 2011, about our directors and our executive officers. Our executive officers
have been determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC. 
 






 













Name



 
 
Age 
 
Position 


 Walter Scott, Jr. 
 
 
79
 
Chairman of the Board


 James Q. Crowe
 
 
61
 
Chief Executive Officer and Director


 Jeff K. Storey
 
 
50
 
President and Chief Operating Officer


 Charles C. Miller, III
 
 
58
 
Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President and Director


 Sunit S. Patel
 
 
49
 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


 John M. Ryan
 
 
47
 
Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary


 Andrew Crouch
 
 
40
 
President Sales, Level 3 Communications, LLC


 Eric J. Mortensen
 
 
52
 
Senior Vice President and Controller


 R. Douglas Bradbury
 
 
60
 
Director(1)


 Douglas C. Eby
 
 
51
 
Director(1)


 Admiral James O. Ellis, Jr. 
 
 
63
 
Director(3)


 Richard R. Jaros
 
 
59
 
Director(2)


 Robert E. Julian
 
 
71
 
Director(1)


 Michael J. Mahoney
 
 
60
 
Director(2)


 Rahul N. Merchant
 
 
54
 
Director(1)


 Arun Netravali
 
 
64
 
Director(2)


 John T. Reed
 
 
67
 
Director(1)(3)


 Michael B. Yanney
 
 
77
 
Director(3)


 Dr. Albert C. Yates
 
 
69
 
Director(2)



 

 




(1)Member
of Audit Committee
(2)Member
of Compensation Committee
(3)Member
of Nominating and Governance Committee 
 
  Other Management  

        Set forth below is information as of February 25, 2011, about the following members of senior management of Level 3
Communications, LLC. 
 






 













Name



 
 
Age 
 
Position 


 James Heard
 
 
48
 
President European Markets Group


 John F. Waters, Jr. 
 
 
45
 
President Operations, Chief Technology Officer


 Anthony S. Fogel
 
 
46
 
Chief Human Resources Officer


 Mark Martinet
 
 
44
 
Chief Information Officer



 
         Walter
Scott, Jr. has been the Chairman of the Board of the Company since September 1979, and a director of the Company since April 1964. Mr. Scott has been Chairman Emeritus of
Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc. ("PKS") since the split-off in 1998. Mr. Scott is also a director of PKS, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company
("MidAmerican"), and Valmont Industries, Inc. Mr. Scott was also previously a director of Burlington Resources Inc., Commonwealth Telephone Enterprises, Inc.
("Commonwealth") and RCN Corporation ("RCN"). 

        James
Q. Crowe has been the Chief Executive Officer of the Company since August 1997, and a director of the Company since June 1993. Mr. Crowe was also President of the Company
until July 2000. Mr. Crowe was President and Chief Executive Officer of MFS Communications Company, Inc. ("MFS") from June 1993 to June 1997. Mr. Crowe also served as Chairman of
the Board of WorldCom from January 1997 until July 1997, and as Chairman of the Board of MFS from 1992 through 1996. Mr. Crowe was also previously a director of Commonwealth and RCN. 

33






<A
NAME="page_di47001_1_34"> 









































Table of Contents 

        Jeff K. Storey has been the President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since December 2008. From December 2005 until May 2008, Mr. Storey, was
President—Leucadia Telecommunications Group of Leucadia National Corporation, where he directed and managed Leucadia's investments in telecommunications companies. Prior to that, beginning
in October 2002 Mr. Storey was President and Chief Executive Officer of WilTel Communications Group, LLC until its sale to the Company in December 2005. Prior to this position,
Mr. Storey was Senior Vice President—Chief Operations Officer, Network for Williams Communications, Inc., where he had responsibility for all areas of operations for the
company's communications network, including planning, engineering, field operations, service delivery and network management. 

        Charles
C. Miller, III has been Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of the Company since February 2001. Mr. Miller has also been a director of the Company since February
2009. Mr. Miller was previously a director from February 2001 until May 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Miller was President of Bellsouth International, a subsidiary of Bellsouth
Corporation from 1995 until December 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Miller held various senior level officer and management position at BellSouth from 1987 until 1995. 


        Sunit
S. Patel has been Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Vice President of the Company since March 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Patel was Chief Financial Officer from May 2003
and a Group Vice President of the Company from March 2003 to March 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Patel was Chief Financial Officer of Looking Glass Networks, Inc., a provider of metropolitan
fiber optic networks, from April 2000 until March 2003. Mr. Patel was Treasurer of WorldCom Inc. and MCIWorldcom Inc., each long
distance telephone services providers from 1997 to March 2000. From 1994 to 1997, Mr. Patel was Treasurer of MFS. 

        John
M. Ryan has been Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of the Company since February 2011. Mr. Ryan is responsible for Level 3's legal and
regulatory functions worldwide. Prior to his current position, Mr. Ryan was Senior Vice President and Assistant Chief Legal Officer of Level 3 Communications, LLC from March 2007,
responsible for the customer and vendor contracting groups and the public policy group. Mr. Ryan was a Senior Vice President within the Legal Department from June 2004, and was a Vice President
in the Legal Department from December 1999 through June 2004. Prior to December 1999, Mr. Ryan was a partner and associate at Fraser Stryker Law Firm in Omaha, where his practice focused on the
communications industry. 

        Andrew
Crouch has been the President Sales for Level 3 Communications, LLC since August 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Crouch was President of the Wholesale Markets Group
for Level 3 Communications, LLC from January 2008 until August 2010, after serving as Group Vice President of Sales for the Wholesale Markets Group beginning in April 2006. Prior to
that, Mr. Crouch served as the Senior Vice President of the Carrier Channel from January 2005 to April 2006, and Senior Vice President of the Enterprise Voice Services from January 2004 to
January 2005, all for Level 3 Communications, LLC. Mr. Crouch began his career at Level 3 Communications, LLC in November 2001 as the Senior Vice President of Sales
for the Cable and ISP Channel and held this position until December 2003. Before joining Level 3, Mr. Crouch served as the Deputy General Manager within the Corporate Clients Division at
British Telecom. He also served as the Vice President of Commercial Operations for Concert Communications, a joint venture between British Telecom and AT&T from January 2000 to October 2001. 


        Eric
J. Mortensen has been Senior Vice President and Controller of the Company since 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Mortensen was Vice President and Controller of the Company from 1999
to 2003 and was the Controller of the Company from 1997 to 1999. Prior to that, Mr. Mortensen was Controller and Assistant Controller of Kiewit Diversified Group for more than five years. 

        R.
Douglas Bradbury has been a director of the Company since February 2009. Mr. Bradbury is a private investor. Mr. Bradbury served as Vice Chairman of the Company from
2000 to 2003 and as 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Bradbury was previously a member of the Company's Board from 1997 to 2003. Prior to joining
Level 3, Mr. Bradbury was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MFS until its purchase by WorldCom, Inc. in 1996. He currently serves on the board of directors
of LodgeNet Interactive Corporation, a leading provider of media and connectivity solutions designed to meet the needs of hospitality, healthcare and other guest-based businesses. Mr. Bradbury
is a member of the Audit Committee. 

        Douglas
C. Eby has been a director of the Company since August 2007. Mr. Eby has been acting Chief Executive Officer of Realty Finance Corporation, a commercial real estate
specialty finance company since May 2010 and a general partner of OmniCapital Group LLC, a venture capital firm since January 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Eby was a private investor from
December 2009 to May 2010. Mr. Eby was previously chairman and CEO of TimePartners LLC, an investment advisory firm from 2004 until December 2009. Prior to that, from April 1997 until
September 2007, Mr. Eby was President of Torray LLC, a registered investment advisory firm, having joined Torray LLC in 1992. Mr. Eby is also a member of the Board of
Directors of Markel Corporation, a specialty insurance company and chairman of the board of directors of Realty Finance Corporation. Mr. Eby is also a past member of the Board of Trustees and
past Chairman of the Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Washington, DC and a past trustee of Suburban Hospital Healthcare System, a member of The Johns Hopkins Health System Corporation. Mr. Eby
is a member of the Audit Committee. 

        Admiral
James O. Ellis, Jr. U.S. Navy (ret.) has been a director of the Company since March 2005. Effective May 2005, Admiral Ellis became the president and chief executive officer of
the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations or INPO, a nonprofit corporation established by the nuclear utility industry in 1979 to promote the highest levels of safety and reliability in the operation
of nuclear electric generating plants. Admiral Ellis most recently served as Commander, U.S. Strategic Command in Omaha, Nebraska, before retiring in July 2004 after 35 years of service in the
U.S. Navy, as Commander of the Strategic Command. In his Naval career, he held numerous commands. A graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, he also holds M.S. degrees in Aerospace Engineering from the
Georgia Institute of Technology and in Aeronautical Systems from the University of West Florida. He served as a Naval aviator and was a graduate of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School. Admiral Ellis is
also a member of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, a global security company and Inmarsat PLC, an owner and operator of geostationary satellites from which a wide range of
voice and high-speed data services are provided. Admiral Ellis is the Chairman of the Nominating and Governance committee. 


        Richard
R. Jaros has been a director of the Company since June 1993 and served as President of the Company from 1996 to 1997. Mr. Jaros has been a private investor for more than
the past five years. Mr. Jaros served as Executive Vice President of the Company from 1993 to 1996 and Chief Financial Officer of the Company from 1995 to 1996. He also served as President and
Chief Operating Officer of CalEnergy from 1992 to 1993. Mr. Jaros was previously a director of Commonwealth, MidAmerican and RCN. Mr. Jaros is the Chairman of the Compensation Committee. 

        Robert
E. Julian has been a director of the Company since March 1998. Mr. Julian has been a private investor for more than the past five years. From 1992 to 1995 Mr. Julian
served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Julian is a member of the Audit Committee. 

        Michael
J. Mahoney has been a director of the Company since August 2007. Mr. Mahoney has been a private investor since March 2007. From 2000 until March 2007, Mr. Mahoney
was the president and chief executive officer of Commonwealth. Prior to that, from 1997 until 2000, Mr. Mahoney was president and chief operating officer of RCN. Mr. Mahoney also served
as president and chief operating officer of C-TEC Corporation from 1993 until 1997. Mr. Mahoney is a member of 

35




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



the
Board of Directors of FairPoint Communications, Inc. and the Board of Trustees of Wilkes University. Mr. Mahoney is a member of the Compensation Committee. 

        Rahul
N. Merchant has been a director of the Company since September 2009. Mr. Merchant has been a partner at Exigen Capital, a private equity firm based in New York City since
2008. From 2006 until 2008, Mr. Merchant was Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer and Member of the Executive Committee at Fannie Mae. In this role, he led and transformed
Technology and Operations groups. Prior to joining Fannie Mae, Mr. Merchant was Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer at Merrill Lynch & Co. In this role,
Mr. Merchant managed the global technology organization from 2000 until 2006. Mr. Merchant has also held senior leadership positions at Cooper Neff and Associates, Lehman Brothers, Sanwa
Financial Products and Dresdner Bank. Mr. Merchant serves as a member of the Board of Directors at Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) and Netuitive, Inc. He also serves on the board of
advisors to the American India Foundation. Mr. Merchant was previously a director of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Mr. Merchant is a member of the Audit Committee. 


        Arun
Netravali has been a director of the Company since April 2003. Since November 2004, Mr. Netravali has been the managing partner of OmniCapital Group LLC, a venture
capital firm. Mr. Netravali was a private investor from April 2003 until November 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Netravali was Chief Scientist for Lucent Technologies, working with academic
and investment communities to identify and implement important new networking technologies from January 2002 to April 2003. Prior to that position, Mr. Netravali was President of Bell Labs as
well as Lucent's Chief Technology Officer and Chief Network Architect from June 1999 to January 2002. Bell Labs serves as the research and development organization for Lucent Technologies.
Mr. Netravali is a director of LSI Corporation, a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies. Mr. Netravali is a member of the Compensation Committee. 

        John
T. Reed has been a director of the Company since March 2003. Mr. Reed has been a private investor since February 2005. Mr. Reed is also a Director of Investors Real
Estate Trust, a real estate investment trust. Mr. Reed is also Chairman of Boys Town, located in Boys Town, Nebraska. Mr. Reed was Chairman of HMG Properties, the real estate investment
banking joint venture of McCarthy Group, Inc. from 2000 until February 2005. Prior to that, he was Chairman of McCarthy & Co., the investment banking affiliate of McCarthy Group.
Prior to joining McCarthy Group in 1997, Mr. Reed spent 32 years with Arthur Andersen LLP. Mr. Reed was also previously a director of Bridges Investment Fund, Inc.,
a mutual fund and First National Nebraska, Inc. Mr. Reed is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominating and Governance Committee. 

        Michael
B. Yanney has been a director of the Company since March 1998. He has served as Chairman of the Board of The Burlington Capital Group, LLC (formerly known as America First
Companies L.L.C.) for more than the last five years. Mr. Yanney also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of The Burlington Capital Group, LLC. Mr. Yanney was
previously a director of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation and RCN. Mr. Yanney is a member of the Nominating and Governance Committee. 


        Dr. Albert
C. Yates has been a director of the Company since March 2005. Dr. Yates retired after 13 years as president of Colorado State University in Fort Collins,
Colorado in June 2003. He was also chancellor of the Colorado State University System until October 2003, and is a former member of the board of the Federal Reserve Board of Kansas
City-Denver Branch and the board of directors of First Interstate Bank and Molson Coors Brewing Company. He currently serves as a director of Guaranty Bancorp, a bank holding company that
operates 34 branches in Colorado through a single bank, Guaranty Bank and Trust Company, and StarTek, Inc., a leading provider of high value business process outsourcing services to the
communications industry. Dr. Yates is a member of the Compensation Committee. 

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        James
Heard has been the President of the European Markets Group since April 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Heard was Managing Director for the European Markets Group from March 2007 to
April 2008. From 1996 until 2007, Mr. Heard worked for British Telecommunications, in a number of senior management roles, including serving as the General Manager, Financial Services Group
within BT Global services. He also served as the Vice President of Commercial Operations, Global accounts for Concert Communications, a joint venture between British Telecom and AT&T from January 2000
to June 2002. Prior to British Telecommunications, Mr. Heard served as Regional Sales Manager for Olivetti UK from March 1990 until June 1996. 

        John
F. Waters, Jr. has been President Operations, Chief Technology Officer since January 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Waters was Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer
from January 2004 to January 2008. Prior to that, Mr. Waters was Group Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of the Company from February 2000 to January 2004. Prior to that,
Mr. Waters was Vice President, Engineering of the Company from November 1997 until February 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Waters was an executive staff member of MCI Communications from 1994
to November 1997. 

        Anthony
S. Fogel has been Chief Human Resources Officer since August 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Fogel was an independent consultant on human resources management issues from April
2010 until August 2010. Mr. Fogel was Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Administration at CareOne Management, LLC, a family owned senior health care facility operator from
July 2009 until April 2010. Prior to joining CareOne, Mr. Fogel was Chief Human Resources Officer at Marathon Asset Management LLP from 2007 until July 2009. Mr. Fogel was
Managing Director—Global
Head of Human Resources for Investment Management at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. from 2005 until 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Fogel was Managing Director—European Head of Human
Resources at Lehman Brothers from 2000 until 2005. 

        Mark
Martinet has been Chief Information Officer since December 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Martinet was Chief Information Officer and Chief Technology Officer for BT Business, a
part of BT Group plc. from September 2007 until December 2009. In this role, Mr. Martinet was responsible for improving cycle time, productivity and quality of information technology
deliveries. Prior to that, Mr. Martinet was a director of Strategy and Transformation for BT Group from 2004 until September 2007. Prior to joining BT Group, Mr. Martinet held various
information technology positions with Qwest Communications Corporation from 2000 until 2004. 

        At
our 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the term of office of all of our directors will expire. At each annual meeting of stockholders, successors to the directors whose term expires
at that annual meeting will be elected for a one-year term. Our officers are elected annually to serve until each successor is elected and qualified or until his or her death, resignation
or removal. 

        We
believe that the members of the Audit Committee are independent within the meaning of the listing standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC. The Board has determined that
Mr. John T. Reed, Chairman of the Audit Committee, qualifies as a "financial expert" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Board considered Mr. Reed's credentials and
financial background and found that he was qualified to serve as the "financial expert." 

 Our website  


        Our website is www.level3.com. We caution you that any information that is included in
our website is not part of this Form 10-K. 

 Code of Ethics  

        We have adopted a code of ethics that complies with the standards mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The complete code of
ethics is available on our website at www.level3.com. At any 

37




 


<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



time
that the code of ethics is not available on our website, we will provide a copy upon written request made to Investor Relations, Level 3 Communications, Inc., 1025 Eldorado Blvd.,
Broomfield, Colorado 80021. We caution you that any information that is included in our website is not part of this Form 10-K. If we amend the code of ethics, or grant any waiver
from a provision of the code of ethics that applies to our executive officers or directors, we will publicly disclose such amendment or waiver as required by applicable law, including by posting such
amendment or waiver on our website at www.level3.com or by filing a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC. 


 SEC Filings  

        We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. These filings are available to the
public on the Internet at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room, located at 100 F Street, N.E.
Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. 

        Our
Form 10-K and all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC are publicly available free of charge on the investor relations section of our
website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We caution you that the information on our website is not part of this or any other report we
file with, or furnish to, the SEC. 

 Section 16(a)—Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  

        To our knowledge, except as described below, no person that was a director, executive officer or beneficial owner of more than 10% of
the outstanding shares of our
common stock failed to timely file all reports required under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

        With
respect to one open market sale transaction to generate cash proceeds to pay withholding taxes due as a result of the lapsing of restrictions on transfer for previously issued
restricted stock units, as a result of a clerical error, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Sunit Patel, did not timely file a Form 4 to report that transaction. 

 Employees  

        As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 5,500 total employees. We believe that our success depends in large part on our
ability to attract and retain substantial numbers of qualified employees.  


<A
NAME="di47001_item_1a._risk_factors"> 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

        
Forward Looking Statements  

        We, or our representatives, from time to time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, either orally or in
writing, including without limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, information contained in other filings
with the SEC, press releases and other public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences with
investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and conferences may include forward-looking
statements. We use words like "plans," "estimates," "expects," "anticipates" or "believes" to identify forward-looking statements. 

        We
wish to ensure that all forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe
harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the
following discussion of certain 

38




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that this list of important factors may not be
exhaustive. We operate in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. 

        We
cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the effect, if any, of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may
cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results.
Further, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations. 

        For
more information about our results of operations and financial condition, you should see the discussion included under Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, appearing later in this Form 10-K. 

 Risks Related to our Business  

        
Communications Business  

        
Continued uncertainty in the global financial markets and the global economy may negatively affect our financial results.  

        Continued uncertainty in the global financial markets and economy may negatively affect our financial results. A prolonged period of
economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and exacerbate some of the other risk factors we have described below. Our customers may
defer or forego purchases of our services in response to tighter credit and negative financial news or reduce their demand for our services. Our customers may also not be able to obtain adequate
access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us or ultimately cause the customer to file for protection from creditors under applicable insolvency or bankruptcy laws.
If our customers are not able to make timely payments to us, our accounts receivable could increase. 


        In
addition, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected if as a result of economic conditions: 



•customers defer or forgo purchases of our services;   
•customers are unable to make timely payments to us;   
•the demand for, and prices of, our services are reduced as a result of actions by our competitors or otherwise;  
•key suppliers upon which we rely are unwilling or unable to provide us with the materials we need for our network on a
timely basis or on terms that we find acceptable; or   
•our financial counterparties, insurance providers or other contractual counterparties are unable to, or do not meet, their
contractual commitments to us. 


        
We need to not only increase but also maintain the network traffic and resulting revenue from the services that we offer to realize our targets for anticipated revenue
growth, cash flow and operating performance.  

        We must increase and maintain the network traffic and resulting revenue from our data, voice, content and infrastructure services at
acceptable margins in order to realize our targets for anticipated revenue growth, cash flow and operating performance. If: 



•we do not maintain or improve our current relationships with existing key customers; 

39










<A
NAME="page_dk47001_1_40"> 




































 
Table of Contents 



•we are not able to expand the available capacity on our network to meet our customers' demands in a timely manner;  
•we do not develop new large volume and enterprise customers; or   
•our customers determine to obtain these services from either their own network or from one of our competitors; 


we
may not be able to increase or maintain our revenue at acceptable margins, which would adversely affect our ability to become and/or remain profitable. 

        
Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to implement customer orders and to provide and bill for services.  

        Our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems. In certain cases, the development of
these business support systems is required to realize anticipated benefits from any acquisitions. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise and support from
third-party vendors. Following the development of the business support systems, the data migration regarding network and circuit inventory must be completed for the full benefit of the systems to be
realized. Business support systems are needed for: 



•quoting, accepting and inputting customer orders for services;   
•provisioning, installing and delivering services;   
•providing customers with direct access to our information systems so that they can manage the services that they purchase
from us, generally through web-based customer portals; and   
•billing for services. 


        Because
our business provides for continued rapid growth in the number of customers that we serve, the volume of services offered as well as the integration of any acquired companies'
business support systems, there is a need to continue to develop our business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed milestone dates. The failure to continue to develop effective
unified business support systems or complete the data migration regarding network and circuit inventory into these systems could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business
plans, realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions and meet our financial goals and objectives. 

        
We may lose customers if we experience system failures that significantly disrupt the availability and quality of the services that we provide. System failures may also
cause interruptions to service delivery and the completion of other corporate functions.  

        Our operations depend on our ability to limit and mitigate interruptions or degradation in service for customers. Interruptions in
service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In addition, because many
of our services are critical to the businesses of many of our customers, any significant interruption or degradation in service could result in lost profits or other losses to customers. Although we
generally limit our liability for service failures in our service agreements to limited service credits (generally in the form of free service for a short period of time) and generally exclude any
liability for "consequential" damages such as lost profits, a court might not enforce these limitations on liability, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide our
customers with committed service levels. If we are unable to meet these service level commitments, we may be obligated to provide service credits or other compensation to our customers, which could
negatively affect our operating results. 

40




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        The
failure of any equipment or facility on our network, including our network operations control centers and network data storage locations, could result in the interruption of customer
service and other corporate functions until necessary repairs are effected or replacement equipment is installed. In addition, our business continuity plans may not be adequate to address a particular
failure that we experience. Delays, errors, network equipment or network facility failures, including with respect to our network operations control centers and network data storage locations, could
also result from natural disasters (including natural disasters that may increase in frequency as a result of the effects of climate change), disease, accidents, terrorist acts, power losses, security
breaches, vandalism or other illegal acts, computer viruses, or other causes. Our business could be significantly hurt from these delays, errors, failures or faults including as a result
of: 



•service interruptions;   
•exposure to customer liability;   
•the inability to install new service;   
•the unavailability of employees necessary to provide services;   
•the delay in the completion of other corporate functions such as issuing bills and the preparation of financial
statements; or   
•the need for expensive modifications to our systems and infrastructure. 


        
Failure to develop and introduce new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry.  

        We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our communications network. These new
services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace, address the changing communications needs of our existing customers and to compete for additional
customers. 

        In
certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the
introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on reaching mutually acceptable terms with vendors and on vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. 

        In
addition, new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service
offerings and we may be required to impair any assets or technology used to develop or offer those services. 

        If
we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. 

        
Our future growth depends upon the continued development and expansion of the Internet as a communications medium and marketplace for the distribution and consumption of
data and video by businesses, consumers and governments.  

        Achieving the anticipated benefits of our business operations will depend in part upon the continued development and expansion of the
Internet as a communications medium and marketplace for the distribution and consumption of data and video by businesses, consumers and governments. If the use of the Internet for these purposes does
not grow and expand at the rate that we anticipated or is restricted by such things as: 



•future regulation;   
•actions by ISPs or the owners of access networks that restrict us from delivering our customer's traffic to the users of
those networks; 

41




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•a lack of anticipated technology innovation and adoption; or   
•a lack of continued broadband penetration both in the United States and elsewhere; 


we
could experience material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 

        
There is no guarantee that we will be successful in increasing sales of our content distribution service offering.  


        As we believe that one of the largest sources of future incremental demand for our communications services will be derived from
customers that are seeking to distribute their video, feature rich content or applications over the Internet, we offer a variety of content distribution network, or CDN, and related services. There
are many difficulties that we may encounter in selling these services, including customer support system development issues, intellectual property matters, technological issues, increasing capacity on
our network to meet our customers' demands in a timely manner, developmental constraints and other problems that we may not anticipate. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in generating
significant revenues from our CDN service offering. 

        
Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services or subject us to expensive intellectual
property litigation.  

        If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services was determined by a court to infringe a patent held by another entity
that is unwilling to grant us a license on terms acceptable to us, we could be precluded by a court order from using that technology and we would likely be required to pay a significant monetary
damages award to the patent holder. The successful enforcement of these patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for these patents on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the
relevant technology and offering services incorporating the technology. In the event that a claim of infringement was brought against us based on the use of our technology or against our customers
based on their use of our services for which we are obligated to indemnify, we could be subject to litigation to determine whether such use or sale is, in fact, infringing. This litigation could be
expensive and distracting, regardless of the outcome of the suit. 

        While
our own patent portfolio may deter other operating companies from bringing such actions, patent infringement claims are increasingly being asserted by patent holding companies,
which do not use technology and whose sole business is to enforce patents against operators, such as us, for monetary gain. Because such patent holding companies, commonly referred to as patent
"trolls," do not provide services or use technology, the assertion of our own patents by way of counter-claim would be largely ineffective. We have already been the subject of
time-consuming and expensive patent litigation brought by certain patent holding companies and we can reasonably expect that we will face further claims in the future, particularly if
legislation now discussed in Congress is not enacted in a way that will decrease the number and frequency of claims by patent trolls. 

        
Our consolidated revenue is concentrated in a limited number of communications customers.  

        A significant portion of our consolidated revenue is concentrated among a limited number of communications customers. For the year
ended December 31, 2010, our top ten communications customers represented approximately 27% of our total consolidated revenue. If we lost one or more of our top five communications customers,
or, if one or more of these major customers significantly decreased orders for our services, our business would be materially and adversely affected. 

42




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



        
During our communications business operating history we have generated substantial net operating losses, and we expect to continue to generate net operating losses.  

        Our expenditures combined with non-cash compensation expense as well as depreciation and amortization expense could result
in substantial net losses for the near future. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we incurred net losses of approximately $622 million and
$618 million, respectively. We expect to continue to experience net losses, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Continued net losses could limit our
ability to obtain the cash needed to expand our network, make interest and principal payments on our debt, or fund other business needs. 

        We
will need to continue to expand and adapt our network in order to remain competitive, which may require significant additional funding. Additional expansion and adaptations of our
communications network's electronic and software components will be necessary in order to respond to: 



•growing number of customers;   
•the development and launching of new services;   
•increased demands by customers to transmit larger amounts of data;   
•changes in customers' service requirements;   
•technological advances by competitors; and   
•governmental regulations. 


        Future
expansion or adaptation of our network will require substantial additional financial, operational and managerial resources, which may not be available at the time. If we are
unable to expand or adapt our network to respond to these developments on a timely basis and at a commercially reasonable cost, our business will be materially adversely affected. 

        
The market prices for certain of our communications services have decreased in the past and may decrease in the future, resulting in lower revenue than we anticipate.  


        Over the past few years, the market prices for certain of our communications services have decreased. These decreases resulted from
downward market pressure and other factors including: 



•technological changes and network expansions which have resulted in increased transmission capacity available for sale by
us and by our competitors;   
•some of our customer agreements contain volume based pricing or other contractually agreed-upon decreases in
prices during the term of the respective agreements; and   
•some of our competitors have been willing to accept smaller operating margins in the short term in an attempt to increase
long-term revenues. 


        In
order to retain customers and revenue, we often must reduce prices in response to market conditions and trends. As our prices for some of our communications services decrease, our
operating results may suffer unless we are able to either reduce our operating expenses or increase traffic volume from which we can derive additional revenue. 


        We
also expect revenue from our managed modem services to continue to decline primarily as a result of end users migrating to broadband services. 

43




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



        
The need to obtain additional capacity for our network from other providers increases our costs. In addition, the need to interconnect our network to networks that are
controlled by others could increase our costs.  

        We use network resources owned by other companies for portions of our network. We obtain the right to use such network portions,
including both telecommunications capacity and rights to use dark fiber, through operating leases and IRU agreements. In several of those agreements, the counter party is responsible for network
maintenance and repair. If a counter party to a lease or IRU suffers financial distress or bankruptcy, we may not be able to enforce our rights to use these network assets or, even if we could
continue to use these network assets, we could incur material expenses related to maintenance and repair. We could also incur material expenses if we were required to locate alternative network
assets. We may not be successful in obtaining reasonable alternative network assets if needed. Failure to obtain usage of alternative network assets, if necessary, could have a material adverse effect
on our ability to carry on business operations. In addition, some of our agreements with other providers require the payment of amounts for services whether or not those services are used. 

        In
the normal course of business, we need to enter into interconnection agreements with many domestic and foreign local telephone companies as well as the owners of networks that our
customers desire to access in order to deliver their services. We are not always able to secure these interconnection agreements on favorable terms. Costs of obtaining service from other
communications carriers comprise a significant proportion of the operating expenses of long distance carriers. Similarly, a large proportion of the costs of providing international service consists of
payments to other carriers. Changes in regulation, particularly the regulation of local and international telecommunication carriers and local access network owners, could indirectly, but
significantly, affect our competitive position. These changes could increase or decrease the costs of providing our services. 

        
We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect our business.  


        We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable,
sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We have experienced significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are
seeking. As a result of this significant competition, we may experience a shortage of qualified personnel. 

        Our
businesses are managed by a small number of key executive officers, including James Q. Crowe, Chief Executive Officer. The loss of any of these key executive officers could
have a material adverse effect on our business. 

        
We must obtain and maintain permits and rights-of-way to operate our network.  

        If we are unable, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, to obtain and maintain the franchises, permits and
rights-of-way needed to expand and operate our network, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cancellation or non-renewal of the
franchises, permits or rights-of-way that are obtained could materially adversely affect our business. Our communications operating subsidiaries are defendants in several
lawsuits that, among other things, challenge the subsidiaries' use of rights-of-way. The plaintiffs have sought to have these lawsuits certified as class actions. It is
possible that additional suits challenging use of our rights-of-way will be filed and that those plaintiffs also may seek class certification. The outcome of such litigation
may increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results. 

44




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



        
Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and additional costs.  

        Our business is dependent on third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related
components as well as providers of network colocation facilities that are integrated into our network, some of which are critical to the operation of our business. If any of these critical
relationships is terminated, a supplier either exits or curtails its business as a result of the current economic conditions, a supplier fails to provide critical services or equipment, or the
supplier is forced to stop providing services due to legal constraints, such as patent infringement, and we are unable to reach suitable alternative arrangements quickly, we may experience significant
additional costs or we may not be able to provide certain services to customers. If that happens, our business could be materially adversely affected. 

        
ILECs may not provide us local access services at prices that allow us to effectively compete.  

        We acquire a significant portion of our local access services, the connection between our owned network and the customer premises, from
incumbent local exchange carriers or ILECs. The ILECs compete directly with our business and may have a tendency to favor themselves and their affiliates to our detriment. Network access represents a
very large portion of our
total costs and if we face less favorable pricing and provisioning timeframes, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to the ILECs. 

        
We may be liable for the information that content owners or distributors distribute over our network.  

        The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is
still unsettled. While we disclaim any liability for third party content in our services agreements, we may become subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network, even
though such content is owned or distributed by our customers or a customer of our customers. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material distributed using our network was
inaccurate, offensive, or violated the law or the rights of others. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement. In addition, the law remains
unclear over whether content may be distributed from one jurisdiction, where the content is legal, into another jurisdiction, where it is not. Companies operating private networks have been sued in
the past, sometimes successfully, based on the nature of material distributed, even if the content is not owned by the network operator and the network operator has no knowledge of the content or its
legality. It is not practical for us to monitor all of the content which is distributed using our network. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks, or are required to
defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results could be negatively affected. 

        
Our financial condition and growth depends upon the successful integration of acquired businesses. We may not be able to efficiently and effectively integrate acquired
operations, and thus may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions.  

        Achieving the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions depends in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and
effective manner. We may acquire businesses in accordance with our business strategy. The integration of any acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including, but not limited
to: 



•demands on management related to any significant increase in size after the acquisition;   
•the disruption of ongoing business and the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations to
management of integration activities;   
•failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; 

45




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•unanticipated impediments in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books
and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and
policies;   
•loss of customers or the failure of customers to order incremental services that we expect them to order;  
•failure to provision services that are ordered by customers during the integration period;   
•higher integration costs than anticipated; and   
•difficulties in the assimilation and retention of highly qualified, experienced employees, many of whom may be
geographically dispersed. 


        Successful
integration of acquired businesses or operations depends on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service
offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, obtain better terms from our vendors due to increased buying power, and eliminate redundant and excess costs to fully realize the expected synergies.
Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations and systems which may not be fully
compatible, we may not be able to achieve the financial strength and growth we anticipate from the acquisitions. 

        We
cannot be certain that we will realize our anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, or that we will be able to efficiently and effectively integrate acquired operations as planned.
If we fail to integrate the acquired businesses and operations efficiently and effectively or fail to realize the benefits we anticipate, we would be likely to experience material adverse effects on
our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 

        
We are subject to significant regulation that could change in an adverse manner.  

        Communications services are subject to significant regulation at the federal, state, local and international levels. These regulations
affect our business and our existing and potential competitors. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals (including approvals relating to acquisitions or financing activities), completing
interconnection agreements with other carriers, or the enactment of new and adverse regulations or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, future
legislative, judicial and regulatory agency actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

        Federal
legislation provides for a significant deregulation of the U.S. telecommunications industry, including the local exchange, long distance and cable television industries. This
legislation remains subject to judicial review and additional Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, rulemaking. As a result, we cannot predict the legislation's effect on our future operations.
Many regulatory actions are under way or are being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding important issues. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

        
Changes in regulations affecting commercial power providers may increase our costs.  

        In the normal course of business, we need to enter into agreements with many providers of commercial power for our office, network and
Gateway facilities. Costs of obtaining commercial power can comprise a significant component of our operating expenses. Changes in regulations that affect commercial power providers, particularly
regulations related to the control of greenhouse gas emissions or other climate change related matters, could affect the costs of commercial power, which may increase the costs of providing our
services and may adversely affect our operating results. 

46






<A
NAME="page_dm47001_1_47"> 



































  
Table of Contents 

        
The laws in certain countries currently do not permit us to offer services directly in those countries.  

        Ownership of telecommunications facilities that originate or terminate traffic in certain countries is currently limited to nationals
of those countries. This restriction hinders our entry into those markets. 

        
Potential regulation of Internet service providers in the United States could adversely affect our operations.  


        The FCC has, to date, treated Internet service providers as enhanced service providers. In addition, Congress has, to date, not sought
to heavily regulate the provision of IP-based services. Both Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that involve greater regulation of IP-based service providers.
Depending on the content and scope of any regulations, the imposition of such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and the profitability of our services. 

        
The communications industry is highly competitive with participants that have greater resources and a greater number of existing customers.  


        The communications industry is highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have financial, personnel, marketing
and other resources significantly greater than ours. Many of these competitors have the added competitive advantage of a larger existing customer base. In addition, significant new competition could
arise as a result of: 



•the consolidation in the industry;   
•allowing foreign carriers to more extensively compete in the U.S. market;   
•further technological advances; and   
•further deregulation and other regulatory initiatives. 


        If
we are unable to compete successfully, our business could be significantly affected. 

        
Rapid technological changes can lead to further competition.  

        The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. In addition, the introduction of new services or
technologies, as well as the further development of existing services and technologies, may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those that we provide. As a result,
our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to the communications industry. These new entrants may not be burdened by an installed base of outdated equipment or obsolete
technology. Our future success depends, in part, on
our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. 


        
We may be unable to successfully identify, manage and assimilate future acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances, which could adversely affect our results of
operations.  

        We continually evaluate potential investments and strategic opportunities to expand our network, enhance connectivity and add traffic
to our network. In the future, we may seek additional investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements, which may expose us to risks such as: 



•the difficulty of identifying appropriate investments, strategic allies or opportunities on terms acceptable to us;  
•the possibility that senior management may be required to spend considerable time negotiating agreements and monitoring
these arrangements;   
•potential regulatory issues applicable to the telecommunications business; 

47




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•the loss or reduction in value of the capital investment;   
•our inability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by these arrangements; and   
•the possibility of insolvency of a strategic ally. 


        There
can be no assurance that we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered with these investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements. 

        
Other Operations  

        
Environmental liabilities from our historical operations could be material.  

        There could be environmental liabilities arising from historical operations of our predecessors, for which we may be liable. Our
operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, human health and safety. These laws and regulations include those concerning the
use and management of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. We have made and will continue to make significant expenditures relating to our environmental compliance
obligations. Despite our best efforts, we may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements. 

        In
connection with certain historical operations, we have responded to or been notified of potential environmental liability at approximately 150 properties as of February 15,
2011. We are engaged in addressing or have liquidated environmental liabilities at 74 of those properties. Of these: (a) we have formal commitments or other potential future costs at 15 sites;
(b) there are 10 sites with minimal future costs; (c) there are 14 sites with unknown future costs and (d) there are 35 sites with no likely future costs. The remaining properties
have been dormant for several years. We could be held liable, jointly or severally, and without regard to fault, for such investigation and remediation. The discovery of additional environmental
liabilities related to historical operations or changes in existing environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

        
Potential liabilities and claims arising from coal operations could be significant.  

        Our coal operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that impose stringent operational, maintenance, financial assurance,
environmental compliance, reclamation, restoration and closure requirements. These requirements include those governing air and water emissions, waste disposal, worker health and safety, benefits for
current and retired coal miners, and other general permitting and licensing requirements. Despite our best efforts, we may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements. Liabilities
or claims associated with this non-compliance could require us to incur material costs or suspend production. Mine reclamation costs that exceed reserves for these matters also could
require us to incur material costs. 

        
Increased regulation of greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions may adversely affect demand for coal.  

        Present and proposed regulation of GHG emissions on the state, regional, national, and international level has typically included
requirements applicable to the utility sector and coal-fired power plants. Therefore, such regulation could adversely affect the demand for coal in coming years, particularly from our
utility customers. This could have an adverse effect on our operating results. 


 General  

        
Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms (or at all),
and have other adverse effects on us.  

        Disruptions in the commercial credit markets could result in a tightening of credit markets. The effects of recent credit market
disruptions were widespread, and it is impossible to predict whether the 

48




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



improvement
in the global credit markets will continue. As a result of credit market turmoil, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on
favorable terms (or at all), which could affect our strategic operations and our financial performance and force modifications to our operations. 


        
If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of these agreements, and this could result in
an acceleration of payment of funds that have been borrowed.  

        If we were unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in any of our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms
of those agreements. As a result, borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of
these events occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to make necessary payments to the lenders or that we would be able to find alternative financing. Even if we were able to obtain
alternative financing, there can be no assurance that it would be on terms that are acceptable. 

        
If we experience a change in control or certain other events, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations to repurchase our outstanding notes as required under our
outstanding debt agreements.  

        Upon the occurrence of certain events defined in the various debt agreements relating to our outstanding debt, we are required to make
an offer to purchase all of our outstanding notes at a purchase price generally equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon (if any). In addition, to
the extent that we are required to make an offer to purchase one of the outstanding issues of our notes, the debt agreements relating to our other issues of notes may require us to repurchase that
other debt upon a change in control or termination of trading. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the purchase price for all the notes tendered by holders seeking to accept the offer to purchase. 


        
We have substantial debt, which may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage.  

        Our substantial debt may have important consequences, including the following: 



•the ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments and capital or other
expenditures could be impaired or financing may not be available on acceptable terms;   
•a substantial portion of our cash flows will be used to make principal and interest payments on outstanding debt, reducing
the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities;   
•a substantial decrease in cash flows from operating activities or an increase in expenses could make it difficult to meet
debt service requirements and force modifications to operations;   
•we have more debt than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and  
•substantial debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. 


        We
had substantial deficiencies of earnings to cover fixed charges of approximately $713 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, approximately
$617 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, approximately $264 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, approximately $1.1 billion for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and approximately $742 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. 

49




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        
We may not be able to repay our existing debt; failure to do so or refinance the debt could prevent us from implementing our strategy and realizing anticipated profits.  

        If we were unable to refinance our debt or to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, our ability to operate our business would
be impaired. As of December 31, 2010, aggregate future maturities of our long-term debt, capital leases and our commercial mortgage approximated $6.641 billion (after taking
into account the issuance of the Company's 11.875% Senior Notes due 2019 issued in January 2011, the retirement of the Company's 51/4% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 and 9%
Convertible Senior Discount Notes due 2013 as well as excluding debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments). Of this amount, $4 million is due to mature in 2011, approximately
$299 million is due to mature in 2012 and approximately $405 million is due to mature in 2013, in each case excluding debt discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments. 


        Our
ability to make interest and principal payments on our debt and borrow additional funds on favorable terms depends on the future performance of the business. If we do not have enough
cash flow in the future to make interest or principal payments on our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a part of our debt or to raise additional capital. We cannot be sure that we will be
able to refinance our debt or raise additional capital on acceptable terms. 

        
Restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements limit our ability to conduct our business and could prevent us from obtaining needed funds in the future.  


        Our debt and financing arrangements contain a number of significant limitations that restrict our ability to, among other
things: 



•borrow additional money or issue guarantees;   
•pay dividends or other distributions to stockholders;   
•make investments;   
•create liens on assets;   
•sell assets;   
•enter into sale-leaseback transactions;   
•enter into transactions with affiliates; and   
•engage in mergers or consolidations. 


        
The unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  

        Our revenue and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside
of our control and any of which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. The primary factors, among other things, that may affect our quarterly results include the
following: 



•the timing of costs associated with the operation of our business and integration activities with respect to any completed
acquisitions;   
•demand for communications services;   
•loss of customers or the ability to attract new customers;   
•changes in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;   
•costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses;   
•changes in regulatory rulings; and 

50




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•general economic conditions as well as those specific to the communications and related industries. 


        A
delay in generating revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. It is possible that
in some future quarters our results may be below analysts and investors expectations. In these circumstances, the price of our common stock will likely decrease. 

        
If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock, we may be unable to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes.  

        As of December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $5.9 billion for U.S. federal income
tax purposes. If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock that result in a cumulative ownership change of more than 50 percentage points by 5-percent
stockholders over a three-year period as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and applicable regulations, annual limitations
would be imposed with respect to our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry forwards and certain current deductions against any taxable income we achieve in future periods. 

        We
have entered into transactions over the applicable three year period that, when combined with other changes in ownership that are outside of our control, have resulted in cumulative
changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Additional transactions that we enter into, as well as transactions by existing 5% stockholders and transactions by holders that become new 5%
stockholders that we do not participate in, could cause us to incur a 50 percentage point ownership change by 5% stockholders and, if we trigger the above noted Code imposed limitations, such
transactions would prevent us from fully utilizing net operating loss carry forwards and certain current deductions to reduce income taxes. 

        
Increased scrutiny of financial disclosure, particularly in the telecommunications industry in which we operate, could adversely affect investor confidence, and any
restatement of earnings could increase litigation risks and limit our ability to access the capital markets.  

        Congress, the SEC, other regulatory authorities and the media are intensely scrutinizing a number of financial reporting issues and
practices. If we were required to restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles or as a result of other
factors or errors, that restatement could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or the trading price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting has also
resulted in an increase in litigation. There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our securities. 

        
Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business.  

        There can be no assurance that there will not be future terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks
or armed conflicts may directly affect our physical facilities or those of our customers. These events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the
U.S. and world financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our business. 

51




 

<A
HREF="#bg47001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



        
Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect the business.  

        We have operations and investments outside of the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other
countries, that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: 



•general economic, social and political conditions;   
•the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;  
•tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S.;   
•foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our
international assets and investments;   
•foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other
restrictions;   
•difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and
operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines;   
•difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and  
•changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. 


        
Additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders.  

        We may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity,
including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our
existing stockholders would be reduced. 

        
Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws could limit the share price and delay a change of management.  

        Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent
a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. These provisions, among other things: 



•prohibit stockholder action by written consent in place of a meeting;   
•limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;   
•limit the right of stockholders to present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of
stockholders; and   
•authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of
stockholders. 


        In
addition, the terms of most of our long term debt require that upon a "change in control," as defined in the agreements that contain the terms and conditions of the long term debt, we
make an offer to purchase the outstanding long term debt at either 100% or 101% of the aggregate principal amount of that long term debt. 

52






<A
NAME="page_do47001_1_53"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

        These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of
the holders of our common stock to change management. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. 

        
If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise
future capital.  

        We cannot predict what effect, if any, future issuances by us of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. In
addition, shares of our common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if certain
large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market
as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital
markets. 

        
The market price of our common stock has been volatile and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors.  

        The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may
fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: 



•the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock;   
•quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results;   
•changes in estimated earnings by securities analysts;   
•market conditions in the communications and information services industries;   
•announcement and performance by competitors;   
•regulatory actions; and   
•general economic conditions. 


        In
addition, in recent months the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Those market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the
market price or liquidity of our common stock.  

<A
NAME="do47001_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B