Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”Part IITEM 1.  BUSINESSIntroductionWe are an international facilities-based provider of a broad range of integrated communications services. A facilities-based provider is a provider that owns or leases a substantial portion of the plant, property and equipment necessary to provide its services. We have created our international communications network by constructing our own assets and through a combination of purchasing other companies and purchasing or leasing facilities from others. We designed our network to provide communications services that employ and take advantage of rapidly improving underlying optical, Internet Protocol, computing and storage technologies.Our company was incorporated as Peter Kiewit Sons’, Inc. in Delaware in 1941 to continue a construction business founded in Omaha, Nebraska in 1884. In subsequent years, we invested a portion of the cash flow generated by our construction activities in a variety of other businesses, including, among other things, the communications business. In 1998, our historical construction business was split off from the remainder of our operations. In conjunction with the split-off, we changed our name to “Level 3  4Table of ContentsCommunications, Inc.,” and the entity that was split-off and held the prior construction business was named “Peter Kiewit Sons’, Inc.” We sold various businesses subsequent to the split-off, including our coal mining business in November 2011, as part of our long-term strategy to focus on core communications business operations. In October 2011, we acquired Global Crossing Limited and in October 2014 we acquired tw telecom inc.  The combined results of operations of Level 3 with companies that we have acquired have been included in our consolidated results of operations since the respective closing date of the acquisition. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 13,500 total employees. We believe that our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees.We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. These filings are available to the public on the Internet at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room, located at 100 F Street, N.E. Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Our Form 10-K and all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC are publicly available free of charge on the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Our website is www.level3.com. We caution you that the information on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.Business Overview and StrategyLevel 3’s vision is to be the trusted connection to the networked world.  We seek to achieve this vision by focusing on:•maximizing the value of our network for our customers by expanding the breadth and depth of our local to global network, and connecting our customers to their digital ecosystem of data and applications;•delivering an exceptional and consistent customer experience by innovating to improve the efficiency and scalability of our operating platform,; and•generating profitable growth by expanding our enterprise customer base and layering value-added services onto existing network and operational capabilities.We strive to create a culture and business environment that makes it easy for customers to do business with us, and providing high-performing, reliable and secure services on our local-to-global network with superior price value. We focus on operational excellence to streamline our systems and business processes to deliver a superior customer experience, and to reduce overhead costs and transactional costs for ourselves and for our customers.We believe that we can be successful by making our customers the focal point of all we do.  Our value proposition is structured to be fully aligned with helping our customers meet their growth, efficiency and security business challenges both today and in the future and across the globe wherever our services are available.  We believe that advances in optical and Internet Protocol, or IP, technologies have facilitated, and will continue to facilitate, decreases in unit costs for communications service providers that are able to most effectively take advantage of these technology advances. We believe that, over time, rapidly improving technologies and high demand elasticity will continue to drive this market dynamic.Enterprises are increasingly moving their content and applications to third party providers of on-demand server and storage resources to reduce the costs and complexity of their information technology,  5Table of Contentsor IT, operations. Since these server and storage resources can be offsite in any location and are often virtualized (as opposed to residing on dedicated hardware in a known location) they are referred to as services “in the Cloud.” We believe that this migration of enterprise data and applications to the Cloud will drive increased demand for our high-performing, reliable and secure network services.Today’s market drivers can be broken into three categories as they pertain to our core business strategy:•Growth.  We expect digital data creation and the associated demand for bandwidth to keep growing, as business relationships and supply chains become increasingly digital, and end users increasingly expect to be able to access their data and applications anytime and anywhere. Cloud application adoption continues to grow for all businesses, especially our enterprise customers.  Mobility and Internet connected device proliferation continue to increase the rate at which content - especially video - is consumed, which in turn results in increased demand for higher bandwidth to enable that delivery and consumption.  Globalization trends continue as customers look for growth from emerging markets, particularly with respect to enterprise customers.  Additional opportunities for growth are present as a result of changing regulatory requirements in industries such as healthcare, consumer privacy, and financial services.•Efficiency.  As traffic volumes grow, our customers are not only under pressure to keep up with this growth but also to do so more and more efficiently. Accordingly, our product and technology teams take advantage of the scale and capabilities of our network and continuously innovate to deliver cost-effective services that meet customer needs. •Security.  Cyber threats continue to escalate, which affects both us and our customers.  As more enterprise customer data and applications move to the Cloud, maintaining a secure network and collection of systems and processes is more important than ever.Rapid technology innovation in Internet Protocol and optical networking technologies has resulted in improvement in the functionality of applications supported by these technologies. We believe that this rapid innovation will continue well into the future across a number of different aspects of the communications marketplace.We believe that decreases in communications services costs and prices enable the development of new bandwidth intensive applications, which, over time, result in even more significant increases in bandwidth demand. In addition, we believe that communications services are direct substitutes for other existing modes of information distribution from sources such as traditional broadcast entertainment as well as distribution of software, audio and video content using physical media delivered through physical transportation systems. An example of this dynamic is the use of the Internet for the distribution of video. We believe that as communications services improve more rapidly than traditional content distribution systems, demand for Internet delivered video will continue to grow rapidly. We also believe that high elasticity of demand for both new applications and the substitution for existing distribution systems will continue for the foreseeable future. We also believe that there are significant implications that result from these market dynamics. First, given the rapid rate of improvement in optical and Internet Protocol technologies, communications service providers that are most effective at rapidly deploying new services that take advantage of these technologies will have an inherent cost and service advantage over companies that are less effective at deploying new services that use these technologies. In addition, given the consolidation in the number of local access providers (that is, the providers of connections from intercity networks to traffic aggregation points or end user locations), communications service providers that have ownership of local and/or metropolitan network facilities will have an inherent cost and service advantage over companies that do not have ownership over these types of assets. With respect to the migration to Cloud services, this  6Table of Contentsmarket dynamic creates opportunities for us to provide secure and high performance network connections to our enterprise customers, enabling their employees to connect seamlessly and efficiently to their content and applications in the Cloud.In view of these market and technology opportunities, we seek to serve business customers by using a customer-first focus and providing a broad range of communications services over our advanced and extensive fiber optic network. With our network’s extensive geographic reach and deep reach into major metropolitan areas of the United States, Europe and Latin America, we are positioned to provide end-to-end services for business customers entirely on our own facilities across multiple continents.We have and will continually expand our fiber optic network to new locations where the demands of our customers and potential customers justify the upfront costs of expansion. This allows us to provide an end-to-end connection for the customer across our own fiber optic network, which is more secure and efficient and allows us to deliver a superior customer experience. Today and for the foreseeable future, we will need to connect to some locations using the networks of other carriers. We manage these relationships with other carriers to make the interconnection as efficient and effective as possible. We seek to minimize the need for these “off network” connections by targeting customers whose needs can be met primarily over our network and by building our network to as many high-traffic locations as possible.Our fiber optic network has extensive reach across North America, Europe and Latin America. Our network reaches not only hundreds of cities (we refer to the part of our network connecting the larger cities as our “intercity” network) but also includes fiber optic routes around the various parts of the larger metropolitan areas (we refer to this part of our network as our “metropolitan” or “metro” networks), which allows us to connect directly with wholesale customers in major traffic aggregation centers (such as central offices of local exchange carriers) and with many medium and large enterprise customers at their offices and data centers. In addition, the fact that our metro networks have significant reach throughout major metropolitan areas means that we can make relatively short network extensions to reach customer locations that our network does not currently reach.To connect our networks in North America, Europe and Latin America, as well as to connect our network to cities in other parts of the world, we own several undersea cables and have purchased capacity on cables owned by others. Since undersea cables require very large upfront investment and have very large capacity compared to the needs of any one carrier, they typically are either owned by a consortia of carriers or are financed significantly by selling a large amount of capacity to other carriers either before the cable is built or shortly thereafter. We historically have been active both in building undersea cables and in buying capacity from others. Today we own more than 33,000 route miles of undersea fiber optic cables around the world. In addition, as we have points of presence (PoPs) in Asia, Africa and Australia, we have also purchased capacity on others’ undersea cables to allow us to offer services in those regions despite the fact that we do not have extensive fiber optic networks of our own in these regions. This is important to our ability to handle the global needs of our multinational customers. For more information about our network, see Item 1, “Business - Our Communication Network” below.For larger customers, specialized real estate is often required to house the equipment that we and the customer use to exchange traffic. This space requires a concentrated amount of electric power and cooling, as well as server racks, fiber optic cables and other technical equipment. Such specialized real estate, depending upon its nature and the type of companies that use it, is referred to variously as “colocation” or “data center” space. For interconnection among wholesale carriers and some of the largest enterprise customers, we also use real estate owned by third parties. We own or lease more than 250 colocation facilities in North America, approximately 100 colocation facilities in Europe, and approximately 15 colocation facilities in Latin America. In addition, we operate approximately 20 data center facilities in Latin America, Europe and North America.  7Table of ContentsOur business includes voice services. Historically, end-user voice services were provided over a network of local exchange carriers whose copper wire networks were dedicated to that service. Today, voice services can be carried over the Internet as a data service. This type of voice service usually is referred to as “voice over Internet Protocol,” or “VoIP”. Since many calls include a connection to the traditional voice network on one end and a VoIP connection on the other, early in our existence we became deeply involved in managing connections between VoIP customers and those on the traditional public switched telephone network. This involves not only developing and managing equipment and software specialized for that purpose but also developing physical connections of our Internet Protocol network with the traditional networks of the various local exchange carriers. Additionally, we have also physically interconnected our IP network with the networks of many cellular telephone carriers. This enables us to provide what we believe is a more comprehensive service than most other carriers can provide to handle customers’ needs for voice connections in today’s changing communications environment. Our services that manage the initiation or termination of customers’ voice calls generally are referred to as “local voice” services. Our voice services also include our comprehensive suite of audio, web and video collaboration services.We also provide services that handle the termination of large volumes of telephone calls on behalf of other carriers. We refer to these as “wholesale voice” services. These services are provided in a very competitive environment in which many carriers participate and the customer typically uses automated systems to choose the least expensive way to terminate traffic to each city around the world on a minute-by-minute basis. Once our network is chosen to terminate calls to a given location, large numbers of calls are carried simultaneously over our network until the customer decides to switch the traffic to another carrier.We provide specialized communications services for companies that distribute video or other digitized content across the Internet. Because the amount of bandwidth required by such media is large, special services are used to ensure delivery of such content at desired levels of quality. We have developed a system of servers, with software to control them, that store more popular content in various locations around the world. The aim is to store content so that it is not transferred very far across the Internet. This type of service typically is referred to as a “Content Delivery Network,” or “CDN.” We also have specialized video services to handle the needs of broadcasters for the rapid transmission of the very large streams of information that emerge when live events are broadcast. We carry these video streams across our network to locations specified by the broadcasters and from which these customers broadcast their final edited content.Managing the transmission of information across our network requires the proper management of many interconnected technologies, processes and systems to provide high quality, convenient secure and reliable services for our customers. Some of these services may be charged for separately, while others are included as an integral part of our more basic services. Examples of services that are typically charged separately include network security (i.e., helping customers keep their information safe) and network monitoring (i.e., keeping customers informed of the status of various equipment and sub-parts of their connections). We regularly develop new features and ancillary services to keep our network services as valuable as possible to our target customers.Since a large portion of our communications services are purchased by companies to interconnect their own information technology applications, often we find that certain customers need ancillary services that are not clearly part of communications network services and may more properly be described as information technology services. In an effort to ensure that our customers receive a superior overall experience, we frequently enter into partnerships with providers that specialize in these information technology services, so that we can assemble the full collection of services for the customer. In making the decision to add such services, we consider several factors including our core strengths, the existence of other parties with whom we can work to satisfy the customers’ needs, how important it is to customers that the new service be combined into a single Level 3 offering, and the size of the incremental  8Table of Contentsmarket that would become addressable by offering such services. For more information about our service offerings, see Item 1, “Business - Our Service Offerings” below.We are currently focusing our attention on a number of operational and financial objectives, including:•driving profitable revenue growth by increasing sales generated by our Core Network Services; •growing our Enterprise customer base as well as our share of their telecom spend, as this customer group has the largest potential for significant growth; •continually improving the customer experience to increase customer retention and reduce customer churn; •integrating our acquisition of tw telecom with Level 3, building on the strengths and capabilities of the legacy companies to position the combined company as a premier global communications provider;•launching new products and services to meet customer needs, in particular for Enterprise customers; •reducing network costs and operating expenses relative to our revenue; •growing positive cash flows from operations; •continuing to show improvement in Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in Item 7, “Management’s Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”) as a percentage of revenue; •concentrating our capital expenditures on those technologies and assets that enable us to increase our Core Network Services revenue; and•managing our Wholesale Voice Services for margin contribution. For a discussion of our Core Network Services and Wholesale Voice Services, see Item 1, “Business-Our Service Offerings” below.Our StrengthsWe believe that the following strengths will assist us in implementing our strategy:•Experienced Management Team. We have assembled a management team that we believe is well suited for our business objectives and strategy. Our senior management has substantial experience in leading the development, marketing and sale of communications services and in managing, designing and constructing metropolitan, intercity and international networks.•Recognized Industry Leadership.  We have a proven track record among communication service providers for being the first to implement many new technologies, including: global MPLS network in 2001, first global provider with IPV6 natively deployed, first to introduce VoIP and MPLS, and the first converged IP solution. 9Table of Contents•Global Reach of Our Network. We deliver services to more than 60 countries around the world on our global network. Our network connects and crosses North America, Latin America, Europe and a portion of the Asia/Pacific region.•A Broad Range of Communications Services. We provide a broad range of communications services designed to meet the needs of our customers over our network. Our communications service offerings include:•Internet and data services, which includes Internet access and IP and Ethernet Virtual Private Networks, content distribution services including caching and downloading, streaming as well as video broadcast services;   •Transport service, which includes services such as wavelengths and private line services (transoceanic, backhaul, intercity, metro and unprotected private line services) as well as dark fiber in both our intercity and metropolitan networks;•Colocation and data center services, which offer high quality data center space where customers can locate servers, content storage devices and communications network equipment in a safe and secure technical operating environment as well as value-added services such as Managed Network Services and Managed Security; •Voice and collaboration services, which includes enterprise or business voice services, wholesale VoIP component services, wholesale voice origination and termination services, voice, web and video conferencing and collaboration services.The availability of these services varies by location.For several years we have been developing services that take advantage of the investment that we have made in our network and that generally target large, existing markets. We have also expanded our existing markets for communications services through the acquisitions that we have completed, which has significantly increased the global reach of our network. Through our efforts we have increased significantly our addressable market by adding new addressable customers as well as new voice and data services that take advantage of the geographic coverage and cost advantages of our network.•Significant Metropolitan Network Platform. As of December 31, 2014, we have metropolitan fiber networks in approximately 350 markets in North America, Europe and Latin America, which currently contain approximately 64,000 route miles. The number of route miles may change in the future as we continue our integration activities related to the tw telecom acquisition.  Our metropolitan networks enable us to connect directly to points of traffic aggregation and customer locations and reduce our costs for the termination of our customers’ communications traffic on other carriers’ networks.•End-to-End Network Platform. Our strategy is to deploy network infrastructure in major metropolitan areas and to link these networks with significant intercity and trans-oceanic networks in North America, Europe and Latin America. We believe that the integration of our metropolitan and intercity networks with our colocation facilities will expand the scope and reach of our on-net customer coverage, facilitate the uniform deployment of technological innovations as we manage our future upgrade paths and allow us to grow or scale our service offerings rapidly. We believe that we have a unique combination of:•a substantial intercity and subsea network;•large fiber count metropolitan networks; 10Table of Contents•global network reach;•substantial colocation facilities; and•innovative content distribution technology and services.•Advanced IP Backbone. We operate one of the largest international IP networks or backbones. Our IP services deliver a broad range of IP transit and network interconnection solutions tailored to meet the varied needs of high bandwidth users.•Extensive Patent Portfolio. Our patent portfolio includes patents covering technologies ranging from data and voice services, to content distribution, to transmission and networking equipment. We utilize our patent portfolio in multiple ways. Developing or acquiring technologies and receiving the legal right to preclude others from using them may give us a competitive advantage. The breadth and depth of our patent portfolio may deter others, particularly telecommunications operators, from bringing patent infringement claims against us for fear of counter-claim by us and enhances our ability to enter into cross-licensing arrangements with other patent holders. We will continue to file new patent applications as we enhance and develop products and services, we will continue to seek opportunities to expand our patent portfolio through strategic acquisitions and licensing, and we will continue to appropriately enforce our patents against infringement by others.•Softswitch Based Co-Carrier Network. Our experience in operating our softswitch based co-carrier network combines with extensive local interconnection with local exchange carriers, experience in scaling a softswitch based platform, and an ability to provide seamless interconnection to the traditional telephone network or PSTN. We believe that our extensive co-carrier network and softswitch infrastructure provides us with a competitive advantage in providing various voice over IP or VoIP services.•A More Readily Upgradeable Network Infrastructure. We generally endeavor to design new networks to take advantage of technological innovations, incorporating many of the features that are not present in older communications networks. We design the transmission network to optimize aspects of fiber and optronics simultaneously as a system to provide an efficient cost structure for the services that we deliver to our customers. As fiber and optical transmission technology changes, we expect to realize new unit cost improvements by deploying more cost efficient technologies in our network. We believe that our network, process and system design will enable us to provide competitive services to our customers while also lowering our costs to provide those services.Our Service OfferingsWe offer a broad range of communications services. All of our services can be purchased by any of our customers, but some services may not be available in all locations or jurisdictions. The following is an overview description of some of the services that we offer.Core Network Services. The following are the communications services that are included in our financial reporting of Core Network Services revenue.•Transport and Fiber Services. Transport services include wavelengths, private lines, transoceanic services, and dark fiber, as well as related professional services. These services are available across our metropolitan and intercity fiber network. Wavelength services provide unprotected point-to-point connections of a fixed amount of bandwidth with Ethernet or  11Table of ContentsSONET interfaces. Wavelength services are available at a range of speeds from 1 Gbps to more than 100 Gbps. This service offering targets customers that require significant amounts of bandwidth, desire more direct control and provide their own network management. Private line services are also point-to-point connections of dedicated bandwidth but include SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH) protection to provide resiliency to fiber or equipment outages. Private line services are available in a wide range of speeds with electrical, optical and Ethernet interfaces. We also provide transport services within our transatlantic cable system connecting North America, Europe and Latin America as well as via leased bulk capacity on other transoceanic systems. International backhaul transport services, interconnecting cable landing stations and our terrestrial North American, European and Latin American networks, are also available.Our dark fiber service provides carriers, service providers, government entities and enterprises a fiber solution when unique applications, control or scale requirements make this service desirable. This includes fiber, colocation space in our Gateways and in our network facilities, power and physical operations and maintenance of the fiber and associated infrastructure. Professional services related to our transport and fiber services include network architectural design, engineering, installation and turn-up, ongoing network monitoring and management services, and field technical services.•Colocation and Data Center Services. Colocation and Data Center services include data center facilities and services including cloud, hosting, and application management solutions. Our data center facilities offer high quality, data center space where customers can locate servers, content storage devices and communications network equipment in a safe and secure technical operating environment. In addition, we offer high-speed, reliable connectivity to our network and to other networks, including metro and intercity networks, the traditional public switched telephone network and the Internet. Our data center services range from dedicated hosting and cloud services to more complex managed solutions, including disaster recovery, business continuity, applications management support, and security services to manage mission critical applications.•Security Services. Also reported in this category, Level 3 Security Solutions can be used to enable customers to address the growing threat of cyber-attack and allow customers to create a secure network, safeguard brand value, enable business continuity, and avoid complexity and cost. Our Security Services include: Secure Access which provides secure and encrypted connectivity for mobile users or remote offices; Cloud and Premises based Managed Firewall and Unified Threat Management Services including Intrusion Prevention and Detection service and Web Content filtering; network-based Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Mitigation, which protects against Internet based DDoS attacks; and Security Consulting services for Governance, Risk Management and Compliance. Security Services are sold stand-alone or in conjunction with Data Services.•IP and Data Services. Data services include Internet Services, virtual private network (“VPN”) service, content delivery network (“CDN”) service, media delivery service, Vyvx broadcast service, Converged Business Network service and Managed Services.•Internet Services.  We offer wholesale and content provider customers with high speed access to the Internet over one of the largest international Internet backbones. Using largely our own intercity and metropolitan networks in North America, Europe and Latin America, we provide customers with high performance, reliability and scalability. Access to the Internet is enabled through interconnection among our customers across our network as well as interconnections with other Internet service provider “peers.” 12Table of ContentsThe service is available stand-alone or in conjunction with managed services offerings, such as Managed Router where we deploy and manage a router that is on the customer premise or our network-based Distributed Denial of Service, or DDoS, Mitigation, which protects our business customers from Internet based DDoS attacks.•VPN Service. Built on our optical transport network, we offer customers the ability to create private point-to-point, point-to-multipoint, and full-mesh networks based on IP VPN, Virtual Private LAN service, or VPLS, Ethernet Virtual Private Line, or EVPL, or MPLS VPN technologies. These services allow service providers, enterprises and government entities to replace multiple networks with a single, cost-effective solution that simplifies the transmission of voice, video, and data over a single or converged network, while delivering high quality of service and security. These services are used for service provider and corporate data and voice networks, data center networking, disaster recovery and out-of-region or redundant customer connectivity for other service providers. VPN services are sold stand-alone or in conjunction with our managed services offerings.•Intelligent Network Services.  As the complex needs of our customers evolve and more of their critical applications are distributed between their private networks, third party data centers and cloud applications providers, we have developed and launched the first two phases of our innovative Intelligent Network and service capabilities:•“Enhanced Management,” which provides end-to-end visibility into network performance of Ethernet and managed services on a real-time, site-specific basis through our web-based customer portal. Customers are able to establish customized performance thresholds and receive proactive alerts on service performance. These innovative capabilities provide customers a segmented, granular view of their specific service performance information, rather than the aggregate network averages or overall views provided by other carriers; and•“Dynamic Capacity,” which enables Ethernet customers to scale their bandwidth on demand or schedule bandwidth availability as needed, paying for the incremental capacity they use.•CDN Services.  Our content delivery network services combine our IP network, Gateway facilities and patented technology that directs a requestor or end user to the best location or server cluster in our network to retrieve the requested content based on location and network conditions. Our CDN service provides customers with improved performance, economics, scalability, reliability and reach for their web applications. Our caching and download services provide efficient http delivery of large files such as video, software, security patches, audio and graphics to mass audiences. Our streaming service can be used to deliver high performance streams, either live or on-demand, to end users using leading proprietary protocols. Each service set provides flexible features to enable customers to control their content delivery to ensure quality end-user experience, security, freshness and targeting. We also offer storage solutions enabling customers to upload and store content to our network as part of an optimized delivery platform. In addition to our delivery services, our patented Intelligent Traffic Management service enables customers to set rules to dynamically route traffic to meet failover or dual vendor objectives.•Media Delivery Service.  We offer media delivery service to customers seeking to manage, protect and monetize content delivered over the Internet. Our media  13Table of Contentsdelivery service extends support for online distribution models and operation by providing customers with means to ingest and digitize live video content and to manage the organization and presentation of both live and on demand video to end users via a content management system. Additionally, support for content monetization via paid and advertising supported models is provided. Our media delivery services leverage our content delivery network for the delivery of managed content to end users.•Vyvx Broadcast Service.  We offer various services to provide audio and video feeds over fiber or satellite for broadcast and production customers. These services vary in capacity provided, frequency of use (that is, may be provided on an occasional or dedicated basis) and price. Super Bowl XLIX® marked the 26th consecutive year that Vyvx Services were used to support live video transmissions for the game and related content, and the 12th year of HD video transmission using IP/MPLS technology. In addition to professional sports venues, we are seeking to expand the offering of these services to college campuses across North America. We also offer encoding services to translate the broadcast video feeds we carry for our customers into formats for Internet distribution.•Managed Services. This category includes our complete portfolio of advanced performance and managed services, including professional services. Our teams of professionals work with customers to design and customize solutions that match their strategy and can help customers increase network efficiency, reduce overall operational costs, supplement skill sets, or provide specialist knowledge. Services included Managed Router, Application Performance Management, Managed WAN Optimization, Managed Ethernet Services and a variety of other professional services to meet customer needs. Managed Services are purchased in conjunction with our other network services.•Cloud and IT Services.  Our multi-disciplinary cloud services draw on many products across our products that are described above. Our Cloud and IT-based services include Level 3 Cloud Connect Solutions, Communications as a Service and Data Center Services.  These solutions are focused on the transport and delivery of enterprise data and applications.•Level 3 Cloud Connect Solutions.  Level 3 Cloud Connect Solutions create a secure, reliable path for customers to realize the efficiency, scalability and flexibility of the cloud, providing a private network that connects enterprises with leading cloud and data center providers around the world, including Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform and Microsoft Azure ExpressRoute.•Communications as a Service (CaaS).  Our Communications as a Service (CaaS) product offering delivers a Session Initiated Protocol, or SIP, based audio collaboration and on-net web conferencing over a virtual private network using a hosted model.•Voice Services.  We offer a broad range of local and enterprise voice services including VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services and traditional circuit-switch based services. Our local and enterprise voice services include VoIP enhanced local service, SIP Trunking, local inbound service, Primary Rate Interface (“PRI”) service, long distance service, toll free service and a comprehensive suite of audio, web and video collaboration services.  The following is a general description of our voice services.  Some of the following services are also offered to our voice customers.  For financial reporting purposes, voice services also include our collaboration services that are described below. 14Table of Contents•VoIP Enhanced Local.  Our VoIP enhanced local service is a VoIP service that enables broadband cable operators, IXCs, voice over IP providers, and other companies operating their own switching infrastructure to launch IP-based local and long-distance voice services via any broadband connection. The service is also used by enterprises that self-provide their own local voice features and call routing within premises-based IP PBX equipment. The service includes the essential building blocks required for residential or business voice service such as local phone numbers, local number portability, local and long distance calling, 911, operator assistance, directory listings, and directory assistance.•SIP Trunking.  SIP Trunking is a VoIP-based local phone service offered to medium and large enterprises as a replacement for traditional fully featured enterprise TDM voice services. SIP Trunking allows customers with an IP PBX to manage calls to and from the PSTN without having to purchase traditional access lines dedicated to voice. SIP Trunking includes basic local phone service components such as local phone numbers, 911, operator assistance, directory listings, local and long distance calling. In addition, customers select from a full set of feature packages that provide core call control features such as call forwarding, call waiting and call transfer, as well as advanced features such as unified messaging and one-number identity.•Local Inbound.  Our local inbound service terminates traditional telephone network originated calls to Internet Protocol termination points. Customers, such as call centers, conferencing providers, voice over IP service providers and enterprises, can obtain telephone numbers from us or port-in local telephone numbers that the customer already controls. These local calls are then converted to IP and transported over our backbone to a customer’s IP voice application at a customer-selected IP voice end point.•Enterprise Long Distance.  Our long distance service portfolio consists of local and long distance transport and termination services. Medium and large enterprises purchase our long distance services for their corporate calling or outbound contact center needs. All Level 3 long distance services are offered at the customer’s option over circuit switch or softswitch technologies.•Enterprise Toll Free.  Our toll free service terminates toll free calls that are originated on the traditional telephone network. These toll free calls are carried over either a circuit switch or softswitch network and delivered to customers in Internet Protocol or traditional TDM format. Within this portfolio are Advanced Toll Free services that provide contact center customers the ability to define and control call handling and advanced routing between the Level 3 network and multiple customer contact center locations. Customers may also combine advanced routing with network-based Intelligent Voice Response, or IVR, services that drive call routing and handling based on the caller’s interaction with the IVR.•Collaboration Services.  We offer a comprehensive suite of audio, web and video collaboration services, which include the following services:•Audio Conferencing. Ready-Access®, our on-demand/reservation less audio conferencing service, provides toll free access in key business markets worldwide. We also provide operator-assisted, full-service conference calls where participants can access our service by dialing in on either a toll or a toll-free number, or by being dialed out to by an operator. Enhanced service options include conference playback, taping/transcription service, translation services and on-line participant lists. 15Table of Contents•Web Conferencing. Our Ready-Access Web Meeting is fully integrated with Ready-Access audio conferencing for on-demand collaboration, allowing customers to manage their calls on-line, change account options, share presentations with participants and record entire meetings, including visuals. eMeeting is a full-featured Web conferencing application that allows customers to collaborate and share documents, presentations, applications, data and feedback with polling and instant messaging features. Live Meeting service uses technology licensed from Microsoft® to allow multiple attendees to participate in meetings using only their computer, a phone, and an Internet connection. We have integrated Ready-Access as an audio conferencing component into Live Meeting.•Videoconferencing Service. Our videoconferencing service provides video over IP and ISDN platforms, using multi-point bridging to connect multiple sites. Enhanced options available with our videoconferencing services include scheduling, recording and hybrid meetings that combine our audio and video services.Wholesale Voice Services.  Our Wholesale Voice Services include voice termination and toll free service.  These services share many of the same features as the local and enterprise voice services described above.•Voice Termination. Our wholesale long distance offer include domestic and international voice termination services targeted to IXCs, wireless providers, local phone companies, cable companies, resellers and voice over IP providers.•Toll Free.  As with Enterprise Toll Free, Level 3’s wholesale Toll Free service terminates toll free calls that are originated on the traditional telephone network. Customers for these services include call centers, conferencing providers, and voice over IP providers.Our priority remains to protect the confidentiality of our customers’ data, and to protect and secure our network. In addition, it is our policy and our practice to comply with laws in every country where we operate, and to provide government agencies access to customer data only when we are compelled to do so by the laws in the country where the data is located. We will continue to operate our global network in this manner to comply with applicable laws and the regulatory requirements of the telecommunications industry.For a discussion of certain geographic information regarding our revenue from external customers and long-lived assets and a discussion of financial information and operating segments, please see the notes to our consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of our communications revenue, please see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” appearing later in this Form 10-K.Our management continues to review our existing lines of business and service offerings to determine how those lines of business and service offerings align with our strategy and our financial objectives. This exercise takes place in the ordinary course of our business. To the extent that certain lines of business or service offerings are not considered to be compatible with our strategy or with our financial objectives, we may exit those lines of business or stop offering those services in part or in whole. 16Table of ContentsOur Distribution StrategyOur customers generally include the following types of customers:  Enterprises; Content; Government and Wholesale.  Our enterprise customers include:•large multinational customers;•larger enterprises that purchase communications services in a manner similar to carriers;•enterprises that purchase communications services on a regional or local basis;•portals and large search enterprises;•regional service providers; •systems integrators; and•software service providers.Our Content customers comprise subgroups of customers including:•Digital Entertainment, such as providers of online gaming; social networking providers; technology companies that enable digital advertising and digital ad agencies; and companies that provide video over the Internet;•Media and Entertainment, such as media conglomerates; programmers; studios and production companies; and broadcast station ownership groups; and•Sports teams (professional and college); and stadiums and venues.Our Government customers include U.S. Federal government departments and agencies, the government departments and agencies of other countries around the world, U.S. states and municipalities as well as research and educational consortia.Our Wholesale customers include domestic and international carriers; voice service providers, which include calling card companies, conferencing providers, and contact centers that use VoIP technology to better manage costs and enable advanced applications; wireless providers; and broadband cable television operators.To implement our strategy and reach our target customers, we use a combination of a direct sales force, an inside or call center based sales force, and indirect sales channels of third-party agents. The specific elements that we use depend upon the nature of the customers that are being targeted.We target business customers and other customers that make communications purchasing decisions on a local or regional basis with our direct sales force.  Smaller opportunities are serviced by an inside or call center based sales force generally selling pre-defined bundles of services. The customers that we target with this combination are generally in the mid-market, small regional service providers, some educational institutions and some governmental entities. We also complement our direct and inside sales forces that target these customers with an indirect sales channel of third-party agents and from time to time systems integrators. We are seeking to continue to grow our indirect sales channel to include broader relationships with systems integrators.  17Table of ContentsOur sales functions are supported by dedicated employees in sales and customer target marketing. These sales functions are also supported by centralized service or product management and development, general or corporate marketing, network services, engineering, information technology, and corporate functions including legal, finance, strategy and human resources.For the year ended December 31, 2014, our top ten communications customers represented approximately 17% of our total revenue.For a discussion of certain geographic information regarding how we manage our business, please see the discussion under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” appearing later in this Form 10-K.Our Communications NetworkOur network is an advanced, international, facilities based communications network.  We primarily provide services over our own facilities. As of December 31, 2014, our network encompasses:•approximately 110,000 intercity route miles in North America, Europe and Latin America; •metropolitan fiber networks in approximately 350 markets containing approximately 64,000 route miles;•approximately eight million square feet of Gateway and transmission facilities in North America, Europe and Latin America; •more than 350 colocation and data center facilities globally; •approximately 33,000 route miles of subsea optical fiber cable systems; and•more than 60 countries in service around the world.Terrestrial Intercity Networks.  Our intercity network covers approximately 74,000 route miles in North America, 26,000 route miles in Europe, and 10,000 route miles in Latin America as of December 31, 2014.  We may eliminate specific routes or duplicate routes as we continue to look at opportunities to optimize our cost structure and remove unnecessary cost. Our intercity network generally includes the following characteristics:Optical fiber strands designed to accommodate Dense Wave Division Multiplexing, or DWDM, transmission technology. Our optical fiber strands are designed to accommodate DWDM technology.  We believe that the installation of newer optical fibers will allow a combination of greater wavelengths of light per strand, higher transmission speeds and longer physical spacing between network electronics. We also believe that each new generation of optical fiber will allow increases in the performance of these network design aspects and will therefore enable lower unit costs.High speed intercity DWDM equipment.  Our high speed intercity DWDM equipment provides high quality, reliable and cost effective transmission across our fiber backbone. We are continually evaluating advancements in technology that will enable us to scale, lower our cost and provide higher speed services over our intercity network. We believe that the market will continue to move toward Ethernet based services and higher speed interfaces. Through our technology evaluations we believe that we have positioned ourselves to be able to deliver these capabilities for both our own IP network needs as well as those of our customers. 18Table of ContentsOpen, non-proprietary hardware and software interfaces.  Our intercity network is designed to maximize the use of open, non-proprietary hardware and software interfaces to allow less costly upgrades as hardware and software technology improves.Local Market Infrastructure.  Our local facilities include fiber optic metropolitan networks connecting our intercity network and Gateways to buildings housing communications intensive end users, enterprise customers and traffic aggregation points-including ILEC and CLEC central offices, long distance carrier points-of-presence or POPs, cable head-ends, wireless providers’ facilities and Internet peering and transit facilities. Our high fiber count metropolitan networks allow us to extend our services directly to our customers’ locations at low costs, because the availability of this network infrastructure does not require extensive multiplexing equipment to reach a customer location, which is required in ordinary fiber constrained metropolitan networks.  As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 55,000, 3,200 and 6,200 route miles of metropolitan fiber networks in North America, Europe and Latin America, respectively, and had operational, facilities based, local metropolitan networks in 228, 66, 50 and 1 markets in North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia, respectively. As we continue to integrate the tw telecom acquisition, we may eliminate specific and/or duplicate routes as we continue to look at opportunities to reduce and/or optimize our network cost structure.We operate approximately eight million square feet of space for our Gateway and transmission facilities. Our initial Gateway facilities were designed to house local sales staff, operational staff, our transmission and Internet Protocol routing, Content Delivery Networks and voice switching facilities and technical space to accommodate colocation services that is, the colocation of equipment by high-volume Level 3 customers, in an environmentally controlled, secure site with direct access to Level 3’s network generally through dual, fault tolerant connections.  As of December 31, 2014, we had more than 250 colocation facilities in North America, approximately 100 colocation facilities in Europe, and approximately 15 colocation facilities in Latin America.Most of these facilities offer a complete set of data center services ranging from housing and hosting, to more complex managed solutions, including disaster recovery, applications management, business continuity, and security services to manage mission critical applications.Transoceanic Networks.  We own a number of subsea fiber optic cable systems, including Atlantic Crossing -1 (“AC-1”), Atlantic Crossing-2 (“AC-2”), Mid-Atlantic Crossing (“MAC”), South American Crossing (“SAC”), Pan American Crossing (“PAC”) and an approximately 300 route mile system connecting the U.K. and Ireland. AC-1 and AC-2 link our European network to our North American intercity network and each of AC-1 and Yellow (AC-2) consists of four fiber strand pairs. MAC provides a strategic gateway between the Eastern Seaboard of the U.S. and our Latin America assets, a route that is experiencing acute demand growth. SAC connects major markets throughout Latin America and is one of only two sub-sea systems currently in operation that circumnavigates the majority of South America. PAC is integrated with a 2,300 mile terrestrial ring route (including associated backhaul) within Mexico, as well as an extension to Costa Rica.We also own capacity in the TAT-14 transatlantic cable system. In addition, we purchased 700 Gigabits of transatlantic capacity from Apollo Submarine Cable System Ltd. We have acquired an additional one Terabit of capacity on the Apollo South cable system, which will be drawn down over a multi-year period. We also are an owner of the Japan-US, and China-US cable systems, an indefeasible right of use, or IRU, holder on the Southern Cross cable system extending from Australia to California, as well as an owner of the Americas II cable extending from Florida to Brazil, and an IRU holder on the Arcos system in the Caribbean. In addition, we own capacity on the Reliance-Globacom transatlantic system Flag Atlantic-1 and capacity on the Hibernia transatlantic cable system.Content Acquisition and Distribution Services Architecture.  Content distribution network, or CDN, describes a system of computers networked together across the Internet to provide content to users in the most efficient manner to enable an optimal user experience. In a CDN, nodes or groups of computers  19Table of Contentsare deployed in multiple locations closer to the end user, also known as the “edge of the network” and cooperate with each other to satisfy requests for content by end users, transparently moving content behind the scenes to optimize the delivery process. Requests for content are directed intelligently through sophisticated software applications to nodes that provide optimal performance for end users.The CDN platform directs network traffic across our existing physical network and infrastructure. The CDN platform is composed of the edge server or computer that provides caching and streaming functions, and the global server that provides load balancing-that is, a computer that directs the traffic to the most efficient edge server to meet the end user’s request. The edge server enables the storage of popular content in a location that is closer to the end user and thereby reduces bandwidth requirements and improves response times for that stored content. The global server or computer load balancing components of the CDN directs end user requests to the content source that is best able to serve the request of the particular end user, such as routing to the service node that is closest to the end user or to the one with enough capacity to service the request of the end user.The Vyvx platform transmits audio and video programming for our customers over our fiber optic network and via satellite. We use our network to carry many live traditional broadcast and cable television events from the site of the event to the network control centers of the broadcasters of the event. These events include, among other things, live sporting events of the major professional sports leagues. For live events where the location is not known in advance, such as breaking news stories in remote locations, we provide an integrated satellite and fiber optic network based service to transmit the content to our customers. Most of our customers for these services contract for the service on an event-by-event basis; however, we have some customers who have purchased a dedicated point-to-point service, which enables these customers to transmit programming at any time.Our Patent PortfolioThrough acquisitions and through our own research and development, we have more than 1,000 patents and patent applications in the United States and around the world, as of December 31, 2014. Our patent portfolio includes patents covering technologies ranging from data and voice services to content distribution to transmission and networking equipment.In addition to the patents and patent applications we own, we have received licenses to patents held by others, including through a cross-license agreement with IBM entered into in December 2007, giving us access to technology covered by IBM’s approximately (at that time) 42,000 patents covering many technologies relevant to our business. While patents give us the right to prevent others, particularly competitors, from using our proprietary technologies, patent licenses give us the freedom to operate our business without the risk of interruption from the holder of the patent that has been licensed to us.We use our patent portfolio in a number of ways. First, developing or acquiring technologies and receiving the legal right to preclude others from using them may give us a competitive advantage. Second, the breadth and depth of our patent portfolio may deter others, particularly telecommunications operators, from bringing patent infringement claims against us for fear of counter-claim by us. Most of the patent infringement suits brought against us to date have been initiated by patent-holding companies who do not operate telecommunications businesses and who are less likely to be subject to a counter-claim of infringement by us. Finally, the extensiveness of our patent portfolio gives us the option to cross-license with others having similarly broad portfolios on terms acceptable to us, mitigating the risk that others will wish to assert patent infringement claims against us.We will continue to file new patent applications as we enhance and develop products and services, we will continue to seek opportunities to expand our patent portfolio through strategic acquisitions and licensing and we will continue to appropriately enforce our patents against infringement by others. 20Table of ContentsBusiness Support SystemsWe believe that it is important to streamline and simplify our processes and systems. To pursue our business strategies, we have developed and are continuing to develop and implement a set of integrated software applications designed to automate our operational processes. These development activities also relate to the integration of the systems that were used by the companies that we have acquired. Through the development of our business support systems, we believe that we have the opportunity to obtain a competitive advantage relative to traditional telecommunications companies. In addition, we recognize that for the success of certain of our services that some of our business support systems will need to be easily accessible and usable directly by our customers.We are currently developing and deploying a unified set of simplified processes and systems that have been designed to streamline and synchronize our service, sales and operational functions. These processes and systems have been designed to provide improved capability in service catalog management, sales opportunity management, customer management, quoting, order entry, order workflow, physical and logical network inventory management, service management, and financial management.Key design aspects of the business support system development program are:•integrated modular applications to allow us to upgrade specific applications as new services are available;•a scalable architecture that allows our customers and third-party sales channel partners direct access to certain functions that would otherwise have to be performed by our employees;•phased completion of software releases designed to allow us to test functionality on an incremental basis;•“web-enabled” applications so that on-line access to order entry, network operations, billing, and customer care functions are available to all authorized users, including our customers;•use of a service-oriented architecture that is designed to separate data and applications, and is expected to allow reuse of software capabilities at minimum cost; •use of pre-developed, commercial “off-the-shelf” applications or Software as a Service (SaaS), where applicable, which will interface with our internally developed applications; and•creation of a mobility solution for use by sales and certain operational functions to improve productivity and customer experience.CompetitionThe communications industry has been and remains highly competitive. In the late 1990s and the early 2000s, significant new capacity was deployed by both existing and new entrants. This oversupply led to a period of financial restructuring and industry consolidation. Given the significant economies of scale inherent in the communications industry, we believe further consolidation may occur.Our primary competitors are long distance carriers, ILECs, CLECs, Post Telephone and Telegraphs, or PTTs, Content Delivery Networks, or CDNs, companies, and other companies that provide communications services. The following information identifies some key competitors for each of our service offerings. 21Table of ContentsOur key competitors for our IP and data services include Verizon, AT&T, XO, NTT, Tata and Cogent in North America, and BT, Orange, TeliaSonera and Telefonica in Europe. In Latin America, our main competitors are Telefonica, Telmex and national incumbent telecommunications carriers.For transport and fiber services, our key competitors in North America are other facilities based communications companies including AT&T, Verizon, CenturyLink, Zayo, and XO. In Europe, our key competitors are other carriers such as PTT companies, BT, Orange, Cable & Wireless, TeliaSonera, Colt, Interoute, KPN and Belgacom. In Latin America, our main competitors are Telefonica, Telmex and national incumbent telecommunications carriers.For voice services our key competitors are other providers of communications services including AT&T, Verizon, CenturyLink, CLECs and national incumbent telecommunications carriers.For our colocation and datacenter services, our key competitors are other facilities based communications companies, and other colocation providers such as web hosting companies and third-party colocation companies. In North America, these companies include Equinix, Terremark (Verizon), and CoreSite. In Europe, competitors include Equinix, Global Switch, InterXion, Telecity and Telehouse Europe. In Latin America, our largest competitors include Telefonica, Telmex, and IBM.For CDN services, our key competitors include Akamai Technologies and Limelight Networks.In the enterprise and government markets, our key competitors in North America include ILECs (such as AT&T, Verizon and CenturyLink) and CLECs (such as XO).  In Europe, they include BT, Cable & Wireless (Vodafone), Deutsche Telekom and Orange. In Latin America, competitors include Telefonica and Telmex.The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. For instance, periodic technological advances permit substantial increases in transmission capacity of both new and existing fiber, and the introduction of new products or emergence of new technologies may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those which we plan on providing. Accordingly, in the future our most significant competitors may be new entrants to the communications industry, such as content companies that have existing significant customer bases and substantial cash resources that are greater than ours, and, unlike the traditional incumbent carriers we also compete with, would not be burdened by an installed base of outmoded or legacy equipment.RegulationU.S. RegulationFederal RegulationThe Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) has jurisdiction over interstate and international communications services.  We have obtained FCC approval to land our transoceanic cables in the United States.  We have also obtained FCC authorization to provide international services on a facilities and resale basis, as well as via various wireless licenses.  Under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the “1996 Act”), any entity, including cable television companies, electric and gas utilities, may enter any telecommunications market, subject to reasonable state regulation of safety, quality and consumer protection.  The United States House of Representatives Energy and Commerce Committee recently began to consider revising and updating the 1996 Act, including potential changes to the FCC, its jurisdiction and its organizational structure.  It is far too early in this process for us to either predict any modifications that might be made to the 1996 Act as part of this process, their effects on us, or the pace at which this process may proceed. 22Table of ContentsThe 1996 Act previously required certain tariffs to define the services, terms, and conditions under which said services were to be offered.  Subsequent deregulatory measures have eliminated some tariff requirements for competitive services.Accordingly, as of August 1, 2001, our tariffs for interstate end user services were eliminated and our tariffs for international interexchange services were eliminated on January 28, 2002.  Our rates must still be “just and reasonable” and “nondiscriminatory” under the 1996 Act. Our state tariffs remain in place where required (some states do not have, or have eliminated, the requirement to file certain tariffs). We have historically relied primarily on our sales force and marketing activities to provide information to our customers regarding these matters and expect to continue to do so. Further, in accordance with certain FCC tariff filing requirements, we maintain a schedule of our rates, terms and conditions for our domestic and international private line services on our web site.Special Access Regulation.  Special access services are “lit” loop or transport facilities that support the transmission of data on a point-to-point basis, often referred to as “private lines.” Level 3 purchases a substantial amount of special access services from ILECs and other telecommunications carriers to reach customer premises and, less frequently, to support interoffice transport requirements. In addition, Level 3 provides special access services to end user customers and to other carriers via its own network and/or through the resale of other carriers’ special access services.In January 2005, the FCC commenced an examination of the regulatory framework governing the rates, terms, and conditions under which ILECs subject to “price cap” regulation provide interstate special access services. In this rulemaking, the FCC is reviewing both the price cap regime by which ILEC special access rates are set in most areas, as well as the “pricing flexibility” regime under which ILECs have obtained, in so-called “phase I” areas, the ability to enter into more individualized relationships with customers and to lower prices, and in so-called “phase II” areas, the ability to raise prices based upon certain threshold showings of the presence of competitors in a specific geographic and product market.  In August 2012, the FCC froze further grants of phase II pricing flexibility. In December 2012, the FCC issued an order stating that it will gather additional data on a mandatory basis from both providers and purchases of special access services so that it can conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the state of competition in the special access market.  These additional, mandatory data requests are due in early 2015, but we cannot predict when the FCC will complete its review of the data submitted.  In addition, we have suggested to various government agencies, including the FCC and the Department of Justice, that certain tariff terms of price cap ILECs are anticompetitive.  While we cannot predict if or when such agencies will act on such matters, the FCC has said that it intends to review these matters as part of its special access competition evaluation, and in separate, parallel proceedings as well.Network Neutrality and Open Internet.  On December 21, 2010, the FCC issued the Open Internet Order (FCC 10-201) to preserve the Internet as an open platform for innovation, investment and free expression. The Open Internet Order provided, among other things, that broadband providers must: disclose their network management practices; not block lawful content; and not unreasonably discriminate in transmitting lawful content. The Open Internet Order did not, however, apply to “peering relationships” (that is, the interconnection agreements governing how we connect into a broadband supplier’s network and exchange traffic) and therefore did not benefit us or our customers in many cases. The Open Internet Order became effective on November 20, 2011 and was promptly appealed.  On January 14, 2014, the United States Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit vacated the majority of the Open Internet Order on the grounds that the FCC could not subject broadband ISPs to regulation as “common carriers” when the FCC had previously determined that broadband services were not common carrier services.  On February 26, 2015, the FCC adopted a new order, the Open Internet Remand Order.  While the text of the order has not yet been released, the FCC stated that the order prohibits broadband providers from: blocking access to lawful content; impairing or degrading (also known as throttling) Internet traffic; prioritizing some content over other content in exchange for consideration; or  23Table of Contentsunreasonably interfering with or disadvantaging the ability of users to access lawful content.  In contrast to the 2010 order, the 2015 order provides that the Commission will have the authority to hear complaints regarding interconnection disputes with broadband providers. We expect the new order to be challenged in court, and we cannot predict the outcome of that lawsuit, or whether the new rules will be stayed pending resolution of that lawsuit.IP Interconnection.  In prior filings, we have noted an IP interconnection dispute with Comcast.  Our dispute with Comcast has now been resolved on mutually satisfactory terms.  However, we have similar disputes with other last mile bottleneck broadband providers, some of which refuse to augment (or add) bandwidth at congested interconnection links between our respective networks (which is known to  degrade the quality of third party content) without the payment by us of a toll unilaterally dictated by the broadband supplier.  We have and intend to continue to challenge the right of these last mile bottleneck broadband suppliers, which control the only access to their subscribers, to collect such arbitrary tolls from companies like us and our customers.  These tolls, if imposed, would affect our and our customers underlying costs, and would jeopardize innovation on the free and open Internet.  At present, we cannot predict the outcome of these IP interconnection disputes.  However, once the FCC’s new Open Internet rules go into effect, Level 3 will have the option to bring such a dispute to the FCC for resolution.Intercarrier Compensation.  Telecommunications carriers compensate one another for traffic carried on each other’s networks. Interexchange carriers pay access charges to local telephone companies for long distance calls that originate and terminate on local networks. Local telephone companies typically charge one another for local and Internet-bound traffic terminating on each other’s networks. The methodology by which carriers compensate one another for exchanged traffic, whether it be for local, intrastate or interstate traffic, has been under review by the FCC for over a decade.In November 2011, the FCC released the Universal Service Fund/Intercarrier Compensation Transformation Order (USF/ICC Transformation Order).  Along with addressing other matters, the USF/ICC Transformation Order established a prospective intercarrier compensation framework for terminating switched access and VoIP traffic. Under the USF/ICC Transformation Order and subsequent related FCC orders, most terminating switched access charges and all reciprocal compensation charges were capped at then-current levels, and will be reduced to zero over, as relevant to Level 3, generally a six year transition period that began July 1, 2012.Level 3 maintains approximately 300 interconnection agreements with other telecommunications carriers. These agreements set out the terms and conditions under which the parties will exchange traffic. The largest agreements are with AT&T and Verizon. Most of Level 3’s agreements with AT&T and Verizon have expired terms, but remain effective in evergreen status.  As these and other interconnection agreements expire, we will continue to evaluate simply allowing them to continue in evergreen status (so long as the counterparty allows it) or negotiating new agreements.  Any renegotiation would involve uncertainty as to the final terms and conditions, including the compensation rates for various types of traffic.  In addition, changes in law, including FCC orders, may allow or compel us to renegotiate current and successor interconnection agreements over the next year.Intercarrier Compensation/VoIP.  Pursuant to the USF/ICC Transformation Order, VoIP, while remaining unclassified as either an information or a telecommunications service, was prospectively categorized as either local or non-local traffic.  If “local”, then VoIP traffic is subject to reciprocal compensation; if “non-local”, then it is subject to interstate rates - thus eliminating any intrastate access rate applicable to VoIP.  The USF/ICC Transformation Order did not address the treatment of VoIP retroactively.  Level 3 is involved in a number of intercarrier compensation disputes dealing with the rating of VoIP traffic.  At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these proceedings or the timing for their eventual resolution.   Other VoIP Regulation.  The FCC has classified VoIP services as “interstate” services subject to FCC regulations, and has stated that states have limited authority to regulate the offering of VoIP  24Table of Contentsservices. On September 22, 2003, Vonage Holdings Corporation (“Vonage”) filed a petition with the FCC requesting a declaration that its offerings, which originate on a broadband network in IP format and terminate on the PSTN, are interstate information services not subject to state regulation under the 1996 Act and existing FCC rules. On November 10, 2004, the FCC adopted an order (which was subsequently upheld on appeal) ruling that Vonage’s service was an interstate service not subject to state regulation.On June 3, 2005, the FCC issued an order (which was subsequently upheld on appeal) requiring all interconnected VoIP providers to deliver enhanced 911 capabilities to their subscribers by no later than November 28, 2005.  We have modified our service offerings to VoIP providers to assist them in complying with the FCC mandate, and have ensured that our retail VoIP services comply with these rules.The FCC has imposed further regulatory requirements on VoIP providers that had previously been applicable only to traditional telecommunications providers, such as obligations  to contribute to the federal universal service fund, to comply with regulations relating to local number portability (including contributing to the costs of managing number portability requirements), to abide by the FCC’s service discontinuance rules, to contribute to the Telecommunications Relay Services fund, and to abide by the regulations concerning Customer Proprietary Network Information and the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act. In addition, a number of state public utility commissions are conducting regulatory proceedings that could affect our rights and obligations with respect to IP-based voice applications. Specifically, some states have taken the position that the “local” component of VoIP service is subject to traditional regulations applicable to local telecommunications services, such as the obligation to pay intrastate universal service fees.  We cannot predict whether the FCC or state public utility commissions will impose additional requirements, regulations or charges upon our provision of services related to IP communications.Intercarrier Compensation/Wireless.  There are currently a number of lawsuits ongoing in the United States concerning the intercarrier compensation charges applicable to certain wireless telephone calls, how to determine whether those calls were local or long distance under the applicable rules, and what statute of limitations applies to such claims.  We are is one of many defendants in certain of these lawsuits, and is a potential plaintiff in other, yet to be filed lawsuits.  As with any litigation, the outcome of this litigation is difficult to predict.   Universal Service.  Level 3 is subject to federal and state regulations that implement universal service support for access to communications services in rural and high-cost areas and to low-income consumers at reasonable rates; and access to advanced communications services by schools, libraries and rural health care providers. The FCC assesses Level 3 a percentage of interstate and international revenue it receives from retail customers as its contribution to the Federal Universal Service Fund. Additionally, the FCC has ruled that states may assess contributions to their state Universal Service Funds from VoIP providers. Any change in the assessment methodology may affect Level 3’s revenue and expenses, but at this time it is not possible to predict the extent we would be affected, if at all.Network Security Agreement.  In connection with the acquisition of Global Crossing, we entered into an agreement (the “Network Security Agreement”) with certain agencies of the U.S. Government to address the U.S. Government’s national security and law enforcement concerns. The Network Security Agreement is intended (i) to ensure our ability to carry out lawfully authorized U.S. Government electronic surveillance of communications that originate and/or terminate in the U.S.; (ii) to prevent and detect access to and use of U.S. communications; and (iii) to satisfy U.S. critical infrastructure protection requirements. Failure to comply with our obligations under the Network Security Agreement could result in the revocation of our telecommunications licenses by the FCC and other penalties. The Network Security Agreement also imposes significant requirements related to information storage and management, traffic routing and management, physical, logical and network security, personnel screening and training, audit, reporting and other matters. 25Table of ContentsState RegulationThe 1996 Act is intended to increase competition in the telecommunications industry, especially in the local exchange market. With respect to local services, ILECs are required to allow interconnection to their networks and to provide unbundled access to network facilities, as well as a number of other pro-competitive measures. The implementation of the 1996 Act continues to be subject to numerous state rulemaking proceedings on these issues.State regulatory agencies have jurisdiction when our facilities and services are used to provide intrastate telecommunications services. A portion of our traffic may be classified as intrastate telecommunications and therefore subject to state regulation. We expect that we will offer more intrastate telecommunications services (including intrastate switched services) as our business and product lines expand. We are authorized to provide telecommunications services in all fifty states and the District of Columbia. In addition, we need to maintain interconnection agreements with ILECs where we wish to provide service. We expect that we should be able to negotiate or otherwise obtain renewals or successor agreements through adoption of others’ contracts or arbitration proceedings, although the rates, terms, and conditions applicable to interconnection and the exchange of traffic with certain ILECs could change significantly in certain cases. The degree to which the rates, terms, and conditions may change will depend not only upon the negotiation and arbitration process and availability of other interconnection agreements, but will also depend in significant part upon state commission proceedings that either uphold or modify the current regimes governing interconnection and the exchange of certain kinds of traffic between carriers.There are initiatives in several state legislatures to lower intrastate access rates, aligning them with interstate rates, some of which may be affected by the FCC Order on intercarrier compensation. While we believe that rate adjustment initiatives such as this are generally better considered holistically by the FCC as part of its overall intercarrier compensation reforms, some states have and may continue to determine otherwise. Depending on whether we are a net collector or a net payer of any adjusted rate, such rate adjustments could have a negative effect on us.Some states also require prior approvals or notifications for certain transfers of assets, customers or ownership of certificated carriers and for issuances by certified carriers of equity or debt.Local RegulationOur networks are subject to numerous local regulations such as building/permitting/trenching codes and licensing/franchise fees. Such regulations vary on a city-by-city, county-by-county and state-by-state basis. To install our own fiber optic transmission facilities, we need to obtain rights-of-way over privately and publicly owned land. Rights-of-way that are not already secured, or which may expire and not be renewed, may not be available to us on economically reasonable or advantageous terms in the future.European RegulationUnlike the United States which has a federal-state regulatory scheme, the European Union has adopted a more systematic approach to the convergence of networks and the regulation of telecommunications services. The European Commission oversees the implementation by its Member States of various directives developed to regulate electronic communications in a technology and platform neutral manner. In February 2003, the European Union adopted a new regulatory framework for electronic communications that is designed to address in a technologically neutral manner the convergence of communications across telecommunications, computer and broadcasting networks. The directives address: (1) framework (2) interconnection and access, (3) authorization and licensing, (4) universal service and (5) privacy. These directives along with an additional decision on radio spectrum set out the basis for regulation at the national level. 26Table of ContentsPursuant to these measures, the licensing regime was replaced with one of general authorization. Our existing licenses were canceled and replaced with statutory authorization, subject to various general conditions imposed by national regulatory authorities (“NRAs”). NRAs continue to be responsible for issuing specific licenses in relation to radio spectrum.In November 2009, the European Parliament and Council of Ministers agreed to implement a number of changes to the existing regime, comprising the “Better Regulation” Directive (Directive 2009/140/EC) and the “Citizens’ Rights” Directive (Directive 2009/136/EC), which are intended to improve the existing regulatory framework, and ensure that the needs of users are more clearly defined and to remove potential ambiguity within the existing framework in a number of areas such as the processing of personal data. The legislation which transposes the two Directives above into national law required Member States to enact various amendments into national legislation by May 2011.The Framework Directive (revised 2009) requires national regulatory authorities (“NRAs”), on a rolling basis, to analyze a set of markets for electronic communications which may require ex-ante regulation to function competitively.This analysis contains three different elements:•Market definition - first the NRA must define the relevant geographic and product market.•SMP assessment - in a second step the NRA must analyze whether one or more undertaking active in that market possesses significant market power (conceptually similar to dominance), either individually or jointly with others.•Decision on remedies - if the NRA identifies a market with a lack of effective competition, it is required to impose certain regulatory obligations, so-called remedies.The basis for this measure is the European Commission’s Recommendation on Relevant Markets, which contains a list of markets that should be subject to ex ante regulation. Whenever a NRA concludes that a given market shows failures that hamper competition, it must impose appropriate remedies on undertakings with a significant market power in accordance with the market Access Directive and Universal Service Directives.Notwithstanding a synchronized approach to regulation in Europe, the implementation of the directives has not been uniform across the Member States of the European Union. Recognizing this concern, in November 2009, the EU implemented one regulation establishing the Body of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009) (“BEREC”).  BEREC’s remit is to improve harmonization between national regulatory measures so as to ensure greater consistency of remedies and to anticipate emerging regulatory requirements.  From 2012 through 2014, BEREC adopted a common position on several issues of relevance, including wholesale local and broadband access, wholesale leased lines and net neutrality. BEREC’s work program for 2015 adopted in December 2014 identifies three key areas of focus: (i) promoting competition and investment, including work on wholesale access products, challenges and drivers for NGA roll-out and preparation for all-IP networks; (ii) promoting the internal market, including work on implementation of the Recommendation on termination rates and preparation for legislative evolution; (iii) empowering and protection of end users. Additionally, the EU is currently working on proposals for legislative change aimed at strengthening the degree of harmony across Member States in support of the ‘Single market’ objectives.In 2010, the EU adopted a long term strategic policy known as the Digital Agenda for Europe 2010 - 2020, aimed at ensuring that the EU derives the maximum economic, industrial and social benefit from advanced communications services, including the extensive roll-out of ‘superfast broadband.’ The majority of Member States have each adopted their own national policies in support of this high level agenda. For example, in the U.K., the Government indicated in December 2010, the adoption of a policy  27Table of Contentsobjective to ensure that every community in the country will have access to ‘superfast broadband’ by 2015 which, it is acknowledged, will require significant new investment in infrastructure projects, a number of which have been completed or are underway. In December 2014, the Office of Communications (“OFCOM”) published its draft Annual Plan for 2015 indicating that one of its key objectives remains the promotion of effective competition and removing obstacles for customers intending to switch providers.  Middle East and African RegulationIn recent years, we have expanded our operations beyond the borders of the European Union.  While a number of jurisdictions have adopted regulatory regimes broadly similar to the European model and promote full competition, many of the countries in this region have not yet committed to liberalizing their telecommunications regimes and opening their telecommunications markets to foreign investment as part of the 1998 World Trade Organization Agreement on Basic Telecommunications Services.   We cannot be certain of how many regional countries may ultimately liberalize their national markets or how quickly change may take place and the effect on our business of future regulatory change cannot be accurately predicted.Canadian RegulationThe Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (“CRTC”) regulates telecommunications providers and their service offerings in Canada.  Regulatory developments over the past several years have terminated the historic monopolies of the ILECs, bringing significant competition to this industry for both domestic and international long distance services.  The provision of Canadian domestic and international transmission facilities based services is no longer restricted to “Canadian carriers”.  Prior to June 2012, these carriers had to have majority ownership and control in-fact by Canadians.  There are no such Canadian ownership and control requirements for companies that resell the services and facilities of a Canadian carrier. Accordingly, we have historically operated as a reseller of Canadian domestic and international transmission facilities-based services in Canada.  Last June, material ownership restrictions were repealed, thus allowing us to register with the CRTC as a facilities-based telecommunications common carrier.  We did so in December 2012, and also obtained a Basic International Telecommunications Service license, allowing us to carry traffic that originates or terminates in points outside of Canada.Latin American RegulationThe regulatory status of the telecommunications markets in Latin America varies to some degree.  All of the countries in which we currently operate are members of the World Trade Organization, and most have committed to some deregulatory measures such as market competition and foreign ownership.  Some countries now permit competition for all telecommunications facilities and services, while others allow less competition for some facilities and services, but restrict competition for other services.  The telecommunications regulatory regimes of many Latin American countries are in the process of development.  Many issues, such as regulation of incumbent providers, interconnection, unbundling of local loops, resale of telecommunications services, and pricing have not been addressed fully, or even at all.  We cannot accurately predict whether and how these issues will be resolved, or their effect on our operations.Below is a summary of certain of the regulations currently applicable to our Latin American operations, by country.  The regulations apply equally to all of our operating entities in a given country.ArgentinaThe Argentine telecommunications market was opened to competition on November 9, 2000. Following market liberalization, the government issued a series of regulations to transition to competition, including Decree No. 764/00.  The Decree established rules for the granting of licenses for  28Table of Contentstelecommunications services, interconnection, and the management and control of the radio spectrum.  The Decree also established new rules and regulations to promote access to telecommunications services for customers located in high-cost access or maintenance areas or with physical limitations or special social needs.  These rules and regulations, effective as of January 1, 2001, established that these services would be financed by all telecommunications providers (including us) through a Universal Service Fund (“USF”), backed by the payment of 1% of each provider’s total revenue for telecommunications services.The Argentine telecommunications sector is subject to a new comprehensive national telecommunications act effective as of December 2014:  “Digital Argentina Law” No. 27078 (the “New Telecom Law”).The New Telecom Law establishes that the former Law No. 19,798, its supplementary laws and decrees, will remain in full force and effect as long as they do not contradict the New Telecom Law and until the new regulatory authority enacts the required new supporting regulatory framework.  Most relevant aspects to our business such as the licensing processes, USF regime, interconnection regime and spectrum regime set forth under the former Law No. 19,798 and its supplementary laws will continue in full force. The New Telecom Law creates a single regulatory authority in charge of setting public policy and industry regulation. The new authority (“Autoridad Federal de Tecnologías de la Información” /Federal Authority for Information Technology) will replace the existing  Comisión Nacional de Comunicaciones (“National Communications Commission”) and the Secretaría de Comunicaciones (“Secretary of Communications”). BrazilTelecommunications services in Brazil are regulated by the Ministry of Communications, pursuant to Law No. 9,472 as of July 16, 1997 (the “General Telecommunications Law”).  This law authorized the creation of the Agencia Nacional de Telecomunicações (the “National Telecommunications Agency,” known as “ANATEL”), an independent agency under the Ministry of Communications that regulates and supervises all aspects of telecommunications services.  ANATEL enforces the legislative determinations of the Ministry of Communications. ANATEL has generally pursued a policy of market liberalization and supported a competitive telecommunications environment.ChileThe telecommunications industry in Chile is regulated by the Undersecretariat of Telecommunications, a department under the Ministry of Transportation and Telecommunications.In 1978, the National Policy on Telecommunications was issued which, in its most relevant aspects, called for the development of telecommunications services to be conducted by private institutions through authorizations granted by the government.  However, it also endorsed a series of regulations aimed at establishing increased technical control over such investments and conferring certain discretionary powers upon the government.  The policy was formalized through the General Law on Telecommunications approved in 1982, in which free, non-discriminatory access was granted to private firms in the development of the nation’s telecommunications services. This law established responsibilities with respect to telecommunication services, compulsory interconnection of facilities between public service licensees, and effectuated mandatory tariffing of services where existing market conditions were deemed insufficient to guarantee a free tariff system.Chile amended its General Law on Telecommunications in 1985 to provide that concessions and permits may be granted without limit depending upon the quantity and type of service and geographic location.  The law guarantees interconnection among telecommunications service concessionaires. Chile  29Table of Contentsdefines value added services as supplementary services.  It is not necessary to have a telecommunications service license to offer supplementary services, although those who provide additional services must comply with the technical standards established by the Department of Telecommunications, and obtain authorization therefrom.The General Law on Telecommunications has been amended on several occasions regarding such matters as network neutrality, the recent elimination of domestic long distance telephony, and full implementation of number portability, and establishing a national plan for critical telecommunications infrastructure to ensure continuity of services.ColombiaThe telecommunication industry in Colombia is subject to regulation by the Colombian Ministry of Communications.  Since 1991, the Colombian Government has pursued a policy of liberalization and has encouraged joint ventures between public and private telecommunication companies to provide new and improved telecommunication services.  In 2009, the Colombian government adopted a new regulatory regime (Law 1341, the “TIC law”) that was aimed at further deregulating the telecommunications market.The telecommunication industry in Colombia is subject to regulation by the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC), the National Spectrum Agency (ANE) and the National Television Authority (ANTV).   The competition authority and consumer protection agency in Colombia is the Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (SIC), which is responsible for enforcing antitrust regulations, protecting consumers’ rights and promoting competition in all economic sectors, including telecommunications. The Ministry of Information and Communications Technologies (“ICT”) is in charge of telecommunications policymaking, and the Minister is a member of the board of the regulatory bodies (CRC, ANTV and ANE).The TIC Law created a new ICT register to facilitate market entry by telecommunications operators, as licenses were no longer tied to the provision of telecommunications services in Colombia. If services providers require spectrum the Ministry granted a spectrum use permit. During 2014, the CRC and the Ministry of Information and Communications Technologies (“MinICT”) issued regulations and policies to promote and improve competition in the telecommunications sector in Colombia, such as implementation of the ICT strategy “Vive Digital”The Colombian government is interested in joining the OECD, and this will require the adoption of some reforms in the telecommunication sector, such as measures to ensure the independence of the regulatory authorities, eliminate concentration in fixed and mobile markets and remove barriers to network infrastructure deployment, which would not affect our business in Colombia. Costa RicaCosta Rica has possibly been the most resistant country in Latin America to liberalize the telecommunications market.  Telecommunications in Costa Rica have historically been under the structure of a state-owned monopoly. Following ratification of the free trade agreement between the US and Central American States, in 2007, Costa Rica started the reform of its regulatory environment to open telecommunications to competition.In pursuit of this objective, which is still ongoing, the government of Costa Rica moved to a total liberalized telecom market in the country from 2008.  A new Telecommunications Law was enacted in June 2008 and the new regulatory body, the Telecommunications Superintendence (“SUTEL”), was  30Table of Contentscreated on July 2009 by the Law 8660. SUTEL is an administrative body within the former Public Services Regulatory Authority (ARESEP).Examples of SUTEL’s responsibilities are:  implementing policy and legislation, regulating the market entry by service providers and the services, imposing access and interconnection obligations, resolving intercarrier and unfair competition disputes, approving retail tariffs and contracts with end users, overseeing the universal service fund, and managing scarce resources, including numbers and radio spectrum.  SUTEL also ensures compliance with consumer protections and promotes competition in the telecommunications sector.The executive branch retains certain direct responsibilities in the telecom sector through the Ministry of Science, Technology and Telecommunications (“MICITT”), which is the main authority for the promotion and definition of national telecommunications policy, including the definition of a national plan for the development of telecommunications and control over spectrum licensing by SUTEL.In 2014, SUTEL started to conduct market research on the prices of submarine cable access services in Costa Rica, to determine whether prices in that country are competitive in comparison with international prices. The final report on this research has not been released yet.At the end of 2014, SUTEL announced that it expects to review the conditions for effective competition in the various telecommunications markets in Costa Rica (fixed, mobile, data, etc.) in early 2015, which might lead to the liberalization of the prices of telecommunication services in some markets or a review of new regulatory rulings to promote competition.Finally, the MICITT is working on a new plan for the development of telecommunications in Costa Rica, which will be issued in the first half of 2015. The plan addresses the main objectives for the growth of the telecommunications sector through 2021, and it should serve as the basis for the development of our market in Costa Rica.EcuadorA new Law of Telecommunications will be approved in the first quarter of 2015. As a result, the organizational structure of public entities in Ecuador will change with the creation of the Agency for the Regulation and Control of Telecommunications (“ARCOTEL”), which will be responsible for the planning, regulation and control of telecommunications services as well as spectrum management.The Ministry of Telecommunications will remain in charge of the development of information and communication technologies in Ecuador. It issues policies and general plans and monitors their implementation.  The Ministry also evaluates, coordinates and promotes actions to ensure equal access to services and the effective and efficient use thereof. With the new legal framework all related regulations are expected to be modified during 2015.MexicoIn June, 2013, the Mexican government performed an integral amendment of the regime, through the enactment of a Constitutional Decree.  Such Decree included the modification of the Mexican Constitution and several legislative measures and will require a series of further regulations amending the main regulatory framework of the telecommunications industry.  Some of the most important aspects set forth in the amendment are the following: (i) the Federal Institution of Telecommunications (“IFETEL”) was created as a constitutionally autonomous entity, replacing the existing Federal Telecommunications Commission (“COFETEL”), as the sole telecommunications regulatory body; and (ii) foreign investment was allowed with up to 100% in telecommunications and satellite communication services (previously capped at 49%) and up to 49% in broadcasting services (previously prohibited). 31Table of ContentsA new telecommunications law was approved by the Federal Congress of Mexico and became effective on August 13, 2014. The telecommunications sector in Mexico is regulated primarily by the Federal Institute of Telecommunications (“IFETEL or IFT”). Among other aspects, the IFT regulates the requirements for licensing public telecommunications networks, and the obligations of telecommunication companies in Mexico.  Further, it manages licensing requirements for radioelectric spectrum, satellite geostationary orbits assigned to Mexico and its related spectrum, makes declarations of preponderant agents in the telecommunications and broadcasting sectors (more than 50% of the users, subscribers, audience, network traffic or used network capacity, measured on a national basis), analyzes the divestiture and restructuring plans submitted by Preponderant agents to reconsider their status and authorizations to commercialize telecommunications services.Under the new telecommunications law, the provision of value-added services has been deregulated.  Also, there is a new concession-granting regime, which establishes a unique concession for the provision of all telecommunication services. The unique concession may be granted by the IFT only to Mexican individuals or companies, but there will be no limitation on foreign investment. However, the concessions granted before the new law was enacted, will remain valid until they expire or the operator decides to apply for a master concession (transition regime). On March 6 2014, the IFT declared America Movil SAB de  CV, Telefonos de Mexico SAB de CV, and Grupo Carso, among other companies, to be preponderant agents in the telecommunications sector, and Grupo Televisa, among others, to be a preponderant agent in the open broadcast television sector. The divestiture plan submitted by America Movil is pending approval. The IFT may impose asymmetric regulations and specific obligations upon preponderant agents such as rates, quality, shared-use of infrastructure, rights of way and disaggregation of the local telecommunication network.While the IFT provides the main regulatory framework of the telecommunications industry, other relevant laws in the field are the Federal Antitrust Law, the Foreign Investment Law, the Law of Protection of Personal Information in Possession of Private Entities, and the Federal Consumers Protection Law, all of which play a part in the overall regulation of the sector, in addition to the general commerce and contractual laws. The above mentioned laws also shall be adjusted to the new telecommunication law.The enactment of the new law and the initial measures taken by the IFT in 2014 have increased the dynamism of the Mexican telecommunications market, in which the main players are moving faster and new players are emerging, such as AT&T, which acquired USACELL at the end of 2014.PanamaIn Panama the telecommunications market was privatized in 1997 and deregulated in 2003, and services have seen strong growth since that time. Due to the comparative advantages of the geographical location of Panama there is a significant supply of subsea connections. The telecommunications industry in Panama is regulated by Autoridad Nacional de los Servicios Públicos - ASEP (formerly Ente Regulador de los Servicios Públicos), an independent regulatory body created by General Law 26 (1996) amended in 2006 by decree-law 10.  ASEP is a multi-sector regulator in charge of all Panama utilities including telecommunications.   General Law 31 established the regulatory framework for telecommunications regulation.  This law was last amended in 1999 by Law 24. 32Table of ContentsPeruThe telecommunications industry in Peru is regulated by the Supervisory Authority for Private Investment in Telecommunications (“OSIPTEL”) and the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (“MTC”).  OSIPTEL is an independent regulatory body attached to the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers.Under Peruvian law, the provision of public telecommunications services requires a concession.  The functions related to the issuance of concessions and market access registration and the assignment of the radio spectrum for public telecommunications services are managed by the MTC’s General Directorate of Concessions in Telecommunications.  Since market liberalization became effective in August 1998, there has been no limitation on the issuance of concessions, except for services subject to natural limitations on grounds of scarce resources, as in the case of the radio spectrum.During 2014, National Congress submitted a General Telecommunication Bill which would modify the existing general regulatory regime. As of December 2014, the bill is still under debate and has not yet been passed.UruguayThe telecom market in Uruguay is highly regulated. The Executive Branch, through the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining, is the final authority in regards with telecom matters, while the Telecom National Office (Dirección Nacional de Telecomunicaciones) works as a general advisory body and  the Communication Services Regulatory Unit URSEC (Unidad Reguladora de Servicios de Comunicaciones) participates as a regulatory agency.To provide telecommunications services, it is necessary to hold a license.  Moreover, if the service also requires the assignment of spectrum, it is also necessary to have a concession.  The Executive Branch grants licenses to broadcast and also grants assignments of spectrum with a fixed term.  URSEC is entitled to grant licenses and concessions in all the remaining cases. The international long distance telephony is a closed market with approximately ten players operating in that market.  Through our Uruguayan branch “GC Sac Argetina SRL Sucursal Uruguay,” we are licensed as a long distance service provider.VenezuelaThe Venezuelan telecommunications industry is regulated by the Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (“CONATEL of Venezuela”), which is ascribed to and under the purview of the Minister of People’s Power for Communication and Information. Venezuela opened its telecommunications market to competition on November 28, 2000.  In 2007, the Venezuelan government nationalized the incumbent telecommunications operator, CANTV.  In December 2010, the government issued a new law declaring that the provision of telecommunications services is an activity of the “public domain.”  To date, the government has not indicated its intent to expand nationalization within the telecommunications sector.Asian RegulationThe status of liberalization of the telecommunications regulatory regimes of the Asian countries in which we operate or may in the future operate varies. Some countries allow full competition in the telecommunications sector, while others limit competition for many or most services. Similarly, some countries in Asia maintain foreign ownership restrictions which limit the amount of foreign direct investment and require foreign companies to seek local joint venture partners. 33Table of ContentsMost of the countries in the region have committed to liberalizing their telecommunications regimes and opening their telecommunications markets to foreign investment as part of the World Trade Organization Agreement on Basic Telecommunications Services, which came into force in 1998.  Additionally, the United States has entered into bilateral Free Trade Agreements with Singapore, Australia and South Korea that became effective in 2003, 2005 and 2012, respectively. We cannot predict what effect, if any, these agreements will have on other countries in the region or whether the U.S. will pursue similar agreements with other countries. We also cannot be certain whether this liberalizing trend will continue or accurately predict the pace and scope of liberalization. It is possible that one or more of the countries in which we operate or may in the future operate will slow or halt the liberalization of its telecommunications markets. The effect on us of such an action cannot be accurately predicted.The telecommunications regulatory regimes of many Asian countries are in the process of development. Many issues, such as regulation of incumbent providers, interconnection, unbundling of local loops, resale of telecommunications services, offering of voice services and pricing have not been addressed fully or at all. We cannot accurately predict whether or how these issues will be resolved and their effect on our operations in Asia.Glossary of TermsaccessTelecommunications services that permit long distance carriers to use local exchange facilities to originate and/or terminate long distance service.access chargesThe fees paid by long distance carriers to LECs for originating and terminating long distance calls on the LECs' local networks.ATMAsynchronous transfer mode. An information transfer standard that is one of a general class of packet technologies that relay traffic by way of an address contained within the first five bytes of a standard fifty‑three byte long packet or cell. The ATM format can be used by many different information systems, including LANs, to deliver traffic at varying rates, permitting a mix of data, voice and video.backboneA high-speed network that interconnects smaller, independent networks. It is the through‑portion of a transmission network, as opposed to spurs which branch off the through‑portions.CAPCompetitive Access Provider. A company that provides its customers with an alternative to the local exchange company for local transport of private line and special access telecommunications services.cachingA process by which a Web storage device or cache is located between Web servers (or origin servers) and a user, and watches requests for HTML pages and objects such as images, audio, and video, then saves a copy for itself. If there is another request for the same object, the cache will use its copy, instead of asking the origin server for it again.capacityThe information carrying ability of a communications facility.carrierA provider of communications transmission services by fiber, wire or radio.CDNContent Distribution Network or CDN describes a system of computers networked together across the Internet that cooperate transparently to deliver various types of content to end users. The delivery process is optimized generally for either performance or cost. When optimizing for performance, locations that can serve content quickly to the user are chosen. When optimizing for cost, locations that are less expensive to serve from may be chosen instead.central officeTelephone company facility where subscribers' lines are joined to switching equipment for connecting other subscribers to each other, locally and long distance.CLECCompetitive Local Exchange Carrier. A company that competes with ILECs in the local services market. 34Table of Contentsco-carrierA relationship between a CLEC and an ILEC that affords each company the same access to and right on the other's network and provides access and services on an equal basis.common carrierA government defined group of private companies offering telecommunications services or facilities to the general public on a non-discriminatory basis.conduitA pipe, usually made of metal, ceramic or plastic, that protects buried cables.dark fiberFiber optic strands that are not connected to transmission equipment.dedicated linesTelecommunications lines reserved for use by particular customers.facilities based carriersCarriers that own and operate their own network and equipment.fiber opticsA technology in which light is used to transport information from one point to another. Fiber optic cables are thin filaments of glass through which light beams are transmitted over long distances carrying enormous amounts of data. Modulating light on thin strands of glass produces major benefits including high bandwidth, relatively low cost, low power consumption, small space needs and total insensitivity to electromagnetic interference.GatewayGateways are the primary technical facilities in the markets we serve. They are the endpoints of each long haul city-pair segment. Where we have metro rings, they are the locations most metro rings home to.GbpsGigabits per second. A transmission rate. One gigabit equals 1.024 billion bits of information.ISDNIntegrated Services Digital Network. An information transfer standard for transmitting digital voice and data over telephone lines at speeds up to 128 Kbps.ILECIncumbent Local Exchange Carrier. A company historically providing local telephone service. Often refers to one of the Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOCs). Often referred to as "LEC" (Local Exchange Carrier).InterconnectionInterconnection of facilities between or among the networks of carriers, including potential physical colocation of one carrier's equipment in the other carrier's premises to facilitate such interconnection.ISPsInternet Service Providers. Companies formed to provide access to the Internet to consumers and business customers via local networks.IXCInterexchange Carrier. A telecommunications company that provides telecommunications services between local exchanges on an interstate or intrastate basis.KbpsKilobits per second. A transmission rate. One kilobit equals 1,024 bits of information.LATALocal Access and Transport Area. A geographic area composed of contiguous local exchanges, usually but not always within a single state. There are approximately 200 LATAs in the United States.leased lineAn amount of telecommunications capacity dedicated to a particular customer along predetermined routes.LECLocal Exchange Carrier. A telecommunications company that provides telecommunications services in a geographic area. LECs include both ILECs and CLECs.local exchangeA geographic area determined by the appropriate state regulatory authority in which calls generally are transmitted without toll charges to the calling or called party.local loopA circuit that connects an end user to the LEC central office within a LATA. 35Table of Contentslong distance carriersLong distance carriers provide services between local exchanges on an interstate or intrastate basis. A long distance carrier may offer services over its own or another carrier's facilities.MbpsMegabits per second. A transmission rate. One megabit equals 1.024 million bits of information.MPLSMultiProtocol Label Switching. A standards approved technology for speeding up network traffic flow and making it easier to manage. MPLS involves setting up a specific path for a given sequence of packets, identified by a label put in each packet, thus saving the time needed for a router or switch to look up the address to the next node to forward the packet to.multiplexingAn electronic or optical process that combines a large number of lower speed transmission lines into one high speed line by splitting the total available bandwidth into narrower bands (frequency division), or by allotting a common channel to several different transmitting devices, one at a time in sequence (time division).PBXPrivate Branch eXchange. A PBX, sometimes known as a phone switch or phone switching device, is a device that connects office telephones in a business with the PSTN. The functions of a PBX include routing incoming calls to the appropriate extension in an office, sharing phone lines between extensions, automated greetings for callers using recorded messages, dialing menus, connections to voicemail, automatic call distribution and teleconferencing.peeringThe commercial practice under which ISPs exchange traffic with each other. Although ISPs are free to make a private commercial arrangement, there are generally two types of peering. With a settlement free peering arrangement the ISPs do not need to pay each other for the exchange of traffic. With paid peering, the larger ISP receives payment from the smaller ISP to carry the traffic of that smaller ISP. Peering occurs at both public and private exchange points.POPPoint of Presence. Telecommunications facility where a communications provider locates network equipment used to connect customers to its network backbone.private lineA dedicated telecommunications connection between end user locations.PSTNPublic Switched Telephone Network. That portion of a local exchange company's network available to all users generally on a shared basis (i.e., not dedicated to a particular user). Traffic along the public switched network is generally switched at the local exchange company's central offices.RBOCsRegional Bell Operating Companies. Originally, the seven local telephone companies established as a result of the divestitures of AT&T in connection with its settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice of an antitrust lawsuit.reciprocal compensationThe compensation of a CLEC for termination of a local call by the ILEC on the CLEC's network, which is the same as the compensation that the CLEC pays the ILEC for termination of local calls on the ILEC's network.resaleResale by a provider of telecommunications services (such as a LEC) of such services to other providers or carriers on a wholesale or a retail basis.routerEquipment placed between networks that relays data to those networks based upon a destination address contained in the data packets being routed.selective routerTelephone switch or functional equivalent, controlled by the relevant local exchange carrier (LEC), which determines the public safety answering point to which a 911 call should be delivered based on the location of the 911 caller.SONETSynchronous Optical Network. An electronics and network architecture for variable bandwidth products which enables transmission of voice, data and video (multimedia) at very high speeds. SONET ring architecture provides for virtually instantaneous restoration of service in the event of a fiber cut or equipment failure by automatically rerouting traffic in the opposite direction around the ring. 36Table of Contentsspecial access servicesThe lease of private, dedicated telecommunications lines or "circuits" along the network of a local exchange company or a CAP, which lines or circuits run to or from the long distance carrier POPs. Examples of special access services are telecommunications lines running between POPs of a single long distance carrier, from one long distance carrier POP to the POP of another long distance carrier or from an end user to a long distance carrier POP.streamingStreaming is the delivery of media, such as movies and live presentations, over a network in real time. A computer (a streaming server) sends the media to another computer (a client computer), which plays the media as it is delivered.switchA device that selects the paths or circuits to be used for transmission of information and establishes a connection. Switching is the process of interconnecting circuits to form a transmission path between users and it also captures information for billing purposes.TbpsTerabits per second. A transmission rate. One terabit equals 1.024 trillion bits of information.TDMTime Division Multiplexing. A technology that transmits multiple signals simultaneously over a single transmission path.unbundledServices, programs, software and training sold separately from the hardware.unbundled accessAccess to unbundled elements of a telecommunications services provider's network including network facilities, equipment, features, functions and capabilities, at any technically feasible point within such network.VoIPVoice over Internet ProtocolITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS Forward Looking StatementsWe, or our representatives, from time to time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, either orally or in writing, including without limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, information contained in other filings with the SEC, press releases and other public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences with investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and conferences may include forward-looking statements. We use words like “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “goal,” “seek,” “project,” “strategy,” “future,” “likely,” “may,” “should,” “will” and similar references to future periods to identify forward-looking statements.We wish to ensure that all forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that this list of important factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations, and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which  37Table of Contentsare outside of our control. We cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the effect, if any, of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Further, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations.For more information about our results of operations and financial condition, you should see the discussion included under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” appearing later in this Form 10-K.Risks Related to our Business OperationsWe need to increase Core Network Services revenue from the services that we offer to realize our targets for financial and operating performance.We must increase Core Network Services revenue at acceptable margins to realize our targets for financial and operating performance, including free cash flow. If:•we do not avoid excessive customer churn or improve our current relationships with existing key customers;•we are not able to expand the available capacity on our network to meet our customers’ demands in a timely manner; or•our customers determine to obtain these services from either their own network or from one of our competitors,we may not be able to increase or maintain our Core Network Services revenue at acceptable margins as well as our free cash flow, which would adversely affect our ability to become and/or remain profitable.Although we expect that the acquisition of tw telecom will result in benefits to us, we may not realize those benefits because of integration difficulties and other challenges.The success of our acquisition of tw telecom depends in large part on the success of management in integrating the operations, strategies, technologies, network infrastructure and personnel of the two companies. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the tw telecom acquisition if the integration process takes longer or is more costly than expected. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of tw telecom or to otherwise realize any of the anticipated benefits of the tw telecom acquisition could impair our operations. In addition, we anticipate that the overall integration of tw telecom will be a time-consuming and expensive process that, without proper planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our business.            Potential difficulties the combined business may encounter in the integration process include the following:•the integration of management teams, strategies, technologies, operations, accounting and data processing systems, management controls, products and services; •the disruption of ongoing businesses and distraction of the management team from ongoing business concerns; •the retention of the existing customers and/or vendors of both companies;  38Table of Contents•the consolidation and rationalization of network infrastructure to reduce third party costs and improve profitability; •the reduction of costs associated with each company’s operations; •the creation of uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; •the consolidation and rationalization of information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures; •the integration of corporate cultures and maintenance of employee morale; •the retention of key employees; and •potential unknown liabilities associated with the tw telecom acquisition. The anticipated benefits and synergies include the combination of offices in various locations and the elimination of numerous technology systems, duplicative personnel and duplicative market and other data sources. However, these anticipated benefits and synergies assume a successful integration and are based on projections, which are inherently uncertain, and other assumptions. Even if integration is successful, anticipated benefits and synergies may not be achieved.Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems and uniform standards, controls and policies to implement customer orders and to provide and bill for services.Our business depends on our ability to continue to develop and manage effective business support systems. In certain cases, the development of these business support systems is required to realize anticipated benefits from both past and future acquisitions. The development and management of business support systems is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise, the development of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the efficient consolidation and elimination of business support systems that are no longer useful in the business.  This undertaking also requires support from third-party vendors. Following the development of the business support systems, the data migration regarding network and circuit inventory must be completed for the full benefit of the systems to be realized. Business support systems are needed for:•quoting, accepting and inputting customer orders for services;•provisioning, installing and delivering services;•providing customers with direct access to our information systems so that they can manage the services that they purchase from us, generally through web-based customer portals; and•billing for services.Because our business provides for continued rapid growth in the number of customers that we serve, the volume of services offered as well as the integration of any acquired companies’ business support systems, there is a need to continually develop our business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed milestone dates. The failure to continue to develop effective unified business support systems or complete the data migration regarding network and circuit inventory into these systems could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans and realize anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. 39Table of ContentsWe may lose customers if we experience system failures that significantly disrupt the availability and quality of the services that we provide. System failures may also cause interruptions to service delivery and the completion of other corporate functions.Our operations depend on our ability to limit and mitigate interruptions or degradation in service for customers. Interruptions in service or performance problems for whatever reason, including integration related activities, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In addition, because many of our services are critical to the businesses of many of our customers, any significant interruption or degradation in service could result in lost profits or other losses to customers. Although we generally limit our liability for service failures in our service agreements to limited service credits (generally in the form of free service for a short period of time) and generally exclude any liability for “consequential” damages such as lost profits, a court might not enforce these limitations on liability in the manner contemplated, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide our customers with committed service levels. If we are unable to meet these service level commitments, we may be obligated to provide service credits or other compensation to our customers.  Because we offer emergency notification services referred to as “911” services, any significant interruption or degradation in those services could create legal and financial exposure.The failure of any equipment or facility on our network, including our network operations control centers and network data storage locations, could result in the interruption of customer service and other corporate functions until necessary repairs are effected or replacement equipment is installed. In addition, our business continuity plans may not be adequate to address a particular failure that we experience. Delays, errors, network equipment or network facility failures, including with respect to our network operations control centers and network data storage locations, could also result from natural disasters (including natural disasters that may increase in frequency as a result of the effects of climate change), disease, accidents, terrorist acts, power losses, security breaches, vandalism or other illegal acts, computer viruses, or other causes. Our business could be significantly hurt from these delays, errors, failures or faults including as a result of:•service interruptions;•exposure to customer liability;•the inability to install new service;•the unavailability of employees necessary to provide services;•the delay in the completion of other corporate functions such as issuing bills and the preparation of financial statements; or•the need for expensive modifications to our systems and infrastructure.If our security measures are breached, or if our services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our systems, products and services, we may experience significant legal and financial exposure, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and our business may be disrupted.Network and information systems and other technologies are critical to our business activities. Network and information systems-related events such as computer hackings, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks or other malicious activities, or any combination of the these items, could result in a degradation or disruption of our services, damage to our properties, equipment and data, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We experience cyber-attacks against our network and information systems of  40Table of Contentsvarying degrees on a regular basis, and as a result, unauthorized parties could obtain access to our data or our customers’ data. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise.  Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or customers to disclose sensitive information to gain access to our data or our customers’ data, including information subject to data protection laws and regulations such as the national laws implementing the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. The risk of these systems-related events and security breaches occurring has intensified, in part because we maintain certain information necessary to conduct our businesses in digital form stored on servers connected to the Internet.While we develop and maintain systems and processes designed to prevent systems-related events and security breaches from occurring, the development and maintenance of these systems and processes is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that unauthorized access and security breaches will not occur in the future. In addition, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.Any security breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, including in respect of customer credits, lost revenue due to business interruption, increased expenditures on security measures, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, damage to our reputation and the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could cause us to lose customers. Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance we maintain against losses resulting from unauthorized access or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover our losses or otherwise adequately compensate us for any disruptions to our businesses that may result.Failure to develop and introduce new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry.We continuously develop, test and introduce new services that are delivered over our communications network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace, address the changing communications needs of our existing customers and compete for additional customers.In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on reaching mutually acceptable terms with vendors and on vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner.In addition, new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service offerings and we may be required to impair any assets or technology used to develop or offer those services.If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected.Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage expansions to our operations.We may continue to expand our operations through new product and service offerings and through additional strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, some of which may involve complex technical and operational challenges. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to  41Table of Contentsmanage our expansion opportunities, which pose numerous risks and uncertainties, including the need to integrate new operations into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers, vendors and business partners. In addition, future acquisitions or joint ventures may involve the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which may dilute our stockholders’ ownership.Any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of risks, including:•problems with the effective integration of operations;•inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;•increased operating costs;•exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and•difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings.We continually evaluate potential investments and strategic opportunities to expand, enhance connectivity and add traffic to our network. In the future, we may seek additional investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements, which may expose us to risks such as:•the difficulty of identifying appropriate investments, strategic allies or opportunities on terms acceptable to us;•the possibility that senior management may be required to spend considerable time negotiating agreements and monitoring these arrangements;•potential regulatory issues applicable to the telecommunications industry;•the loss or reduction in value of the capital investment;•our inability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by these arrangements; and•the possibility of insolvency of a strategic ally.We cannot assure you that our future expansion or acquisition opportunities will be successful, or that we will realize expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits.Our future growth depends upon the continued development and expansion of the Internet as a communications medium and marketplace for the distribution and consumption of data and video by businesses, consumers and governments.Achieving the anticipated benefits of our business operations will depend in part upon the continued development and expansion of the Internet as a communications medium and marketplace for the distribution and consumption of data and video by businesses, consumers and governments. The use of the Internet for these purposes may not grow and expand at the rate that we anticipate or may be restricted by such things as:•actions by ISPs or the owners of access networks that restrict us from delivering our customers’ traffic to the users of those networks;•future regulation; 42Table of Contents•a lack of anticipated technology innovation and adoption; or•a lack of continued broadband penetration both in the United States and elsewhere.Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services or subject us to expensive intellectual property litigation.If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services was determined by a court to infringe a patent held by another entity that is unwilling to grant us a license on terms acceptable to us, we could be precluded by a court order from using that technology and we would likely be required to pay a significant monetary damages award to the patent holder. The successful enforcement of these patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for these patents on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the relevant technology and offering services incorporating the technology. In the event that a claim of infringement was brought against us based on the use of our technology or against our customers based on their use of our services for which we are obligated to indemnify, we could be subject to litigation to determine whether such use or sale is, in fact, infringing. This litigation could be expensive and distracting, regardless of the outcome of the suit.While our own patent portfolio may deter other operating companies from bringing such actions, patent infringement claims are increasingly being asserted by patent holding companies, which do not use technology and whose sole business is to enforce patents against operators, such as us, for monetary gain. Because such patent holding companies do not provide services or use technology, the assertion of our own patents by way of counter‑claim would be largely ineffective. We have already been the subject of time-consuming and expensive patent litigation brought by certain patent holding companies and we can reasonably expect that we will face further claims in the future.Our consolidated revenue is concentrated in a limited number of customers.A significant portion of our consolidated revenue is concentrated among a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our top ten customers represented approximately 17% of our total revenue. If we lost one or more of our major customers, or, if one or more of them significantly decreased or terminated orders for our services, our business would be materially and adversely affected.Continued uncertainty in the global financial markets and the global economy may negatively affect our financial results.Continued uncertainty in the global financial markets and economy may negatively affect our financial results. A prolonged period of economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and exacerbate some of the other risk factors we describe herein. Our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected if, as a result of economic conditions:•customers cancel, defer or forgo purchases of our services;•customers are unable to make timely payments to us;•the demand for, and prices of, our services are reduced as a result of actions by our competitors or otherwise;•key suppliers upon which we rely are unwilling or unable to provide us with the materials we need for our network on a timely basis or on terms that we find acceptable; or 43Table of Contents•our financial counterparties, insurance providers or other contractual counterparties are unable to, or do not meet, their contractual commitments to us.We have generated substantial net losses in the past and may continue to do so.While we did have net income of $314 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, we incurred net losses of approximately $109 million and $422 million, respectively for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.  Although we anticipate that our operating results will continue to improve over time, there can be no assurance that the recent level of operating results will continue and that currently anticipated future operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that we will be able to sustain profitability in the future. Continued net losses could limit our ability to fund expansions of our network, investments in our products and services, interest and principal payments on our debt, or other business needs.Our actual financial position and operations after the completion of the tw telecom acquisition may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial information that has been previously disclosed.Our unaudited pro forma combined financial statements and unaudited pro forma per share data filed with the SEC are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of what our actual financial position or results of operations would have been had the tw telecom acquisition been completed on the dates indicated. Our actual results and financial position after the tw telecom acquisition may differ materially and adversely from the unaudited pro forma financial data.Future expansion or adaptation of our network will require substantial resources, which may not be available at the time.We will need to continue to expand and adapt our network to remain competitive, which may require significant additional funding. Additional expansion and adaptations of our communications network’s electronic and software components will be necessary to respond to:•growing number of customers;•the development and launching of new services;•increased demands by customers to transmit larger amounts of data;•changes in customers’ service requirements;•technological advances by competitors; and•governmental regulations.Future expansion or adaptation of our network will require substantial additional financial, operational and managerial resources, which may not be available at the time. We may be unable to expand or adapt our network to respond to these developments on a timely basis and at a commercially reasonable cost.The market prices for many of our services have decreased in the past and may decrease in the future, resulting in lower revenue and margins than we anticipate.Over the past few years, the market prices for many of our services have decreased. These decreases resulted from downward market pressure and other factors including: 44Table of Contents•technological changes and network expansions which have resulted in increased transmission capacity available for sale by us and by our competitors;•some of our customer agreements contain volume based pricing; and•some of our competitors have been willing to accept smaller operating margins in the short term in an attempt to increase long-term revenue.To retain customers and revenue, we often must reduce prices in response to market conditions and trends. As our prices for some of our services decrease, our operating results may suffer unless we are able to either reduce our operating expenses or increase traffic volume from which we can derive additional revenue.The need to obtain additional capacity for our network from other providers increases our costs. In addition, the need to interconnect our network to networks that are controlled by others could increase our costs.We use network resources owned by other companies for portions of our network. We obtain the right to use such network portions, including both telecommunications capacity and rights to use dark fiber, through operating leases and IRU agreements. In several of those agreements, the counter party is responsible for network maintenance and repair. If a counter party to a lease or IRU suffers financial distress or bankruptcy, we may not be able to enforce our rights to use these network assets or, even if we could continue to use these network assets, we could incur material expenses related to maintenance and repair. We could also incur material expenses if we were required to locate alternative network assets. We may not be successful in obtaining reasonable alternative network assets if needed. Failure to obtain usage of alternative network assets, if necessary, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry on business operations. In addition, some of our agreements with other providers require the payment of amounts for services whether or not those services are used.In the normal course of business, we need to enter into interconnection agreements, including IP interconnection for voice and data services, with many domestic and foreign local telephone companies as well as the owners of networks that our customers desire to access to deliver their services. We are not always able to secure these interconnection agreements on favorable terms.Costs of obtaining service from other communications carriers comprise a significant proportion of the operating expenses of long distance carriers. Similarly, a large proportion of the costs of providing international service consists of payments to other carriers. Changes in regulation, particularly the regulation of local and international telecommunication carriers and local access network owners, could indirectly, but significantly, affect our competitive position. These changes could increase or decrease the costs of providing our services.Our operations are subject to regulation in each of the countries in which we operate and require us to obtain and maintain a number of governmental licenses and permits. If we fail to comply with those regulatory requirements or to obtain and maintain those licenses and permits, including payment of related fees, if any, we may not be able to conduct our business in that jurisdiction. Moreover, those regulatory requirements could change in a manner that significantly increases our costs or otherwise adversely affects our operations.In the ordinary course of constructing our networks and providing our services, we are required to obtain and maintain a variety of telecommunications and other licenses and authorizations in the countries in which we operate, as well as rights-of-way from utilities, railroads, incumbent carriers and other persons. We also must comply with a variety of regulatory obligations. Due to the political and economic risks associated with the countries in which we operate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our licenses or that they will be renewed upon their expiration. Our failure to obtain or  45Table of Contentsmaintain necessary licenses, authorizations and rights-of-way, or to comply with the obligations imposed upon license holders including the payment of fees, in one or more countries, may result in sanctions or additional costs, including the revocation of authority to provide services in one or more countries.In addition, our subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits that, among other things, challenge the subsidiaries’ use of rights-of-way. The plaintiffs have sought to have these lawsuits certified as class actions. It is possible that additional suits challenging use of our rights-of-way will be filed and that those plaintiffs also may seek class certification. The outcome of such litigation may increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results.Our operations around the world are subject to regulation at the regional level (for example, the European Union), the national level (for example, the FCC) and, in many cases, at the state, provincial, and local levels. We also operate in some areas of the world without licenses, but only as permitted through relationships with locally licensed partners.  The regulation of telecommunications networks and services around the world varies widely. In some countries, the range of services that we are legally permitted to provide may be limited, or may change. In other countries, existing telecommunications legislation is in the process of development, is unclear or inconsistent, or is applied in an unequal or discriminatory fashion, or inadequate judicial, regulatory or other forums are available to address these inadequacies or disputes. Changes to existing regulations or rules, or the failure to regulate going forward in areas which have historically been regulated on matters such as network neutrality, licensing fees, environmental, health and safety, privacy, intercarrier compensation, interconnection and other areas, in general or particular to our industry, may increase costs, restrict operations or decrease revenue. Our inability or failure to comply with the telecommunications and other laws and regulations of one or more of the countries in which we operate could result in the temporary or permanent suspension of operations in one or more countries. We also may be prohibited from entering certain countries at all or from providing all of our services in one or more countries. In addition, many of the countries in which we operate are conducting regulatory or other proceedings that will affect the implementation of their telecommunications legislation. We cannot be certain of the outcome of these proceedings. These proceedings may affect the manner in which we are permitted to provide our services in these countries as well as the level of fees and taxes payable to the government.Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and additional costs.Our business is dependent on third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components as well as providers of network colocation facilities and right of way rights that are integrated into our network, some of which are critical to the operation of our business.  If any of these critical relationships is terminated, a supplier either exits or curtails its business as a result of economic conditions, a supplier fails to provide critical rights of use, services or equipment, or the supplier is forced to stop providing services due to legal constraints, such as patent infringement, and we are unable to reach suitable alternative arrangements quickly, we may experience significant additional costs or we may not be able to provide certain services to customers.ILECs may not provide us local access services at prices that allow us to effectively compete.We acquire a significant portion of our local access services, the connection between our owned network and the customer premises, from incumbent local exchange carriers or ILECs. The ILECs compete directly with our business and may have a tendency to favor themselves and their affiliates to our detriment. For instance, at the end of 2013, AT&T attempted to eliminate its longer term plans (and correspondingly larger discounts) used routinely by us to purchase certain local access services from AT&T.  The price increases we would have seen as the result of the loss of these larger discounts, price increases we would have had little choice but to pass on to our customers, would have made competing with AT&T in its operating region more difficult.  We and others objected to AT&T’s filings at the FCC, and following FCC intervention, AT&T withdrew these unilateral price increases.  We are unable to predict  46Table of Contentswhat AT&T may try next, and what other incumbent telephone companies may pursue in this regard. Network access represents a very large portion of our total costs and if we face less favorable pricing and provisioning timeframes, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to the ILECs.In some instances it is expensive and difficult to switch new customers to our network, and lack of cooperation of incumbent carriers can slow the new customer connection process.It is expensive, difficult and time-consuming for new customers to switch to our network if we require cooperation from the incumbent carrier in instances where there is no direct connection between the customer and our network. Many of our principal competitors, the domestic and international incumbent carriers, are already established providers of local telephone services to all or virtually all telephone subscribers within their respective service areas. Their physical connections from their premises to those of their customers are expensive and difficult to duplicate. To complete the new customer provisioning process for a customer’s location that is not located on our network, we rely on the incumbent carrier to process certain information. The incumbent carriers have a financial interest in retaining their customers, which could reduce their willingness to cooperate with our new customer provisioning requests, thereby adversely affecting our ability to compete and increase revenue. Further consolidation of incumbent carriers with other telecommunications service providers may make these problems more acute.We may be liable for the information that content owners or distributors distribute over our network.The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. While we disclaim any liability for third-party content in our services agreements, we may become subject to legal claims relating to the content disseminated on our network, even though such content is owned or distributed by our customers or a customer of our customers. For example, lawsuits may be brought against us claiming that material distributed using our network was inaccurate, offensive, or violated the law or the rights of others. Claims could also involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy and copyright infringement. In addition, the law remains unclear over whether content may be distributed from one jurisdiction, where the content is legal, into another jurisdiction, where it is not. Companies operating private networks have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the nature of material distributed, even if the content is not owned by the network operator and the network operator has no knowledge of the content or its legality. It is not practical for us to monitor all of the content that is distributed using our network. We may need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks or to defend ourselves against such claims.We may not be able to efficiently and effectively integrate future acquired operations and thus may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from those future acquisitions.Achieving the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions depends in part upon whether we can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may acquire businesses in accordance with our business strategy. The integration of any acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to:•demands on management related to any significant increase in size after the acquisition;•the disruption of ongoing business and the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to management of integration activities;•failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; 47Table of Contents•unanticipated impediments in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records, procedures and policies, as well as in maintaining uniform standards and controls, including internal control over financial reporting;•loss of customers or the failure of customers to order incremental services that we expect them to order;•failure to provision services that are ordered by customers during the integration period;•higher integration costs than anticipated; and•difficulties in the assimilation and retention of highly qualified, experienced employees, many of whom may be geographically dispersed.Successful integration of acquired businesses or operations depends on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, obtain better terms from our vendors due to increased buying power, and eliminate redundant and excess costs to fully realize the expected synergies. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations and systems which may not be fully compatible, we may not be able to achieve these objectives.We cannot be certain that we will realize our anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, or that we will be able to efficiently and effectively integrate acquired operations as planned.Changes in regulations affecting commercial power providers may increase our costs.In the normal course of business, we need to enter into agreements with many providers of commercial power for our office, network, Gateway facilities, and colocation and data center facilities. Costs of obtaining commercial power comprise a significant component of our operating expenses. Changes in regulations that affect commercial power providers, particularly regulations related to the control of greenhouse gas emissions or other climate change related matters, could affect the costs of commercial power, which may increase the costs of providing our services.Potential regulation of Internet service providers in the United States could adversely affect our operations.In the United States, the FCC has, to date, treated Internet service providers as enhanced service providers. In addition, Congress has, to date, not sought to heavily regulate the provision of IP-based services. Both Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that involve greater regulation of IP-based service providers. Depending on the content and scope of any regulations, the imposition of such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and the profitability of our services.The communications industry is highly competitive with participants that have greater resources and a greater number of existing customers.The communications industry is highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have financial, personnel, marketing and other resources significantly greater than ours. Many of these competitors have the added competitive advantage of a larger existing customer base. In addition, significant new or increased competition could arise as a result of:•the consolidation in the industry;•allowing foreign carriers to more extensively compete in the U.S. market; 48Table of Contents•further technological advances; and•further deregulation and other regulatory initiatives.In addition, future significant competitors could include new entrants to the communications industry such as content companies that have existing significant customer bases and substantial cash resources that are greater than ours.  If we are unable to compete successfully, our business could be significantly affected.Rapid technological changes can lead to further competition.The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. In addition, the introduction of new services or technologies, as well as the further development of existing services and technologies, may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those that we provide. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to the communications industry. These new entrants may not be burdened by an installed base of outdated equipment or obsolete technology. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes.Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect the business.We have operations and investments outside of the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries, that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include:•general economic, social and political conditions;•the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;•tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in the United States;•foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments;•foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;•difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines;•difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and•changes in laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment.We are exposed to significant currency exchange rate risks and currency transfer restrictions and our results may suffer due to currency translations and remeasurements.Certain of our current and prospective customers derive their revenue in currencies other than U.S. dollars but are invoiced by us in U.S. dollars. The obligations of customers with substantial revenue in foreign currencies may be subject to unpredictable and indeterminate increases in the event that such  49Table of Contentscurrencies depreciate in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, these customers may become subject to exchange control regulations restricting the conversion of their revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. In either event, the affected customers may not be able to pay us in U.S. dollars. Similarly, declines in the value of foreign currencies (such as the devaluation of the Brazilian real, Venezuelan bolivar and the Argentine peso discussed below) relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our ability to market our services to customers whose revenue is denominated in those currencies. In addition, where we issue invoices for our services in currencies other than U.S. dollars, our net loss may suffer due to currency translations in the event that such currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar and we cannot or do not elect to enter into currency hedging arrangements in respect of those payment obligations.We conduct a significant portion of our business using the British pound, the euro and the Brazilian real. Appreciation of the U.S. dollar adversely affects our consolidated revenue. Since we tend to incur costs in the same currency in which those operations realize revenue, the effect on operating income and operating cash flow is largely mitigated. However, if the U.S. dollar appreciates significantly, future revenue, operating income and operating cash flows could be materially affected. In addition, the appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies reduces the U.S. dollar value of cash balances held in those currencies.Certain Latin American economies (such as Venezuela and Argentina) have experienced shortages in foreign currency reserves and have adopted restrictions on the use of certain mechanisms to expatriate local earnings and convert local currencies into U.S. dollars. Any of these shortages or restrictions may limit or impede our ability to transfer or to convert those currencies into U.S. dollars and to expatriate those funds. In addition, currency devaluations in one country may have adverse effects in another country.In Venezuela, the official bolivares-U.S. dollar exchange rate established by the Venezuelan Central Bank (“BCV”) and the Venezuelan Ministry of Finance has historically attributed to the bolivar a value significantly greater than the value that prevailed on the former unregulated parallel market. Venezuela has had an exchange control regime since 2002. Currently, such control consists of a fixed rate of exchange of Bs.6.2842 = US$1.00 for purchase operations and Bs.6.30 = US$1.00 for sale operations and for payments of public external debt, with foreign currency being allocated by the government for priority imports of goods, services and payment of certain indebtedness (the “official exchange rate”). Since the establishment of exchange controls in 2002, Venezuela, through the Foreign Currency Administration Commission (“CADIVI”) and continuing with the establishment of the National Center for Foreign Trade (“CENCOEX”), has administered an approval process for the allocation of foreign exchange at the controlled exchange rates, for payments to foreign companies in various economic sectors. Because of the detailed review process undertaken by these agencies and the complexity of the task involved in such process, delays have accumulated in the provision of foreign exchange to settle amounts outstanding to such companies. This situation has generated delays in the importation of goods and the accumulation of debts owed by importers to foreign suppliers. Effective January 12, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued the Venezuelan bolivar by increasing the official rate from 2.15 Venezuelan bolivares to the U.S. dollar to 4.30 for goods and services deemed “non-essential” and 2.60 for goods and services deemed “essential”. Effective January 1, 2011, the Venezuelan government further increased the official rate for goods deemed “essential” to 4.30 Venezuelan bolivares to the U.S. dollar. Effective February 13, 2013, the Venezuelan government further devalued the Venezuelan bolivar by increasing the official rate to 6.30 Venezuelan bolivares to the U.S. dollar, except for a limited set of goods and services deemed “essential”.In an attempt to control inflation, on May 18, 2010, the Venezuelan government announced that the BCV would be given control over the previously unregulated portions of the exchange market. In June 2010, a new regulated currency trading system controlled by the BCV, the Transaction System for Foreign  50Table of ContentsCurrency Denominated Securities (“SITME”), commenced operations and established an initial weighted average implicit exchange rate of approximately 5.30 bolivares to the U.S. dollar. Subject to the limitations and restrictions imposed by the BCV, entities domiciled in Venezuela were permitted to access the SITME by buying U.S. dollar denominated securities through banks authorized by the BCV. SITME was intended to supplement the CADIVI application and approval process with an additional process that allowed for quicker and smaller exchanges, albeit at a less favorable exchange rate. However, in connection with the February 13, 2013 devaluation of the bolivar, the Venezuelan government also announced the elimination of the SITME. In lieu of the SITME mechanism, the Venezuelan Government introduced the SICAD (Complementary System for Administration of Foreign Currency), a new currency trading system controlled by the BCV. Whereas SITME used a fixed exchange rate, SICAD is intended to be an auction of public foreign currency denominated securities, which results in a variable exchange rate.We use the SICAD (currently Bs.12=US$1) to record the assets, liabilities and transactions of our Venezuelan subsidiary since the telecom sector is officially subject to such exchange rate.  The most recent auction procedure, called the Complementary System for the Administration of Foreign Currency II (“SICAD II”), have involved the purchase and sale of foreign exchange at rates higher than the official exchange rate.  As of December 31, 2014, SICAD II’s exchange rate averaged Bs.49.9 = U,S,$1.00. On February 10, 2015 the Venezuelan government launched a new foreign exchange platform called Marginal Currency System (“SIMADI”), which will be implemented as the third system in the Venezuelan three-tier exchange control mechanism and will allow for legal trading of foreign currency based on supply and demand. According to public announcements, the SICAD I auction system will continue to hold periodic auctions for specific sectors of the economy, while the new SIMADI market will replace the SICAD II rate. While it is still unclear what the new SIMADI exchange rate will be, the new mechanism will likely devalue the bolivar heavily and will affect the rate at which companies measure their assets and liabilities in Venezuela. The acquisition of foreign currency by Venezuelan companies to honor foreign debt, pay dividends or otherwise expatriate capital is subject to the limitations and restrictions of the CENCOEX registration, application and approval process, and is also subject to the availability of foreign currency within the guidelines set forth by the National Executive Power for the allocation of foreign currency. Approvals that were previously under the CADIVI process and are now under the CENCOEX process have been less forthcoming at times, resulting in a significant buildup of excess cash in our Venezuelan subsidiary and a significant increase in our exchange rate and exchange control risks.At December 31, 2014, we had approximately $13 million of obligations registered and subject to approval by CENCOEX for the conversion of bolivares into foreign currencies. We cannot predict the timing and extent of any CADIVI approvals to honor foreign debt, distribute dividends or otherwise expatriate capital using the official Venezuelan exchange rate. Some approvals have been issued within a few months while others have taken more than one year. In 2014, we received $2 million of approvals from CENCOEX to convert bolivares to U.S. dollars at both the essential and non-essential official rates.As of December 31, 2014, our Venezuelan subsidiary had $198 million of net assets including $68 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $5 million was held in U.S. dollars and $63 million was held in Venezuelan bolivares. In light of the Venezuelan exchange control regime, none of these net assets (other than the $5 million of cash denominated in U.S. dollars and held outside of Venezuela) may be transferred to Level 3 or any other subsidiary of Level 3 in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends without the consent of a third-party (that is, CENCOEX).In addition, on January 24, 2014, the Venezuelan government approved a new Law on Fair Prices, which provides that the maximum profit margin for all of the activities related to the production, manufacturing, import, storage, transportation, distribution and marketing of all goods and services in the territory of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela shall not exceed 30% per year. It is unclear how this new law may affect our operations in Venezuela and our current pricing structure in that country. 51Table of ContentsThe effects on revenue and operating income of any future bolivares devaluations are not expected to be material in light of certain pricing adjustment mechanisms in many of our contracts with Venezuelan customers and since most of our costs in Venezuela are incurred in bolivares.In Argentina, our financial statements use the official exchange rate as of each relevant date or period-end quoted by Banco de la Nación Argentina, or “Banco Nación.” As of December 31, 2014, the official exchange rate was Argentine pesos 8.45 per $1.00 while the free market rate was approximately Argentine pesos 13.55 per $1.00.  On January 23, 2014, after a series of public announcements of the Argentine National Government, the devaluation of the official exchange rate accelerated and reached Argentine pesos 8.01 per $1.00, which represented the biggest depreciation since 2002.  Following such depreciation, during 2014 the Argentine peso continued to devaluate progressively to Argentine pesos 8.45 per $1.00 in December 31, 2014.  It is unclear whether further measures by the Argentine National Government may accelerate the depreciation of the Argentine peso during 2015.Economic and political conditions in Latin America pose numerous risks to our operations.Our business operations in the Latin American region constitute a significant portion of our business. As events in the Latin American region have demonstrated, negative economic or political developments in one country in the region can lead to or exacerbate economic or political instability elsewhere in the region. Furthermore, events in recent years other developing markets have placed pressures on the stability of the currencies of a number of countries in Latin America in which we operate, including Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. While certain areas in the Latin American region have experienced economic growth, this recovery remains fragile. Pressures on local currencies are likely to have an adverse effect on our customers in this region. Volatility in regional currencies and capital markets could also have an adverse effect on our ability and that of our customers to gain access to international capital markets for necessary financing, refinancing and repatriation of earnings. Foreign currency exchange controls are currently in effect in Venezuela and Argentina, and have adversely affected our ability to repatriate cash balances from those countries.In addition, any changes to the political and economic conditions in certain Latin American countries could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, in January 2007, the Venezuelan National Assembly issued an Enabling Law allowing the President of Venezuela to carry out the nationalization of certain businesses in the electricity and energy sectors, as well as Venezuela’s largest telecommunications company, Compañía Anónima Nacional Teléfonos de Venezuela (“CANTV”). CANTV was nationalized in the same year. A statement from the Venezuelan minister of telecommunications and director of the Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones, the country’s telecommunications regulatory authority, has indicated that the nationalization of CANTV does not imply the nationalization of the telecommunications sector as a whole. However, there can be no assurance that such nationalization plans will not also extend to other businesses in the telecommunications sector, including our business. The government also announced plans to modify the telecommunications law, and we cannot predict the effect of these amendments to our business. In addition, a referendum held on February 15, 2009, approved an amendment to the nation’s constitution removing presidential term limits.Inflation and certain government measures to curb inflation in some Latin American countries may have adverse effects on their economies and our business and operations in those locations.Some Latin American countries, including Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina, have historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation and some measures implemented to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the economies of these countries. Governmental actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty at times in most Latin American countries. These countries may experience high levels of inflation in the future that could lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the  52Table of Contentsintroduction of government policies that could adversely affect our results of operations in those locations. In addition, if any of these countries experience high rates of inflation, we may not be able to adjust the price of our services sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structures in those locations. A high inflation environment would also have negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment and adversely affect our business.Our agreements with certain agencies of the U.S. Government impose significant requirements on us. A violation of those agreements could have severe consequences.We are a party to an agreement with the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security, Justice and Defense addressing the U.S. government’s national security and law enforcement concerns. This agreement imposes significant requirements on us related to information storage and management; traffic management; physical, logical, and network security arrangements; personnel screening and training; and other matters. We are also party to an agreement with the U.S. Department of Defense addressing the U.S. government’s national security concerns. This agreement imposes significant requirements on us related to the composition and qualifications of the Level 3 Communications, Inc. board of directors; the limitation of the influence or control over us of non-U.S. persons; physical, logical, and network security arrangements; and other matters.While we expect to continue to comply fully with our obligations under both of the above-mentioned agreements, it is impossible to eliminate completely the risk of a violation of either. The consequences of a violation of these agreements could be severe, potentially including the revocation of our FCC licenses in the U.S., which would result in the cessation of our U.S. operations, and/or the loss of permissions required to do business with the U.S. Government.We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and other anticorruption laws, and our failure to comply therewith could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business.We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Although we have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, there can be no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we acquire. We currently operate and in the future may operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential anticorruption violations. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures. Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could have an adverse effect on our business.The U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the “Bribery Act”) reformed the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) law in relation to bribery and corruption. As well as containing provisions concerning bribery of public officials, the Bribery Act includes a criminal offense of failing to prevent bribery by relevant commercial organizations. This offense applies when any person associated with the organization offers or accepts bribery anywhere in the world intending to obtain or retain a business advantage for the organization or in the conduct of business. The Bribery Act has wide ranging implications in particular for business in the U.K., including our subsidiaries. However, it should be noted that it also has a wide-ranging extra-territorial effect. The Bribery Act is broader in scope than the FCPA in that it directly addresses commercial bribery in addition to bribery of government officials and it does not recognize certain exceptions, notably facilitation payments that are permitted by the FCPA. Under the Bribery Act, it is a defense to the accusation of failure to prevent bribery for a commercial organization to show that it had in place “adequate procedures” designed to prevent such acts.  53Table of ContentsAs with the FCPA, if we are not in compliance with the Bribery Act as well as similar laws in the U.K. or elsewhere, such as The Federal Law n. 12.846/13, which is known as the “Brazilian Anti-corruption Law” that became effective on February 2, 2014, that are applicable to our business, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures.Risks Related to Our Liquidity and Financial ResourcesDisruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on reasonable terms (or at all), and have other adverse effects on us.Disruptions in the commercial credit markets could result in a tightening of credit markets. The effects of recent credit market disruptions were widespread, and it is impossible to predict whether the improvement in the global credit markets will continue. As a result of credit market turmoil, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms (or at all), which could affect our strategic operations and our financial performance and force modifications to our operations.If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of these agreements, and this could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that have been borrowed.If we were unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in any of our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of those agreements. As a result, borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, there can be no assurance that we would be able to make necessary payments to the lenders or that we would be able to find alternative financing. Even if we were able to obtain alternative financing, there can be no assurance that it would be on terms that are acceptable.If we experience a change in control or certain other events, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations to repurchase our outstanding notes as required under our outstanding debt agreements.Upon the occurrence of certain events defined in the various debt agreements relating to our outstanding debt, we are required to make an offer to purchase all of our outstanding notes at a purchase price generally equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon (if any). In addition, to the extent that we are required to make an offer to purchase one of the outstanding issues of our notes, the debt agreements relating to our other issues of notes may require us to repurchase that other debt upon a change in control or termination of trading. We may not have or be able to borrow sufficient funds to pay the purchase price for all the notes tendered by holders seeking to accept the offer to purchase.We have substantial debt, which may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage.Our substantial debt may have important consequences, including the following:•the ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments and capital or other expenditures could be impaired or financing may not be available on acceptable terms; 54Table of Contents•a substantial portion of our cash flows will be used to make principal and interest payments on outstanding debt, reducing the funds otherwise available for operations and future business opportunities;•a substantial decrease in cash flows from operating activities or an increase in expenses could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements and force modifications to operations;•having more debt than certain of our competitors may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and•substantial debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally.We had a ratio of earnings to fixed charges of 1.3 for the year ended December 31, 2014.  We had substantial deficiencies of earnings to cover fixed charges of approximately $71 million, $374 million and $786 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.We may not be able to repay our existing debt; failure to do so or refinance the debt could prevent us from implementing our strategy and realizing anticipated profits.If we were unable to refinance our debt or to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, our ability to operate our business would be impaired.  As of December 31, 2014, we had an aggregate of approximately $11.366 billion of current and long-term debt on a consolidated basis (excluding debt discounts and fair value adjustments), and approximately $6.363 billion of stockholders’ equity. Of the long-term debt, approximately $349 million is due to mature in 2015 (including $333 million of 7% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 that mature on March 15, 2015), $9 million is due to mature in 2016, $8 million is due in 2017 and $308 million is due in 2018, in each case excluding debt discounts and fair value adjustments.Our ability to make interest and principal payments on our debt and borrow additional funds on favorable terms depends on the future performance of the business. If we do not have enough cash flow in the future to make interest or principal payments on its debt, we may be required to refinance all or a part of our debt or to raise additional capital. We cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance our debt or raise additional capital on acceptable terms.Restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements limit our ability to conduct our business and could prevent us from obtaining needed funds in the future.Our debt and financing arrangements contain a number of significant limitations that restrict our ability to, among other things:•borrow additional money or issue guarantees;•pay dividends or other distributions to stockholders;•make investments;•create liens on assets;•sell assets;•enter into sale-leaseback transactions; 55Table of Contents•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•engage in mergers or consolidations.Risks Related to Our Common StockThe unpredictability of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.Our revenue and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. The primary factors, among other things, that may affect our quarterly results include the following:•the timing of costs associated with the operation of our business and integration activities with respect to any completed acquisitions;•demand for our services;•loss of customers or the ability to attract new customers;•changes in pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;•costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses;•changes in regulatory rulings; and•general economic conditions as well as those specific to the communications and related industries.A delay in generating revenue or the timing of recognizing revenue and expenses could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. It is possible that in some future quarters our results may be below analysts’ and investors’ expectations. In these circumstances, the price of our common stock will likely decrease.If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock, we may be unable to fully utilize our net operating loss carry forwards, or NOLs, to reduce our U.S. federal income taxes.As of December 31, 2014, we had NOLs of approximately $10.3 billion for U.S. federal income tax purposes (after taking into account the effects of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)). If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock that result in a cumulative ownership change of more than 50 percentage points by 5% stockholders over a three-year period as determined under rules prescribed by the Code and applicable regulations, annual limitations would be imposed with respect to our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain current deductions against any taxable income we achieve in future periods.We have entered into transactions over the applicable three-year period that, when combined with other changes in ownership that are outside of our control, have resulted in cumulative changes in the ownership of our capital stock. Additional transactions that we enter into, as well as transactions by existing 5% stockholders and transactions by holders that become new 5% stockholders that we do not participate in, could cause us to incur a 50 percentage point ownership change by 5% stockholders and, if we trigger the above noted Code imposed limitations, such transactions would prevent us from fully utilizing NOLs and certain current deductions to reduce our U.S. federal income taxes. In addition, these  56Table of Contentslimitations could cause us not to pursue otherwise favorable acquisitions and other transactions involving our capital stock, or could reduce the net benefits to be realized from any such transactions.In April 2011, we entered into the rights agreement in an effort to deter acquisitions of our common stock that might reduce our ability to use our NOLs.  Under the rights agreement, from and after the record date of April 21, 2011, each share of our common stock carries with it one preferred share purchase right that could discourage a third-party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning Level 3 or otherwise have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Level 3 that other stockholders may view as beneficial. In July 2014, the rights agreement was amended to provide that the rights issued under the rights agreement will expire at or prior to the earliest of:•October 31, 2017; •the time at which the rights are redeemed;•the time at which the rights are exchanged;•the time at which our board of directors determines that the NOLs are utilized in all material respects or that an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, would not adversely effect in any material respect the time period in which we could use the NOLs, or materially impair the amount of the NOLs that we could use in any particular time period, for applicable tax purposes;•October 31, 2015, if approval of the rights agreement as amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock has not been obtained prior to that date; or •a determination by our board of directors, prior to the date that the rights are distributed, that the rights agreement and the rights are no longer in our and our stockholders’ best interests.Under our certificate of incorporation, we are able to issue more shares of our common stock than are currently outstanding. Such future issuances of our common stock may have a dilutive effect on the earnings per share and voting power of our stockholders.Our certificate of incorporation, as currently in effect, authorizes us to issue to up to 433,333,333 shares of our common stock, which is a greater number of shares of common stock than are outstanding. If our Board of Directors elects to issue additional shares of common stock in the future, whether in public offerings, in connection with mergers and acquisitions or otherwise, these additional issuances may dilute the earnings per share and voting power of our stockholders. Depending on the number of shares being issued and the particular circumstances involved, the Board of Directors may be able to complete a particular issuance without further stockholder action.Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws could limit the share price and delay a change of management.Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third-party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors. These provisions, among other things:•prohibit stockholder action by written consent in place of a meeting;•limit the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; 57Table of Contents•limit the right of stockholders to present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual meetings of stockholders; and•authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders.In addition, the terms of most of our long-term debt require that upon a “change in control,” as defined in the agreements that contain the terms and conditions of the long-term debt, we make an offer to purchase the outstanding long term debt at either 100% or 101% of the aggregate principal amount of that long term debt.These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change management. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.If a large number of shares of our common stock is sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital.We cannot predict what effect, if any, future issuances by us of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. In addition, shares of our common stock that we issue in connection with an acquisition may not be subject to resale restrictions. The market price of our common stock could drop significantly if certain large holders of our common stock, or recipients of our common stock in connection with an acquisition, sell all or a significant portion of their shares of common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell these shares other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock in the capital markets.The market price of our common stock has been volatile and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors.The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including:•the depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock;•variations in actual or anticipated operating results;•changes in estimated results by securities analysts;•market conditions in the communications and information services industries;•announcement and performance by competitors;•regulatory actions; and•general economic conditions.In addition, market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the market price or liquidity of our common stock. 58Table of ContentsOther RisksWe have environmental liabilities from our historical operations.There could be environmental liabilities arising from historical operations of our predecessors, for which we may be liable. Our operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, human health and safety.  These laws and regulations include those concerning the use and management of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. We have made and will continue to make significant expenditures relating to our environmental compliance obligations.  Despite our best efforts, we may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements.In connection with certain historical operations, we have responded to or been notified of potential environmental liability at approximately 171 properties as of January 8, 2015. We are engaged in addressing or have liquidated environmental liabilities at 87 of those properties. Of these: (a) we have formal commitments or other potential future costs at 25 sites; (b) there are eight sites with unknown future costs; and (c) there are 54 sites with no likely future costs.  The remaining properties have been dormant for several years. We could potentially be held liable, jointly or severally, and without regard to fault, for the costs of investigation and remediation of these sites. The discovery of additional environmental liabilities related to historical operations or changes in existing environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are exposed to legal proceedings and contingent liabilities that could result in material losses that we have not reserved against.We are party to various legal proceedings and are subject to certain important contingent liabilities described more fully in Note 16, “Commitments, Contingencies and Other Items,” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. If one or more of these legal proceedings or contingent liabilities were to be resolved in a manner adverse to us, we could suffer material losses. Certain of these contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business in addition to the effect of any potential monetary judgment or sanction against us. Furthermore, any legal proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Assets and entities that we have acquired may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse to the entity from which the business was acquired (or its stakeholders).Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business.There can be no assurance that there will not be future terrorist attacks. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly affect our physical facilities or those of our customers. These events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our business.The pension plans previously maintained by Global Crossing and with respect to our operations before 1997 may require additional funding and negatively affects cash flows.Certain North American and European hourly and salaried employees of Global Crossing are covered by defined benefit pension plans. On December 31, 1996, the North American plan was frozen and all employees hired thereafter are not eligible to participate in the plan. The U.K. plans were closed to new employees on December 31, 1999. The pension expense and required contributions to these pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations. As of December 31, 2014, the projected benefit obligation under these  59Table of Contentspension plans and the pension plans with respect to non-Global Crossing operations prior to 1997 was approximately $176 million ($81 million for U.S. plans and $95 million for U.K. plans) and the value of plan assets was approximately $151 million (approximately $75 million for U.S. plans and $76 million for U.K. plans), resulting in these pension plans being underfunded by $25 million. If plan assets perform below expectations, future pension expense and funding obligations will increase, which would have a negative effect on our cash flows from operations.ITEM 1B