ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS." 

<A
NAME="ca1142_item_1._business"> 
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS        

        Unless the context otherwise requires, when we use the words "Level 3," "we," "us" or "our company" in this Form 10-K,
we are referring to Level 3 Communications, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries, unless it is clear from the context or expressly stated that these references are only to Level 3
Communications, Inc. References to our subsidiaries, in addition to our other subsidiaries, include WilTel Communications Group, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company and its subsidiaries,
which we acquired on December 23, 2005. In this 10-K, we may refer to WilTel Communications Group, LLC and its subsidiaries as "WilTel" or "WilTel Communications" and Software
Spectrum, Inc. and its subsidiaries as "Software Spectrum." Throughout this 10-K we use various industry terms and abbreviations, which we have defined in the Glossary of Terms at
the end of this description of our business.

        Through
our operating subsidiaries, we engage primarily in the communications and information services businesses. 


        We
are a facilities based provider (that is, a provider that owns or leases a substantial portion of the plant, property and equipment necessary to provide its services) of a broad range
of integrated communications services. We have created, generally by constructing our own assets, but also through a combination of purchasing and leasing other companies and facilities, our
communications network. Our network is an advanced, international, facilities based communications network. We designed our network to provide communications services, which employ and take advantage
of rapidly improving underlying optical and Internet Protocol technologies. 

        Market and Technology Opportunity.    We believe that ongoing technology advances in both optical and Internet Protocol
technologies have been revolutionizing the communications industry. We also believe that these advances have, and will continue to, facilitate decreases in unit costs for communications service
providers that are able to most effectively take advantage of these technology advances. Service providers that can effectively take advantage of technology improvements and reduce unit costs will be
able to offer lower prices, which, we believe, will stimulate substantial increases in the demand for communications services. We believe there are two primary factors that are continuing to drive
this market dynamic: 

2




 



•Rapidly Improving Technologies. Over the past few years, both Internet Protocol and optical based networking
technologies have undergone extremely rapid innovation, due, in large part, to
market based development of underlying technologies. This rapid technology innovation has resulted in both an improvement in price-performance for optical and Internet Protocol systems, as well as
rapid improvement in the functionality and applications supported by these technologies. For example, these improvements are enabling Voice-over-IP services or VoIP that are
challenging traditional telephone network or PSTN services. We believe that this rapid innovation will continue well into the future across a number of different aspects of the communications
marketplace.
•High Demand Elasticity. We believe decreases in communications services costs and prices cause the development of new
bandwidth-intensive applications, which, over time, result in even more significant increases in bandwidth demand. In addition, we believe that communications services are direct substitutes for
other, existing modes of information distribution such as traditional broadcast entertainment and distribution of software, audio and video content using physical media delivered over motor
transportation systems. We believe that as communications services improve more rapidly than these alternative content distribution systems, significant demand will be generated from these sources. We
also believe that high elasticity of demand from both these new applications and the substitution for existing distribution systems will continue for the foreseeable future. We believe that while high
demand elasticity will be manifested over time, government regulation and communications supply chain inefficiencies may cause realization of demand to be delayed. 




In
connection with our belief that communications services are direct substitutes for existing modes of information distribution, and for other strategic and tactical reasons, during 2002, we entered
the businesses of direct marketing of computer software and computer software license management. Today, this business is conducted by our subsidiary Software Spectrum. 

We
believe that companies will, over time, seek information technology operating efficiency by purchasing software functionality and data storage as commercial services procured over broadband
networks such as our network or as outsourced services that also use a broadband network for delivery to the customer. We believe that the combination of our Level 3 network infrastructure and service
development capabilities, and Software Spectrum's expertise in software lifecycle management and marketing, as well as strong customer relationships, may position us to benefit as companies change the
manner in which they buy and use software capability. 




        We
also believe that there are several significant implications that result from this market dynamic: 



•Incorporating Technology Changes. Given the rapid rate of improvement in optical and Internet Protocol technologies, those
communications service providers that are most effective at rapidly deploying new services that take advantage of these technologies will have an inherent cost and service advantage over companies
that are less effective at deploying new services that use these technologies.
•Capital Intensity. The rapid improvements in these technologies and the need to move to new technologies more quickly results
in shortened economic lives of underlying assets. To achieve improvements in service capabilities and unit cost reductions, service providers must deploy new generations of technology sooner,
resulting in a more capital-intensive business model. Those providers with the technical, operational and financial ability to take advantage of the rapid advancements in these technologies are
expected to have higher absolute capital requirements, shortened asset lives, rapidly decreasing unit costs and prices, rapidly increasing unit demand and higher cash flows and profits. 

3




 




•Industry Structure. As a result of the rapid innovation in underlying technologies, the communications industry has been
visibly shifting from a utility model to a technology model. Just as in the computing industry, where market based standards and rapid price performance improvements have existed for over
20 years, it is extremely difficult for a single communications company to be best-of-class across a wide variety of disciplines in a rapidly changing environment.
Rather, an opportunity exists for companies to focus on areas in which they have significant competitive advantages and develop significant market share in its area of market focus. 


        Our Communications Business Strategy.    We are seeking to capitalize on the opportunities presented by significant and rapid
advancements in optical and Internet Protocol technologies. Key elements of our strategy include: 



•Offer a Comprehensive Range of Communications Services to Bandwidth Intensive Users. We provide a comprehensive range of
communications services designed to meet the needs of the top global bandwidth customers, that is, customers that are of higher credit quality and have existing demand for the services that we sell.
These service offerings include: Softswitch and voice services including managed modem for the dial-up access business, wholesale VoIP component services and consumer oriented VoIP
services, wholesale voice termination services, Internet Protocol and data services including IP VPNs and broadband transport services such as wavelengths, dark fiber and private line services
including transoceanic, backhaul, intercity, metro and unprotected private line services, field technical services and colocation services. The
availability of these services varies by location. 


Beginning
in 2003, we embarked on a program to develop new services that take advantage of the investment that we have made in our network and that generally target large, existing markets for
communications services. Through this effort we have increased significantly our addressable market by adding new voice and data services that take advantage of the geographic coverage and cost
advantages
of our network. Today, we are continuing these efforts. These services include: wholesale VoIP component services; consumer oriented VoIP services that are sold to service providers such as incumbent
local exchange carriers, ISPs and broadband cable companies; and transport and data services. 

We
provide customers with several options for accessing our intercity network—including our metropolitan networks and colocation facilities. Our metropolitan networks enable us to connect
directly to points of high traffic aggregation. These traffic aggregation facilities are typically locations where our customers wish to interconnect with our intercity network. Our metropolitan
networks allow us to extend our network services to these aggregation points at low costs. As of December 31, 2005, we had metropolitan networks totaling approximately 14,860 conduit miles and
approximately 792,000 fiber miles in the United States, and approximately 3,580 conduit miles and approximately 155,000 fiber miles in Europe. 


We
believe that providing colocation services in facilities directly connected to our network attracts communications intensive customers by allowing us to offer those customers reduced bandwidth
costs, rapid provisioning of additional bandwidth, interconnection with other third party networks and improved network performance. Therefore, we believe that having colocation facilities in our
larger network access locations that we refer to as Gateways provides us with a competitive advantage. Additionally, our metropolitan networks allow us to compete for certain local communications
traffic, which constitutes a significant percentage of the communications market. As of December 31, 2005, we had secured approximately 6.7 million square feet of space for our Gateway
and colocation facilities and other technical space and had completed the build-out of approximately 4.8 million square feet of this space. 



4




 




For
those locations that are not on our network, we work with other network providers to access these customer locations. 



•Target Top Global Bandwidth Customers. Our primary communications services distribution strategy is to utilize a direct sales
force focused on high bandwidth usage businesses. These businesses include incumbent local exchange carriers, established next generation carriers, international carriers also known as PTTs, major
ISPs, broadband cable television operators, wireless providers, major interexchange carriers, governments, enhanced service providers, system integrators, satellite companies, academic consortia and
media and entertainment content providers. Providing communications services to these businesses is at the core of our market enabling strategy since bandwidth generally represents a substantial
portion of these businesses' costs. We include as wholesale customers those customers that purchase significant amounts of capacity to serve the needs of their customers.
•Provide Low Cost Backbone Services Through An Upgradeable Backbone Network. Our intercity and metropolitan networks have been
designed to provide high quality communications services at a lower cost. Our network and business processes are designed to enable us to cost effectively deploy future generations of optical and IP
networking components (both fiber and transmission electronics and optronics) and thereby expand capacity and reduce unit costs. In addition, our strategy is to maximize the use of open,
non-proprietary interfaces in the design of our network software and hardware. This approach is intended to provide the company with the ability to purchase the most cost effective network
equipment from multiple vendors and allow us to deploy new technology more rapidly and effectively.
•Pursue Acquisition Opportunities. We from time to time evaluate possible acquisition opportunities, primarily opportunities
in the communications industry. In evaluating potential acquisition opportunities, among other criteria, we evaluate the potential acquisition according to the transaction's ability to generate
positive cash flow from high credit quality customers. For these opportunities, we generally look for companies with recurring revenue that come predominantly from services we already provide, in
geographic areas that are already served, with customers that are consistent with our existing customer base. As we seek to expand the addressable market for our services, we also evaluate
opportunities that would expand our service capabilities. Transactions that would be included in this category would expand the geographic scope of our network or would provide capabilities for
additional products or distribution channels. For these opportunities, we generally consider whether the targeted company's distribution strategy is consistent with our strategy and whether management
believes that the target's current and/or future revenues can be significantly increased and/or expenses can be significantly reduced as a result of a combination with our operations.
•Develop Advanced Operational Processes and Business Support Systems. We have developed and continue to develop substantial
and scalable operational processes and business support systems specifically designed to enable us to offer services efficiently to our targeted customers. We believe that these systems offer our
customers industry leading performance standards, reduce our operating costs, give our customers direct control over some of the services they buy from us and allow us to grow rapidly while minimizing
redesign of our business support systems.
•Attract and Motivate High Quality Employees. We have developed programs designed to attract and retain employees with the
technical and business skills necessary for our business. The programs include our Outperform Stock Option program. 


        Our Strengths.    We believe that the following strengths will assist us in implementing our strategy: 



•Experienced Management Team. We have assembled a management team that we believe is well suited for our business objectives
and strategy. Our senior management has substantial 

5




 



experience
in leading the development, marketing and sales of communications and information technology products and services and in managing, designing and constructing metropolitan, intercity and
international networks. 



•Softswitch based Co-Carrier Network. Our experience in operating our Softswitch based co-carrier
network is combined with a set of infrastructure and other management experiences, which include extensive local interconnection with local exchange carriers, experience in scaling a Softswitch based
platform, and an ability to provide seamless interconnection to the traditional telephone network or PSTN. We believe that our extensive co-carrier network and Softswitch infrastructure
provides us with a competitive advantage in the emerging Voice-over-IP marketplace.
•Market Neutrality. Although we are seeking to expand the size of our addressable market by developing services that are sold
to consumers, we generally do not focus on selling directly to these customers. Rather, we target these customers in an indirect manner. As a result, we are not in a position where we typically
compete with our targeted customer base for these end user customers. We believe this positions us to become the vendor of choice for consumer oriented service providers looking to fill gaps in their
communications service offerings.
•Advanced IP Backbone. We operate one of the largest international IP networks or backbones. By building and operating our own
intercity and metropolitan networks in North America and Europe, we are able to provide customers with uniformity in performance across our entire network. Our IP services deliver a broad range of IP
transit and network interconnection solutions tailored to meet the varied needs of high bandwidth companies.
•A More Readily Upgradeable Network Infrastructure. With respect to a substantial portion of our network, the network was
designed to take advantage of recent technological innovations, incorporating many of the features that are not present in older communication networks, and provides us flexibility to take advantage
of future developments and innovations. We designed the transmission network to optimize all aspects of fiber and optronics simultaneously as a system to deliver the lowest unit cost to our customers.
As fiber and optical transmission technology changes, we expect to realize new unit cost improvements by deploying the most cost efficient technologies in the Level 3 network. We believe that our
network design will enable us to continually lower costs and prices while enjoying higher margins than our competitors.
•Integrated End-to-End Network Platform. Our strategy has been and continues to be to deploy network
infrastructure in major metropolitan areas and to link these networks with significant intercity and trans-oceanic networks in North America and Europe. We believe that the integration of our
metropolitan and intercity networks with our colocation facilities will expand the scope and reach of our on-net customer coverage, facilitate the uniform deployment of technological
innovations as we manage our future upgrade paths and allow us to grow or scale our service offerings rapidly. We believe that we are the only global communications service provider with the unique
combination of large fiber count, multi-conduit metropolitan networks, generally uniformly deployed multi-conduit intercity networks and substantial colocation facilities. 


Our network.  

        Our network is an advanced, international, facilities based communications network. Today, we primarily provide services over our own facilities. At
December 31, 2005, our network encompasses: 



•an
intercity network covering approximately 48,000 miles in North America;
•leased
or owned local networks in approximately 110 North American markets; 

6




 




•an
intercity network covering approximately 3,600 miles across Europe;
•leased
or owned local networks in approximately 20 European markets;
•approximately
6.7 million square feet of Gateway and transmission facilities in North America and Europe; and
•a
1.28 Tbps transatlantic cable system. 


        Intercity Networks.    Our 48,000 mile fiber optic intercity network in North America consists of the following: 



•Multiple
conduits. In approximately 19,400 miles of our network, we have installed groups of 10 to 12 conduits in our intercity network. We believe that the availability of
spare conduit will allow us to deploy future technological innovations in optical networking components as well as providing us with the flexibility to offer conduit to other entities.
•Initial
installation of optical fiber strands designed to accommodate dense wave division multiplexing transmission technology. In addition, we believe that the installation
of newer optical fibers will allow a combination of greater wavelengths of light per strand, higher transmission speeds and longer physical spacing between network electronics. We also believe that
each new generation of optical fiber will allow increases in the performance of these network design aspects and will therefore enable lower unit costs.
•High
speed SONET transmission equipment employing self-healing protection switching and designed for high quality and reliable transmission. We expect that over
time, SONET equipped networks will be replaced with network designs that employ a "mesh" architecture made possible by advances in optical technologies. A mesh architecture allows carriers to
establish alternative protection schemes that reduce the amount of capacity required to be reserved for protection purposes.
•A
design that maximizes the use of open, non-proprietary hardware and software interfaces to allow less costly upgrades as hardware and software technology
improves. 


        During
the first quarter of 2001, we completed our construction activities relating to our North American intercity network. Also during 2001, we completed the migration of customer
traffic from our original leased capacity network to our completed North America intercity network. During 2000, we had substantially completed the construction of this intercity network. Deployment
of the North American intercity network was accomplished through simultaneous construction efforts in multiple locations, with different portions being completed at different times. In 2003, we added
approximately 2,985 miles to our North America intercity network as part of the Genuity transaction, and in 2005, we
added approximately 30,000 miles to our intercity network as part of the WilTel Communications transaction. 

        In
Europe, we have completed construction of our approximately 3,600 route mile fiber optic intercity network with characteristics similar to those of the North American intercity
network in a two ring architecture. During 2000, we completed the construction of both Ring 1 and Ring 2 of our European network. Ring 1, which is approximately 1,950 miles, connects the major
European cities of Paris, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Brussels and London and was operational at December 31, 2000. Ring 2, which is approximately 1,650 miles, connects the major German cities of
Berlin, Cologne, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg, and Munich. Ring 2 became operational during the first quarter of 2001. 

        During
2002, we completed an expansion of our European operations to seven additional cities. The additional European cities include: Karlsruhe and Cologne, Germany; Milan, Italy; Zurich
and Geneva, Switzerland; Madrid, Spain; and Stockholm, Sweden. Our expansion to these additional locations was facilitated through the acquisition of available capacity from other carriers in the
region. 

7




 


During
2003, we completed an expansion of our European operations to four additional cities. The additional European cities include: Copenhagen, Denmark; Leipzig, Germany; Manchester, England and
Vienna, Austria. In addition, during 2004, we completed an expansion of our European operations to Dublin, Ireland and Prague, Czech Republic. During 2005, we completed an expansion of our European
operations to Warsaw, Poland. In 2006, we expect to obtain dark fiber primarily in those cities currently served by leased wavelength capacity. We expect to use the dark fiber with appropriate
transmission equipment to sell a full suite of transport and IP products. 


        Our
European network is linked to the Level 3 North American intercity network by the Level 3 transatlantic 1.28 Tbps cable system, which was also completed and placed into service
during 2000. The transatlantic cable system—which we refer to as the Yellow system—has an initial capacity of 320 Gbps and is upgradeable to 1.28 Tbps. The deployment of
the Yellow system was completed pursuant to a co-build agreement announced in February 2000, whereby Global Crossing Ltd. participated in the construction of, and obtained a
50% ownership interest in, the Yellow system. Under the co-build agreement, Level 3 and Global Crossing Ltd. each now separately own and operate two of the four fiber pairs on the
Yellow system. We also acquired additional capacity on Global Crossing Ltd.'s transatlantic cable, Atlantic Crossing 1, during 2000 to serve as redundant capacity for our fiber pairs on the
Yellow system. In connection with the WilTel acquisition, we have secured additional capacity on Global Crossing's transatlantic cable, Atlantic Crossing 1, and TAT-14. In 2006, we
purchased 300 Gigabits of transatlantic capacity with the right to purchase 300 Gigabits of additional capacity from Apollo Submarine Cable System Ltd. We are also now a consortium partner on
the Japan-US, China-US and Southern Cross cable systems. 

        We
established an Asia Pacific headquarters in Hong Kong in 1999, and during 2000 we completed and opened Gateway facilities in Tokyo and Hong Kong. In January 2000, we announced
our intention to
develop and construct a Northern Asia undersea cable system initially connecting Hong Kong and Japan. The Hong Kong-Japan cable was intended to be the first stage of our construction of an
undersea network in the region. At that time, we indicated our intention to share construction and operating expenses of the system with one or more industry partners. In December 2000, we
signed an agreement to collaborate with FLAG Telecom on the development of the Northern Asia undersea cable system connecting Hong Kong, Japan, Korea and Taiwan. 

        During
the fourth quarter of 2001 we announced the disposition of our Asian operations in a sale transaction with Reach, Ltd. Although we believed that Asia represented an
attractive longer-term investment opportunity, given current volatile market and economic conditions we determined that it was necessary to focus our resources, both capital and
managerial, on the immediate opportunities provided by our operational assets in North America and Europe. This transaction closed on January 18, 2002. 


        We
have built one of the largest IP networks in the world, which as of December 31, 2005, carries approximately 3.7 petabytes of traffic per day. 

        Local Market Infrastructure.    Our local facilities include fiber optic metropolitan networks connecting Level 3's intercity
network and Gateway's to ILEC and CLEC central offices, long distance carrier points-of-presence or POPs, buildings housing communication-intensive end users and Internet
peering and transit facilities. Our high fiber count metropolitan networks allow us to extend our services directly to our customers' locations at low costs, because the availability of this network
infrastructure does not require extensive multiplexing equipment to reach a customer location, which is required in ordinary fiber constrained metropolitan networks. 

        We
had secured approximately 6.7 million square feet of space for our Gateway and transmission facilities as of December 31, 2005, and had completed the buildout of
approximately 4.8 million square feet of this space. Our initial Gateway facilities were designed to house local sales staff, operational staff, our transmission and Internet Protocol routing
and Softswitch facilities and technical space to 

8




 


accommodate
colocation services—that is, the colocation of equipment by high-volume Level 3 customers, in an environmentally controlled, secure site with direct access to Level
3's network generally through dual, fault tolerant connections. Our newer facilities are typically larger than our initial facilities and were designed to include a smaller percentage of total square
feet for our transmission and Internet Protocol routing/Softswitch facilities and a larger percentage of total square feet to support colocation services. Availability of these services varies by
location. 

        As
of December 31, 2005, we had operational, facilities based local metropolitan networks in 27 U.S. markets and nine European markets. 


        As
of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 110 markets in service in North America and approximately 20 markets in service in Europe. 

        Vyvx.    Our Vyvx subsidiary transmits audio and video programming for its customers over our fiber-optic network and via
satellite. It uses our network to carry many live traditional broadcast and cable television events from the site of the event to the network control centers of the broadcasters of the event. These
events include live sporting events of the major professional sports leagues, including the last seventeen Super Bowls®. For live events where the location is not known in advance, such as
breaking news stories in remote locations, Vyvx provides an integrated satellite and fiber-optic network based service to transmit the content to its customers. Most of Vyvx's customers for these
services contract for the service on an event-by-event basis; however, Vyvx has some customers who have purchased a dedicated point-to-point
service,which enables these customers to transmit programming at any time. 

        Vyvx
also distributes advertising spots to radio and television stations throughout the United States, both electronically and in physical form. Customers for these services can utilize
a network-based method for aggregating, managing, storing and distributing content for content owners and rights holders. 


Our Communications Services  

        We offer a comprehensive range of communications services, which currently include the following: 



•Switched Services. We pioneered and developed the Softswitch—a distributed computer system that emulates the
functions performed by traditional circuit switches—which enables us to control and process voice and data calls over an Internet Protocol network. Through our acquisition of WilTel
Communications, we also offer several traditional circuit switch-based voice services. Our Switched Services include the following.


•Level 3 Voice Termination. Level 3 Voice Termination consists of long distance origination, transport and termination
services, offered over a combination of a circuit switch and Softswitch technologies. These services are offered primarily to inter-exchange carriers (IXCs), local phone companies and voice over IP
providers.
•Level 3 Toll Free. Level 3 Toll Free consists of services that terminate toll free calls that are originated or placed on the
traditional telephone network. These toll free calls are carried over either a circuit switch or Softswitch network and delivered to customers in Internet Protocol or traditional TDM format. Customers
for these services include call centers, conferencing providers, and voice over IP providers.
•Level 3 International Voice Termination. Level 3 International Voice Termination service offers the termination of
international voice traffic. Customers for these services include local phone companies, IXCs, international carriers and voice over IP providers. 


9










<A
NAME="page_cc1142_1_10">  




•Level 3VoIP Enhanced Local. Level 3 VoIP Enhanced Local is a VoIP solution that enables broadband cable operators, IXCs,
voice over IP providers, and other companies operating their own switching infrastructure to launch IP-based local and long-distance voice to residential and business customers
via any broadband connection. With the purchase of Level 3 VoIP Enhanced Local service, a customer obtains the essential building blocks required to offer residential or business voice over IP phone
service such as local phone numbers, local number portability, local and long distance calling, E-911, operator assistance, directory listings, and directory assistance.
•Level 3 Local Inbound. Level 3 Local Inbound service terminates traditional telephone network originated calls to Internet
Protocol termination points. Customers, such as call centers, conferencing providers, and voice over IP service providers, can obtain telephone numbers from us or port-in local telephone
numbers that the customer already controls. These local calls are then converted to IP and transported over our MPLS enabled backbone to a customer's IP voice application at a customer-selected IP
voice end point.
•Level 3 E-911 Direct. Level 3 E-911 Direct is a portfolio of E-911, or Enhanced 911,
solutions, including a fixed-location solution with network connections to public safety answering points or PSAPs that serve approximately 69 percent of all U.S. households, and a solution for
nomadic voice over IP providers that takes advantage of the same network connections as the fixed-location solution. Enhanced 911 service allows an emergency services operator to automatically receive
information related to a 911 caller's registered address and callback phone number. A nomadic voice over IP provider is a company that permits its end user customer to use VoIP services from more than
one location. Level 3 E-911 Direct provides the network capabilities that route and complete 911 calls to appropriate selective routers and PSAPs on the traditional telephone 911 network.
PSAPs are provided with calling information that allows them to query appropriate databases to determine the subscriber's registered address and call-back number. When used with the
services provided by a third party VoIP Positioning Center, or VPC, to collect, update and report subscriber location information, our Level 3 E-911 Direct service enables VoIP service
providers to supply 911 services to their subscribers. Level 3 E-911 Direct works in conjunction with Level 3 VoIP Enhanced Local and Level 3 Local Inbound services as well as on a stand
alone basis.
•Level 3 Managed Modem. Level 3 Managed Modem is an outsourced, turn-key infrastructure solution for the
management of dial up access to the public Internet. ISPs comprise a majority of the customer base for Level 3 Managed Modem and are provided
a fully managed dial up network infrastructure. As part of this service, Level 3 arranges for the provision of local network coverage, dedicated local telephone numbers, racks and modems as well as
dedicated connectivity from the customer's location to the Level 3 Gateway facility.



•Network and Internet Services. We offer wholesale-oriented communications services to enable large scale networks and high
speed access to the Internet. We offer a portfolio of data communications services ranging from basic network infrastructure components such as dark fiber, wavelength, and private line services to
higher level routed data services such as Ethernet, Internet Transit and IP VPN. Our Network and Internet Services include the following.


•Transport Services. Transport services include wavelengths (Level 3 Intercity Wavelength Services and Level 3 Metro
Wavelength Services) and private lines (Level 3 Intercity Private Line Services and Level 3 Metro Services). These services are available across our metropolitan and intercity fiber network.
Wavelength services provide unprotected point-to-point connections of a fixed amount of bandwidth using a particular color of light 


10




 




on
the fiber network. Wavelength services are available at 2.5 Gbps and 10 Gbps speeds, which represent the largest capacity of dedicated transport services. This service offering targets customers
that require significant amounts of bandwidth, desire more direct control and provide their own network management. Private line services are also point to point connections of dedicated bandwidth but
usually include SONET or SDH protection to provide resiliency to fiber or equipment outages. We also offer private line services on an "unprotected" basis, meaning the customer is responsible for
providing additional resiliency, if needed. Private line services are available in a range of speeds: DS-1 (1.5 Mbps), DS-3, OC-3, OC-12 and
OC-48, as well as SDH equivalents. Customers generally use our transport services to create their own SONET/SDH, ATM and IP networks. We typically offer transport services in annual
contracts with monthly payments or long-term pre-paid agreements. 








Level
3 also provides transport services within our transatlantic cable system connecting North America and Europe as well as via leased bulk capacity on other transoceanic systems. "International
Backhaul" transport services, interconnecting cable landing stations and the terrestrial North American and European networks, are also available. 



•High Speed Internet Protocol (IP) Service. Level 3 operates one of the largest international Internet backbones providing
connectivity among customer IP, content and application networks. Built on our own intercity and metropolitan networks in North America and Europe, we provide customers with high performance,
reliability and scalability. Access to the Internet is enabled through interconnection among our customers across our network as well as interconnections with
other Internet Service provider "peers." Level 3 High Speed IP offers a wide range of Ethernet and SONET access port speeds such as 100BaseT, GigE, DS-1, DS-3, OC-3
and OC-12, OC-48 and 10 GigE.
•Ethernet and VPN Services. Built on our optical transport and MPLS networks, we offer customers the ability to create private
point-to-point, point-to-multipoint, and full-mesh networks based on Ethernet and IP VPN, ATM and Frame Relay technologies. These services
allow service providers, corporations, government entities, and distribution businesses to replace multiple networks with a single, cost-effective solution that simplifies the transmission
of voice, video, and data over a single or converged network. The service allows the customer to achieve this convergence without sacrificing the quality of service or security levels of traditional
dedicated transport offerings. These solutions are used for service provider and corporate data and voice networks, data center networking, disaster recovery and out-of-region
or redundant customer connectivity for other service providers. These services include Level 3 Ethernet VPN, Level 3 IP VPN, Level 3 Metro Ethernet Private Line, Level 3 ATM, and Level 3 Frame Relay.
•Colocation Service. We offer high quality, data center space where customers can locate servers, content storage devices and
communications network equipment in a safe and secure technical operating environment. At our colocation sites, we offer high-speed, reliable connectivity to our network and to other
networks, including metro and intercity networks, the traditional telephone network and the Internet. Critical components of this service offering are reliable AC/DC power, emergency
back-up generator power, equipment cooling and fire protection. These sites are monitored and maintained 24 hours a day and incorporate advanced badge and biometric security access.
We believe that our ability to complement a full range of communications services and a broad number of quality data center space enables customers to build complete telecommunication and application
solutions with us. 


11




 



•Dark Fiber Service. Level 3 Intercity Dark Fiber and Level 3 Metro Dark Fiber provide carriers, service providers, government
entities and large enterprises a complete infrastructure when a fiber solution is required based on unique applications, control or scale requirements. The services include fiber, colocation space in
our Gateway and in our network facilities, power and physical operations and maintenance of the fiber and associated infrastructure.
•Professional Services. With Level 3 Professional Services, we offer field technical support services 24 hours a day to
companies wishing to outsource their telecommunications equipment support at locations across North America and Europe. Customers can realize improved response time and cost
savings using Level 3's personnel instead of hiring their own dedicated technicians. We also provide design, implementation and ongoing network management services for complex network projects.



•Vyvx's primary products and services include the following.


•Fiber Optic and Satellite Video Transport Services. Vyvx offers various products to provide audio and video feeds over fiber
or satellite for broadcast and production customers. These products vary in capacity provided, frequency of use (i.e., may be provided on an occasional or dedicated basis) and price. In 2004, Super
Bowl® XXXVIII was the first live broadcast event ever carried using Vyvx's new high definition (HD) transport product.
•Advertising Distribution Services. These services include the following. Audio Distribution, where Vyvx sends radio spots to
stations via electronic and physical distribution. Spots are distributed to over 10,500 stations in North America via the Internet using no proprietary hardware. Video Distribution, where Vyvx has the
capability to deliver video content electronically and physically to television stations, broadcast networks and cable networks across the United States. Its electronic reach covers more than 1,800
destinations.
•Storage. Vyvx offers secure storage of media components in Vyvx's climate-controlled storage facilities located in Burbank,
California, Chicago, Illinois and Newark, Delaware. 



        For
a discussion of our communications revenue, please see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing later in this
Form 10-K. Our management continues to review our existing lines of business and service offerings to determine how those lines of business and service offerings assist with our
focus on the delivery of communications and information services and meeting our financial objectives. To the extent that certain lines of business or service offerings are not considered to be
compatible with the delivery of communications and information services or with obtaining financial objectives, we may exit those lines of business or stop offering those services. 


Distribution Strategy  

        Our communications services sales strategy is to utilize a direct sales force focused on companies with high bandwidth and/or voice requirements. These businesses
include incumbent local exchange carriers,
established next generation carriers, international carriers also known as PTTs, major ISPs, broadband cable television operators, major interexchange carriers, wireless carriers, systems integrators,
governments, emerging VoIP service providers, calling card providers, conferencing providers, call centers and media and entertainment content providers. Providing continually declining bandwidth
costs to these companies is at the core of our market enabling strategy. 

        Beginning
in 2001, we changed our communications services customer focus to the top global users of bandwidth capacity. These top customers tend to be financially more viable than
certain Internet early stage companies. We have in place policies and procedures to review the financial condition of potential and existing customers. We apply these procedures to determine whether
collectibility is 

12




 


probable
prior to the time that we begin delivering services to a customer. If the financial condition of an existing customer deteriorates to a point where payment for services is in doubt, we will
not recognize revenue attributable to that customer until we receive cash. Based on these policies and procedures, we believe our exposure to collection risk within the communications business and the
possible effect on our financial statements is limited. We are not immune from the effects of possible downturns in the economy and specifically the telecommunications industry; however, we believe
the concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is mitigated due to the dispersion of our customer base among geographic areas and remedies provided by terms of contracts and statutes. 

        We
also offer communications services to enterprises and consumers through third party distributor relationships. We are focusing these relationship development efforts on those systems
integrators, PTTs, broadband cable television operators, ISPs and enhanced service providers that are used by our targeted customers, as many of these companies have significant direct relationships
with end users. We believe that our ability to fill the gaps in geographic coverage and service offerings that many of these distributors have presents us with an attractive means of increasing the
addressable market for our communications services. 

        For
the year ended December 31, 2005, two customers (determined as a combination of affiliated customers) accounted for more than 10% of our communications revenue. Revenue
attributable to Time Warner Inc. and subsidiaries, including America Online, on an aggregate basis, represented approximately 18% of communications revenue and Verizon
Communications, Inc. and its affiliates represented approximately 14% of communications revenue. If we would lose one or more major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly
decreased its orders for our services, our communications business would be materially and adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our top ten communications services
customers accounted for approximately 54% of our total communications revenue. 

        Vyvx
sells to media content service providers and businesses that use media content as a component of their business. It does not compete with its media customers for retail
end-users. It has approximately 2,000 customers, including major broadcast and cable television networks, news services, professional and collegiate sports organizations, advertising
agencies and their advertisers, television
companies and movie production companies. Approximately 61% of Vyvx's 2005 revenue was derived from its top 10 customers. Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. and its parent company The News
Corporation Limited, through their various news, sports and entertainment businesses, accounted for approximately 22% of Vyvx's revenues and Time Warner, Inc. accounted for 12% of Vyvx's
revenues. 

        Vyvx
has sales personnel located in eight states and the District of Columbia to provide service to its domestic and international customers. The largest sales offices are in New York,
New York and Burbank, California, where many of Vyvx's largest customers are based. 


Business Support Systems  

        In order to pursue our sales and distribution strategies, we have developed and are continuing to develop and implement a set of integrated software applications
designed to automate our operational processes. Through the development of a robust, scalable business support system, we believe that we have the opportunity to develop a competitive advantage
relative to traditional telecommunications companies. In addition, we recognize that for the success of certain of our services that some of our business support systems will need to be easily
accessible and usable directly by our customers. 


        Key
design aspects of the business support system development program are: 



•integrated
modular applications to allow us to upgrade specific applications as new services are available; 

13




 




•a
scalable architecture that allows our customers and distributors direct access to certain functions that would otherwise have to be performed by our employees;
•phased
completion of software releases designed to allow us to test functionality on an incremental basis;
•"web-enabled"
applications so that on-line access to order entry, network operations, billing, and customer care functions is available to all
authorized users, including our customers;
•use
of a tiered, client/server architecture that is designed to separate data and applications, and is expected to enable continued improvement of software functionality at
minimum cost; and
•use
of pre-developed or "shrink wrapped" applications, where applicable, which will interface to our internally developed applications. 


Interconnection and Peering  

        As a result of the 1996 Act, properly certificated companies may, as a matter of law, interconnect with ILECs on terms designed to help ensure economic, technical
and administrative equality between the interconnected parties. The 1996 Act provides, among other things, that ILECs must offer competitors the services and facilities necessary to offer local
switched services. See "—Regulation." 

        As
of December 31, 2005, we had entered into approximately 170 interconnection agreements. We may be required to negotiate new or renegotiate existing interconnection agreements
as we expand our operations in current and additional markets in the future and as existing agreements expire or are terminated. 

        Our
peering agreements with ISPs are necessary in order for us to exchange traffic with those ISPs without having to pay transit costs. We are considered a Tier 1 Internet Service
Provider and have settlement free peering arrangements with all Tier 1 ISPs in North America and Europe. The basis on which the large national ISPs make peering available or impose settlement charges
is evolving as the provision of Internet access and related services has expanded. 

Employee Recruiting and Retention  

        As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 4,800 employees in the communications portion of our business and information services had approximately
1,200 employees, for a total of approximately 6,000 employees. We believe that our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain substantial numbers of qualified employees. 


        As
part of our efforts to satisfy the need to attract, retain and motivate the individuals who possess the skills necessary to grow our business, management and our Compensation
Committee of the Board believe that our compensation programs should reflect our compensation philosophy. This philosophy includes the following core beliefs: 



•employee
ownership demonstrates an economic stake in our business that aligns employees' interests with those of our stockholders;
•employees
should share appropriately with investors in the value that their results help to create;
•compensation
principles are broad based and intended to be appropriate across business groups—communications and information services—and within each
business group, provide all employees with the opportunity to participate in compensation programs based on the value that they help to create; and
•compensation
programs should be based on creating long-term value which is best measured by stock price performance. 

14




 





        We
believe that short-term financial rewards alone are not sufficient to attract and retain qualified employees and that a properly designed long-term
compensation program is a necessary component of employee recruitment and retention. Additionally, our philosophy
is to pay annual cash salary compensation that is competitive and a performance based cash bonus that is above market for performance that is above market. In addition, employees may, from time to
time, receive additional cash bonus compensation related to that individual's contribution to results achieved under special initiatives or programs. 


        Our
Compensation Committee also believes that a critical component of our compensation philosophy is having the ability to provide appropriate incentives to employees through a long term
incentive program that is tied to stock price performance. We currently have a long-term incentive (LTI) program that provides for two types of equity awards that are granted in equal
amounts. The first type of equity vehicle is an innovative stock-indexed option referred to as an Outperform Stock Option or OSO, which is administered under our 1995 Stock Plan, as amended. The
second type of equity award is restricted stock units, that vest over a period of years, depending on the participant's continued employment and the terms of the specific grant. The restricted
stock units are currently granted on an annual basis. We believe that a blended equity vehicle of OSOs and RSUs allows us to accomplish several objectives including providing an "outperformance"
element through the OSO grants that is balanced by the retention element provided by RSUs. 

        OSOs
are currently designed to provide our employees with the incentive to maximize stockholder value and to reward employees only when the price of our common stock outperforms the S&P
500® Index between the date of grant and the date that the OSO is exercised. OSOs generally have a four year life and vest 50% at the end of the first year after grant, with the remaining
50% vesting in four equal quarterly installments so that the OSOs are fully vested by the end of the second year after grant. 


        OSOs
have an initial exercise price that is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the trading day immediately prior to the date of grant. This exercise price is
referred to as the Initial Price. When an employee elects to exercise an OSO, the Initial Price is adjusted upward or downward—as of the date of that exercise—by a percentage
that is equal to the aggregate percentage increase or decrease in the S&P 500® Index over the period beginning on the date of grant and ending on the trading day immediately preceding the
date of exercise of the OSOs. The Initial Price, however, can not be adjusted below the closing price of our common stock on the day that the OSO was granted. 


        Since
a core belief of our compensation philosophy is to have employees share appropriately with our stockholders in the value that the employees' efforts create, the value of the OSO
will increase as the price of our common stock increases relative to the performance of the S&P® 500 Index over time. This increase in value is attributable in part to the use of a
"success multiplier." 

        The
following modifications, affecting August 19, 2002, and later grants, were made to the OSO program: 



•OSO
targets are communicated in terms of number of OSOs rather than a theoretical dollar value.
•The
success multiplier is up to four times the adjusted value of the OSO.
•Awards
vest over 2 years and have a 4-year life. Fifty percent of an award vests at the end of the first year after grant, with the remaining 50% vesting
over the second year (12.5% per quarter). 


        The
mechanics for determining the value of an individual OSO award are described below: 


        The
initial strike price, as determined on the day prior to the OSO grant date, is adjusted over time (the "Adjusted Strike Price"), until the exercise date. The adjustment is an amount
equal to the 

15




 


percentage
appreciation or depreciation in the value of the S&P 500® Index from the date of grant to the date of exercise. The value of the OSO increases for increasing levels of
outperformance. OSOs granted prior to August 19, 2002, have a multiplier range from zero to eight depending upon the performance of our common stock relative to the S&P 500® Index
as shown in the following table. OSOs granted August 19, 2002, and later have a multiplier range from zero to four depending upon the performance of our common stock relative to the S&P
500® Index as shown in the following table. 




 
 
Then the Pre-multiplier Gain Is Multiplied by a Success Multiplier of:


If Level 3 Stock
Outperforms the S&P 500®
Index by:
 
Pre August 19, 2002 Grants
 
August 19, 2002 and
Later Grants


0% or Less
 
0.00
 
0.00



More than 0% but Less than 11%
 

Outperformance percentage multiplied by 8/11
 

Outperformance percentage multiplied by 4/11



11% or More
 

8.00
 

4.00





        The
Pre-multiplier gain is our common stock price minus the Adjusted Strike Price on the date of exercise. 

        Our
1995 Stock Plan, as amended, affords our Compensation Committee flexibility to use a variety of means to provide the appropriate incentives as part of a long term compensation
program. From time to time, our Compensation Committee evaluates the structure of our LTI program and those groups of employees that participate in the LTI program. Our Compensation Committee from
time to time may make modifications to these programs to reflect the changing needs related to attracting, retaining and motivating our employees. These changes may be based, in part, on market
conditions and the LTI program of competitors. As new LTI instruments are frequently developed and since the tax and accounting treatment of various instruments are subject to change over time,
management and the Compensation Committee regularly review our compensation programs to determine whether these programs are accomplishing our goals in the most cost effective manner. 

        In
addition to our LTI program, employees also have the opportunity to receive grants of shares of Level 3 common stock through our 401(k) Plan's employer matching contribution
which equals up to 100% of 7% of eligible earnings or regulatory limits for communications business employees' and up to 50% of 6% of eligible earnings or regulatory limits for Software Spectrum
employees. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company also approved a 3% discretionary grant to eligible employees, that will be deposited in their share accounts. Employees of WilTel
Communications that participate in the WilTel 401(k) Plan receive an employer matching cash contribution of up to 100% of 6% of eligible earnings or regulatory limits, which is invested in the
same investment funds selected by participants for employee contributions. 

        Historically,
all employees in the communications portion of our business and certain employees of Software Spectrum have participated in our LTI program. During the period of the
integration of WilTel Communications employees, these employees will not participate in our LTI Program. 


        For
a description of the accounting treatment of our OSOs, please see our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements that are included in this Form 10-K. 

Competition  

        The communications industry is highly competitive. A number of factors in recent years have increased the number of competitors in the market. First, the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 created opportunities for non-incumbent providers to enter the marketplace. Second, the capital markets responded by making funding more available to new and
existing competitors. Third, enthusiasm over 

16




 


the
opportunities created by the rapid developments of the Internet led investors and market participants in general to overestimate the rate at which demand for communications services would grow.
Finally, the emergence of new IP-based services has created prospects for new entrants with non-traditional business models to compete with legacy providers. 

        We
believe that a confluence of these factors created an unsustainable level of competition in the market. We believe that this was evidenced by both the number of competitors vying for
similar business and by the amount of inventory or capacity each brings to the market for many services. The result of these actions was an oversupply of capacity and an intensely competitive
environment. 

        We
do not believe the current industry structure can be sustained over the long-term. With the growth of communications demand, excess capacity will be absorbed over some
timeframe. Similarly, some form of industry consolidation will continue to occur based on underlying economics. Given the large ongoing fixed costs associated with operating a backbone network, we
believe that the natural industry structure will evolve to a more limited number of competitors with each having high traffic scale across their networks. 


        While
we believe that the long-run industry structure will evolve toward that described above, uncertainty surrounds how the existing competitive landscape will evolve toward
this new structure. For example, while a number of next-generation and incumbent providers have entered and emerged from bankruptcy protection, we believe these competitors are still
operating fundamentally poor business models, have severe resource constraints, and are unlikely to be long-term survivors in their current forms. In addition, the ultimate impact of the
recently completed transactions between AT&T and SBC Communications (henceforth AT&T) and MCI and Verizon (henceforth Verizon) is yet to be known. 


        We
believe that each competitor's long-run success in the market will be driven by its available resources (for example, financial, personnel, marketing, customers) and the
effectiveness of its business model (for example, service focus and mix, cost effectiveness, ability to adapt to new
technologies, channel effectiveness). We recognize that many of our existing and potential competitors in the communications industry have resources significantly greater than ours. 

        Our
primary competitors are long distance carriers, incumbent local exchange carriers, competitive local exchange carriers, PTTs and other companies that provide communications services.
The following information identifies key competitors for each of our product offerings. 


        Our
key competitors for our managed modem services are other providers of dial up Internet access including Verizon and Qwest Communications. In addition, the key competitors for our
voice service offerings are other providers of wholesale communications services including AT&T, Verizon, Sprint and certain regional Bell operating companies and competitive local exchange carriers. 

        For
our IP and Data services, we compete with companies that include Verizon, Sprint, AT&T and Qwest Communications in North America, and Sprint, Verizon, France Telecom and Deutsche
Telecom in Europe. 

        For
transport services, our key competitors in the United States are other facilities based communications companies including AT&T, Verizon, Sprint and Qwest Communications. In Europe,
our key competitors are other carriers such as PTTs, Telia International, Colt Telecom Group plc, Verizon, and Global Crossing. 

        Our
key competitors for our colocation services are other facilities based communications companies, and other colocation providers such as web hosting companies and third party
colocation companies. In the United States, these companies include AT&T, Savvis Communications, Equinix, Switch & Data and Qwest Communications. In Europe, competitors include Global Switch,
InterXion, Redbus, Telecity and Telehouse Europe. 

17




 


        The
communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. For instance, recent technological advances permit substantial increases in transmission capacity
of both new and existing fiber, and the introduction of new products or emergence of new technologies may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those which we plan on
providing. Accordingly, in the future our most significant competitors may be new entrants to the communications and information services industry, which are not burdened by an installed base of
outmoded or legacy equipment. 

        We
believe that no single competitor currently exists that offers all of the services being offered by Vyvx. The competitors that Vyvx encounters in the marketplace have historically
offered only one or two of Vyvx's products. 

Regulation  



 Federal Regulation  



        The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has jurisdiction over interstate and international communications services, among other things. The FCC imposes
extensive regulations on common carriers that have some degree of market power such as incumbent local exchange carriers (ILECs). The FCC imposes less regulation on common carriers without market
power, such as us. The FCC permits these non-dominant carriers to provide domestic interstate services (including long distance and access services) without prior authorization; but it
requires carriers to receive an authorization to construct and operate telecommunications facilities and to provide or resell telecommunications services, between the United States and international
points. We have obtained FCC approval to land our transatlantic cable in the United States. We have obtained FCC authorization to provide international services on a facilities and resale basis. Under
the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (1996 Act), any entity, including cable television companies, electric and gas utilities, may enter any telecommunications market, subject to reasonable state
regulation of safety, quality and consumer protection. Because implementation of the 1996 Act is subject to numerous federal and state policy rulemaking proceedings and judicial review, there is still
uncertainty as to what impact it will have on us. The 1996 Act is intended to increase competition. Among other things, the 1996 Act opens the local exchange services market by requiring ILECs to
permit competitive carriers to interconnect to their networks at any technically feasible point and requires them to lease certain parts of their networks at FCC-regulated (generally cost
based) rates; it also establishes requirements applicable to all local exchange carriers. Examples include: 



•Reciprocal Compensation. Requires all ILECs and CLECs to complete calls originated by competing carriers under reciprocal
arrangements at prices based on a reasonable approximation of incremental cost or through mutual exchange of traffic without explicit payment.
•Resale. Requires all ILECs and CLECs to permit resale of their telecommunications services without unreasonable or
discriminatory restrictions or conditions. In addition, ILECs are required to offer for resale wholesale versions of all telecommunications services that the ILEC
provides at retail to subscribers that are not telecommunications carriers at discounted rates, based on the costs avoided by the ILEC in the wholesale offering.
•Access to Rights-of-Way. Requires all ILECs and CLECs and any other public utility that owns or
controls poles, conduits, ducts, or rights-of-way used in whole or in part for wire communications, to permit competing carriers (and cable television systems) access to poles,
ducts, conduits and rights-of-way at regulated prices. CLEC rates for access to its poles, ducts, conduits and rights-of-way, however, are not
regulated. 


        Generally
speaking, CLEC access to ILEC networks and utility poles are implemented through individual negotiations, which are governed by the 1996 Act and applicable FCC Rules. Under the
1996 

18




 


Act,
CLEC access to ILEC networks is heavily regulated and the rules governing that access have been contentious. Over the past several years, however, the United States Supreme Court has
affirmed FCC jurisdiction over ILEC unbundling, certain specific unbundling requirements and the FCC's authority to set the mechanism which governs the rates ILECs may charge for interconnection and
unbundling. 

        On
February 4, 2005, the FCC issued its latest Triennial Review Remand Order which modified the unbundling obligations for ILECs. Under certain circumstances the FCC removed an
ILEC's unbundling obligations with regard to high capacity local loops and dedicated transport and eliminated the obligation to provide local switching. Under the FCC's new rules, the availability of
high capacity loops and transport will depend upon new tests based on the capacity of the facility, the business line density of incumbent wire centers, and the existence of collocated fiber providers
in incumbent wire centers. The FCC required that the ILECs identify the specific wire centers that will be affected. Until the accuracy of the ILEC's response is confirmed, it is not possible to
predict the degree to which the new rules regarding loops and transport will affect us. To the limited extent that we rely upon unbundled network elements, therefore, we cannot at this time assess how
the new rules will effect our business. 

        The
FCC recently released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ("NPRM") to initiate a comprehensive review of rules governing the pricing of special access service offered by ILECs subject to
price cap regulation. Special access pricing by these carriers currently is subject to price cap rules, as well as pricing flexibility rules which permit these carriers to offer volume and term
discounts and contract tariffs (Phase I pricing flexibility) and/or remove from price caps regulation special access service in a defined geographic area (Phase II pricing flexibility) based on
showings of competition. In the NPRM the FCC tentatively concludes to continue to permit pricing flexibility where competitive market forces are sufficient to constrain special access prices, but
undertakes an examination of whether the current triggers for pricing flexibility accurately assess competition and have worked as intended. The NPRM
also asks for comment on whether certain aspects of ILEC special access tariff offerings (e.g., basing discounts on previous volumes of service; tying nonrecurring charges and termination penalties to
term commitments; and imposing use restrictions in connection with discounts), are unreasonable. Given the early phase of the proceeding, we cannot predict the impact, if any, the NPRM will have on
our network cost structure. 

        The
1996 Act also codifies the ILECs' equal access and nondiscrimination obligations and preempts inconsistent state regulation. 

        As
of August 1, 2001, our tariffs for interstate end user services were eliminated and our tariffs for international interexchange services were eliminated on January 28,
2002. Our rates must still be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. Our state tariffs remain in place. We have historically relied primarily on our sales force and marketing activities to provide
information to our customers regarding these matters and expect to continue to do so. Further, in accordance with the FCC's orders we maintain a schedule of our rates, terms and conditions for our
domestic and international private line services on our web site. 

19






<A
NAME="page_ce1142_1_20">   
        Beginning in June 1997, every RBOC advised CLECs that they did not consider calls in the same local calling area from their customers to the CLEC's ISP customers to be local calls
under the interconnection agreements between the RBOCs and the CLECs. The RBOCs claimed that these calls are exchange access calls for which exchange access charges would be owed. The RBOCs claimed,
however, that the FCC exempted these calls from access charges so that no compensation is owed to the CLECs for transporting and terminating such calls. As a result, the RBOCs threatened to withhold,
and in many cases did withhold, reciprocal compensation for the transport and termination of such calls. To date, almost all state commissions that have ruled on this issue in the context of state
commission arbitration proceedings or enforcement proceedings have determined that reciprocal compensation is owed for such calls. Reviewing courts have upheld the state commissions in almost all
decisions rendered to date on appeal. On February 25, 1999, the FCC issued a Declaratory Ruling on the issue of inter-carrier compensation for calls bound to ISPs. The FCC ruled that the calls
are jurisdictionally interstate calls, not local calls. 

        The
FCC, however, determined that this issue was not dispositive of whether intercarrier compensation is owed. That decision was appealed to the D.C. Circuit which held that the FCC had
failed to adequately support its conclusions under the requirements of the 1996 Act. On April 18, 2001, the FCC adopted a new order regarding intercarrier compensation for ISP-bound
traffic. In that Order, the Commission established a new intercarrier compensation mechanism for ISP-bound traffic with declining rates over a three year period. In addition to
establishing a new rate structure, the Commission capped the amount of ISP bound traffic that would be "compensable" and prohibited payment of intercarrier compensation for ISP-bound
traffic to carriers entering new markets. The April 2001 order was appealed to the D.C. Circuit. On May 3, 2002, the D.C. Circuit found that the FCC had not provided an adequate legal
basis for its ruling, and therefore remanded the matter to the FCC. In the interim, the court let the FCC's rules stand. It is unclear when the FCC will issue revised findings in response to the
latest remand. On October 8, 2004, the FCC adopted an order in response to a July 2003 Petition for Forbearance filed by Core Communications ("Core Petition") asking the FCC to forbear
from enforcing the rate caps, growth cap, and new market and mirroring rules of the ISP Remand Order. The FCC granted the Core Petition with respect to the growth cap and the new market rules, but
denied the Petition as to the rate caps and mirroring rules ("Core Order"). That decision has been appealed to the D.C. Circuit. 

        The
FCC has an open rulemaking proceeding to address intercarrier compensation, including compensation for traffic to ISPs. In addition to the numerous proposals regarding intercarrier
compensation obligations, a number of industry groups have been trying to negotiate a plan that would bring all intercarrier compensation and access charges to a unified rate over a negotiated
transition period. It is too early to understand the impact any plan may have if it is adopted by the FCC on either our reciprocal compensation or access revenues or our interconnection obligations. 

        Prior
to 2004, we entered into agreements providing for payment of compensation for terminating ISP-bound traffic with Verizon, in its former Bell Atlantic operating
territory, with SBC Corporation for the 13-state operating territory that includes its affiliates Pacific Bell, Southwestern Bell, Ameritech and Southern New England Telephone, and with
BellSouth in its nine-state operating territory. We also entered into interconnection agreements with Qwest, Cincinnati Bell Telephone, and Sprint that reflect the intercarrier
compensation rates adopted by the FCC in its ISP Remand Order. Given the general uncertainty surrounding the effect of the FCC decisions, appeals, and the remand, we may have to change how we treat
the compensation we receive for terminating calls bound for ISP-bound traffic if the agreements under which compensation is paid provides for the incorporation of changes in FCC rules and
regulations. 

        In
May 2004, we reached a new interconnection agreement with Bell South that incorporated the terms of the ISP Remand Order. In September 2004, we and Verizon amended our
existing interconnection agreement to establish intercarrier compensation terms. In late 2003, we reached an 

20




 


agreement
with SBC continuing payment for the exchange of ISP-bound traffic that could run through the end of 2004. In February 2005, we and SBC agreed to successor interconnection
agreements which cover the payment for the exchange of ISP-bound traffic. 

        In
December 1996, the FCC initiated a Notice of Inquiry regarding whether to impose regulations or surcharges upon providers of Internet access and information services (the
Internet NOI). The Internet NOI sought public comment upon whether to impose or continue to forebear from regulation of Internet and other packet-switched network service providers. The Internet NOI
specifically identifies Internet telephony as a subject for FCC consideration. On April 10, 1998, the FCC issued a Report to Congress on its implementation of the universal service provisions
of the 1996 Act. In that Report, the FCC stated, among other things, that the provision of transmission capacity to ISPs constitutes the provision of telecommunications and is, therefore, subject to
common carrier regulations. The FCC indicated that it would reexamine its policy of not requiring an ISP to contribute to the universal service mechanisms when the ISP provides its own transmission
facilities and engages in data transport over those facilities in order to provide an information service. Any such contribution by a facilities based ISP would be related to the ISP's provision of
the underlying telecommunications services. In the Report, the FCC also indicated that it would examine the question of whether certain forms of "phone-to-phone Internet
Protocol telephony" are information services or telecommunications services. It noted that the FCC did not have an adequate record on which to make any definitive pronouncements on that issue at this
time, but that the record the FCC had reviewed suggests that certain forms of phone-to-phone Internet Protocol telephony appear to have similar functionality to
non-Internet Protocol telecommunications services and lack the characteristics that would render them information services. If the FCC were to determine that certain Internet Protocol
telephony services are subject to FCC regulations as telecommunications services, the FCC noted it may find it reasonable that the ISPs pay access charges and make universal service contributions
similar to non-Internet Protocol based telecommunications service providers. The FCC also noted that other forms of Internet Protocol telephony appear to be information services. 



 State Regulation  



        The 1996 Act is intended to increase competition in the telecommunications industry, especially in the local exchange market. With respect to local services,
ILECs are required to allow interconnection to their networks and to provide unbundled access to network facilities, as well as a number of other pro-competitive measures. Because the
implementation of the 1996 Act is subject to numerous state rulemaking proceedings on these issues, it is currently difficult to predict how quickly full competition for local services will be
realized. 

        State
regulatory agencies have jurisdiction when our facilities and services are used to provide intrastate telecommunications services. A portion of our traffic may be classified as
intrastate telecommunications and therefore subject to state regulation. We expect that we will offer more intrastate telecommunications services (including intrastate switched services) as our
business and product lines expand. To provide intrastate services, we generally must obtain a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the state regulatory agency and comply with state
requirements for telecommunications utilities, including state tariffing requirements. We currently are authorized to provide telecommunications services in all fifty states and the District of
Columbia. In addition, we will be required to obtain and maintain interconnection agreements with ILECs where we wish to provide service. We have approximately 170 interconnection agreements with
limited terms. We expect that we should be able to negotiate or otherwise obtain renewals or successor agreements through adoption of others' contracts or arbitration proceedings, although the rates,
terms, and conditions applicable to interconnection and the exchange of traffic with certain ILECs could change significantly in certain cases. The degree to which the rates, terms, and conditions may
change will depend not only upon the negotiation and arbitration process and availability of other interconnection agreements, but will also 

21




 


depend
in significant part upon state commission proceedings that either uphold or modify the current regimes governing interconnection and the exchange of certain kinds of traffic between carriers.
In May 2004, we reached agreement on new interconnection agreements with BellSouth in all 9 of the BellSouth states. In September 2004, we reached new interconnection agreements with
Verizon, and with SBC in February 2005. 

        States
also often require prior approvals or notifications for certain transfers of assets, customers or ownership of certificated carriers and for issuances by certified carriers of
equity or debt. 



 Local Regulation  



        Our networks will be subject to numerous local regulations such as building codes and licensing. Such regulations vary on a city-by-city,
county-by-county and state-by-state basis. To install our own fiber optic transmission facilities, we need to obtain
rights-of-way over privately and publicly owned land. Rights-of-way that are not already secured may not be available to us on economically reasonable
or advantageous terms. 

Regulation of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)  



 Federal and State  



        Due to the growing acceptance and deployment of VoIP services, the FCC and state public utility commissions are conducting regulatory proceedings that could
affect the regulatory duties and rights of entities such as us or our affiliates that provide IP-based voice applications. There is regulatory uncertainty as to the imposition of access
charges and other taxes, fees and surcharges on VoIP services that use the public switched telephone network. There is regulatory uncertainty as to the imposition of traditional retail, common carrier
regulation on VoIP products and services. The FCC has initiated a rulemaking proceeding to consider changes in FCC rules for IP-based voice services. While preserving its right to address
certain matters prior to conclusion of the rulemaking, the FCC has indicated that this rulemaking may address, among other things, 911 requirements, disability access requirements, access charges, and
universal service requirements. 

        The
FCC is also considering several petitions filed by individual companies concerning the regulatory rights and obligations of providers of IP-based voice services, and
networks that handle IP-based voice traffic or that exchange that traffic with operators of Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) facilities. 

        On
October 18, 2002, AT&T Corporation filed a petition with the FCC requesting a declaratory ruling that calls that originate and terminate on the PSTN, but which may be converted
into IP during some part of the transmission, are exempt from access charges under existing FCC rules. On April 21, 2004,
the FCC rejected AT&T's Petition, stating that the calls described by AT&T were telecommunications services subject to access charges under existing FCC rules. 

        On
September 22, 2003, Vonage Holdings Corporation or Vonage filed a petition with the FCC requesting a declaration that its offerings, which originate on a broadband network in
IP format and terminate on the PSTN, or vice versa, are interstate information services not subject to state regulation under the federal Communications Act and existing FCC rules. On
November 10, 2004, the FCC adopted an order ruling that Vonage's service was an interstate service not subject to state regulation. The FCC did not rule whether the service is only an
information service that is not subject to Title II under the Act. Appeals were filed in a number of circuits, which appeals were consolidated and assigned to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
8th Circuit. Oral arguments were heard on Jan. 12, 2006. A decision is pending. Until a decision is released, we cannot predict how a ruling might affect our provision of VoIP services. 

22




 


        On
June 3, 2005, the FCC issued an order requiring all interconnected VoIP providers to deliver enhanced 911 capabilities to their subscribers by no later than November 28,
2005. We have modified our service offerings to VoIP providers in order to assist those providers in complying with the FCC mandate. Many of our customers have filed for partial or complete waivers or
extensions of time with respect to the 911 order, and other companies have filed appeals challenging the timeframe within which the FCC ordered compliance. Meanwhile, we are continuing to work with
our customers and with public safety officials nationwide in an effort to meet the FCC's 911 requirements. In addition, in this appeal, filed on behalf of a number of Interconnected VoIP Providers,
the parties objected to the Commission's requirement to deploy emergency services for nomadic VoIP services. That action is proceeding. Until a final decision is issued, we cannot predict how its
outcome will affect customer demand for our 911 services. Those requests for waivers and appeals are pending. 

        The
state public utility commissions are also conducting regulatory proceedings that could impact our rights and obligations with respect to IP-based voice applications.
Previously, the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or MPUC ruled that Vonage's DigitalVoice service was a telephone service under state law, and ordered Vonage to obtain state certification, file
tariffs, and comply with 911 requirements before continuing to offer the service in the state. Vonage filed a request in the Federal District Court for the District of Minnesota to enjoin the MPUC's
decision. On October 16, 2003, a federal judge granted Vonage's request for an injunction, concluding that Vonage provides an information service immune from state regulation and thereby
barring the MPUC from enforcing its decision. On December 22, 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the District Court's judgment on the basis of the FCC's
determination that Vonage's service was interstate and noted that the MPUC would be free to challenge the injunction if it or another party prevailed on an appeal of the FCC's Vonage Order. 

        The
California Public Utilities Commission or CPUC, on February 11, 2004, initiated a rulemaking about the appropriate regulatory framework to govern VoIP. Among the issues the
CPUC may consider
is whether VoIP is subject to CPUC's regulatory authority, including whether VoIP providers should be required to contribute to state universal service programs, whether VoIP providers should be
required to pay intrastate access charges, whether VoIP should be subject to basic consumer protection rules, and whether exempting VoIP providers from requirements applicable to traditional voice
providers would create unfair competitive advantages for VoIP providers. 

        We
cannot predict the outcome of any of these petitions and regulatory proceedings or any similar petitions and regulatory proceedings pending before the FCC or state public utility
commissions. Moreover, we cannot predict how their outcomes may affect our operations or whether the FCC or state public utility commissions will impose additional requirements, regulations or charges
upon our provision of services related to IP communications. 

        The
Communications Act requires that every telecommunications carrier contribute, on an equitable and non-discriminatory basis, to federal universal service mechanisms
established by the FCC, and the FCC also requires providers of non-common carrier telecommunications to contribute to universal service, subject to some exclusions and limitations. At
present, these contributions are calculated based on contributors' interstate and international revenue derived from U.S. domestic end users for telecommunications or telecommunications services, as
those terms are defined under FCC regulations. Pursuant to federal regulations, we pay these contributions. The amount of our contributions can vary based upon the total amount of federal universal
service support being provided under the FCC's federal mechanisms and associated administrative expenses, the methodology used by the FCC to calculate each carrier's contributions, and, at present,
the proportion of our assessable interstate and international revenue derived from our domestic end users for telecommunications or telecommunications services to, for all contributors, the total
amount of assessable interstate and international revenue derived from domestic end users for telecommunications or telecommunications 

23





 


services.
The extent to which our services are viewed as telecommunications/ telecommunications services or as information services will also affect our contributions. 

        The
FCC seeks comment on how to further reform the manner in which the FCC assesses carrier contributions to the universal service fund. We are unable to predict the changes, if any, the
FCC will adopt and the cumulative effect of any such changes on our total universal service contribution payments. 



 European Regulation  



        Unlike the United States which has a fractured regulatory scheme with respect to VoIP services, the European Union has adopted a more systematic approach to the
convergence of networks and VoIP regulation specifically. The European Commission will oversee the implementation by its member-states of six new directives developed to regulate electronic
communications in a technology and platform-neutral manner. Implementation of the directives has not been uniform across the Member States and it is difficult to predict when they will be implemented
at the national level. Even with harmonization, the national regulatory agencies will continue to be responsible for issuing general authorizations and specific licenses. 


        The
European Union's approach to the regulation of VoIP turns on whether VoIP is voice telephony. The European Commission has defined voice telephony to have four elements:
(1) commercial offering as voice telephony; (2) provision to the public; (3) provision to and from the public switched telephone network termination points; and (4) direct
speech transport and switching of speech in real time, particularly at the same level of reliability and speech quality as provided by the PSTN. In its Communication from the Commission, Consultation
on Voice on the Internet in June 2000, the commission directed that "Member States should continue to allow Internet access providers to offer voice over Internet protocol under data
transmission general authorizations, and that specific licensing conditions are not justified." 


        The
Commission has subsequently redefined its definitions to suggest that some VoIP offerings are voice telephony. In its December 2000 communication, the Commission noted that
increasing quality and reliability as well as marketing of voice capabilities with bundled services, made certain kinds of "voice over Internet" much more like voice services. While the current
Commission directives do not mandate the treatment of VoIP as voice telephony, the commission will continue to reevaluate the regulation of VoIP as service quality becomes the equivalent of
traditional voice telephony. 

        In
February 2003, the European Union adopted a new regulatory framework for electronic communications that is designed to address in a technologically neutral manner the
convergence of communications across telecommunications, computer and broadcasting networks. The directives address: (1) framework (2) interconnection and access,
(3) authorization and licensing, (4) universal service and (5) privacy. These directives and an additional decision on radio spectrum replace the existing 20 directives on
electronic communications. Under the framework, voice telephony providers will face additional obligations, including specific licensing and universal service obligations. Others will likely face new
regulation. One example could be VoIP. If it is classified as an electronic communications service, rather than voice telephony, it would still be subject to additional regulations to achieve
regulatory parity with other electronic communications. 

        The
United Kingdom was one of the first countries to fully implement the European Union's new framework for electronic communications, which it did by July 25, 2003. At that time,
certain provisions of the United Kingdom's Telecommunications Act of 1984 were repealed. Pursuant to that framework, the licensing regime was replaced with a general authorization. Our existing
licenses were canceled and replaced with a general authorization. 

24




 


        Under
the regime, the United Kingdom regulates VoIP as an electronic communication service. The degree of regulation imposed on the service depends upon whether the service is considered
to be a Publicly Available Telephone Service (PATS). A service is considered to be a PATS if the following conditions are met: it is marketed as a substitute for the traditional telephone service; the
service appears to the customer to be a substitute for the traditional public telephone service over which they expect access to emergency services; or the service provides the customers sole means of
access to the traditional circuit switched public telephone network. 

        While
the Ofcom, the United Kingdom regulator, has established technical standards and interconnection rights for VoIP service providers, it has recently opened a consultation to assess
the appropriate allocation of phone numbers to VoIP providers. We cannot predict the result of this proceeding and how it will affect our ability to provide services. 

        As
we expand the deployment of our VoIP applications in Europe, we will have to consider the appropriate regulatory requirements for each nation before deploying services. 



 Canadian Regulation  



        The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, or the CRTC, has jurisdiction to regulate long distance telecommunications services in Canada.
Regulatory developments over the past several years have terminated the historic monopolies of the regional telephone companies, bringing significant competition to this industry for both domestic and
international long distance services, but also lessening regulation of domestic long distance companies. Resellers, which, as well as facilities based carriers, now have interconnection rights, but
which are not obligated to file tariffs, may not only provide transborder services to the U.S. by reselling the services provided by the regional companies and other entities but also may resell the
services of the former monopoly international carrier, Teleglobe Canada or Teleglobe, including offering international switched services provisioned over leased lines. Although the CRTC formerly
restricted the practice of "switched hubbing" over leased lines through intermediate countries to or from a third country, the CRTC lifted this restriction. The Teleglobe monopoly on international
services and undersea cable landing rights terminated as of October 1, 1998, although the provision of Canadian international transmission facilities based services
remains restricted to "Canadian carriers" with majority ownership by Canadians. Ownership of non-international transmission facilities are limited to Canadian carriers but we can own
international undersea cables landing in Canada. We cannot, under current law, enter the Canadian market as a provider of transmission facilities based domestic services. In 2003, two committees of
the Canadian House of Commons issued conflicting recommendations on whether to lift the foreign ownership restrictions that prohibit carriers like us from owning intra-Canadian transmission
facilities. If the ownership restrictions are repealed, we anticipate that we will be able to expand our operations and service offerings in Canada. Recent CRTC rulings address issues such as the
framework for international contribution charges payable to the local exchange carriers to offset some of the capital and operating costs of the provision of switched local access services of the
incumbent regional telephone companies, in their capacity as ILECs, and the new entrant CLECs. 

        While
competition is permitted in virtually all other Canadian telecommunications market segments, we believe that the regional companies continue to retain a substantial majority of the
local and calling card markets. Beginning in May 1997, the CRTC released a number of decisions opening to competition the Canadian local telecommunications services market, which decisions were
made applicable in the territories of all of the regional telephone companies. As a result, networks operated by CLECs may now be interconnected with the networks of the ILECs. Transmission facilities
based CLECs are subject to the same majority Canadian ownership "Canadian carrier" requirements as transmission facilities based long distance carriers. CLECs have the same status as ILECs, but they
do not have universal service or customer tariff-filing obligations. CLECs are subject to certain consumer protection safeguards and other CRTC regulatory oversight requirements. CLECs must file 

25




 


interconnection
tariffs for services to interexchange service providers and wireless service providers. Certain ILEC services must be provided to CLECs on an unbundled basis and subject to mandatory
pricing, including central office codes, subscriber listings, and local loops in small urban and rural areas. For a five-year period, certain other important CLEC services must be provided
on an unbundled basis at mandated prices, notably unbundled local loops in large, urban areas. ILECs, which, unlike CLECs, remained fully regulated, are subject to price cap regulation in respect of
their utility services and these services must not be priced below cost. Interexchange contribution payments are now pooled and distributed among ILECs and CLECs according to a formula based on their
respective proportions of residential lines, with no explicit contribution payable from local business exchange or directory revenue. CLECs must pay an annual telecommunications fee based on their
proportion of total CLEC operating revenue. All bundled and unbundled local services (including residential lines and other bulk services) may now be resold, but ILECs need not provide these services
to resellers at wholesale prices. Transmission facilities based local and long distance carriers (but not resellers) are entitled to colocate equipment in ILEC central offices pursuant to terms and
conditions of tariffs and intercarrier agreements. Certain local competition issues are still to be resolved. The CRTC has ruled that resellers cannot be classified as CLECs, and thus are not entitled
to CLEC interconnection terms and conditions. The CRTC conducted a proceeding in 2004 to review issues relating to the introduction of VoIP technology. The CRTC has expressed a number of preliminary
views about how it proposes to regulate VoIP services including the view that VoIP services (and service providers) should be regulated according to the CRTC's existing rules. If the preliminary views
are confirmed, then the rules for VoIP-based services will depend on the category of service provider (ie., ILEC, CLEC or reseller), the nature of the service and the geographic area in
which the service is provided. 

Information Services Business  

        In connection with our belief that communications services are direct substitutes for existing modes of information distribution, and for other strategic and
tactical reasons, during 2002, we entered the businesses of direct marketing of computer software and computer software license management. Today, this business is conducted by our subsidiary Software
Spectrum and its subsidiaries, which we refer to collectively as Software Spectrum. 

        We
believe that companies will, over time, seek information technology operating efficiency by purchasing software functionality and data storage as commercial services procured over
broadband networks such as our network or as outsourced services that also use a broadband network for delivery to the customer. We believe that the combination of our network infrastructure and
service development capabilities, and Software Spectrum's expertise in software lifecycle management and marketing, as well as strong customer relationships, may position us to benefit as companies
change the manner in which they buy and use software capability. 

        Through
Software Spectrum, we are a leading direct marketer of software and provider of licensing services to corporations. Software Spectrum has sales offices and operations located in
North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific. Software Spectrum serves as an attractive, variable-cost sales and marketing channel for software publishers who wish to market, sell and distribute
their products while limiting their need to rely exclusively on their own direct sales force. Software Spectrum has established software marketing and resale arrangements with major software
publishers, including Adobe Systems, Citrix Systems, Computer Associates, IBM, McAfee, Microsoft, Novell, Sun Microsystems, Symantec and Trend Micro. Software Spectrum focuses on desktop productivity
applications and related server, management and security products, such as Microsoft Office, Microsoft Windows, Adobe Acrobat, Microsoft SQL, Citrix MetaFrame® and Symantec Antivirus.
Software Spectrum also recently has developed and launched its Media Plane™ software to further assist businesses in managing their software assets. 

26




 


        Software
Spectrum's strategy is to continue to help corporations increase their focus on their performance by improving how they select, purchase and manage software. Software Spectrum
will seek to do this principally by leveraging its existing customer relationships, continuing to strengthen its relationships with software publishers, and further expanding its presence in the
small-medium business or SMB market. Software Spectrum controls its costs by centralizing its administrative and customer service operations while utilizing a geographically dispersed field sales
force strategically located in major business markets worldwide. The majority of Software Spectrum's revenue is derived from sales to large organizations, including Fortune 500® and
Fortune Global 500® companies, as well as thousands of mid-sized customers from many industries. 


        Through
its global sales force and sales engineers, Software Spectrum provides software licenses and related services to large and mid-sized organizations, including
companies in the Fortune 500® and Fortune Global 500® rankings. Software Spectrum concentrates on building and expanding these relationships through personal sales contacts
made throughout major global computing markets. Through its strategically located, centralized operations centers in North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific, Software Spectrum supports the global
marketing efforts of its sales force. 

        Software
Spectrum's website, www.SoftwareSpectrum.com, includes an e-commerce business center which helps customers meet their total procurement, asset management, reporting,
standards management and order tracking needs and which provides customers the option of obtaining their software electronically. In addition, the website contains company news and information
designed to educate customers about its services, its software titles (including third-party reviews), the publishers it represents and the latest trends in the industry. Software Spectrum conducts
online seminars, or webinars, to train its customers on its online services and hosts partner webinars. 

        Software
Spectrum adapts its product related services to specific customer requests, consults with customers on developing strategies to efficiently select, purchase and manage the
customer's investment in software and manages the accurate and timely delivery of products. Software Spectrum provides its customers with information on, advice regarding and assistance with the wide
range of available software choices through its marketing, sales and technical staff. For customers electing to standardize desktop software applications or otherwise take advantage of
right-to-copy arrangements, Software Spectrum provides licensing agreement services and support. Under licensing agreements, Software Spectrum acts as a designated service
provider to sell software licensing rights that permit customers to make copies of a publisher's software program from a master disk and distribute this software within a customer's organization for a
fee per copy made. Maintenance agreements entitle customers to updates and upgrades of covered products during the term of the Agreement, typically three years following the software purchase.
By utilizing licensing agreements, customers are able to consolidate their worldwide purchases and acquire software under a single master agreement for a given publisher from a global supplier such as
Software Spectrum. Increasingly, customers are electing to use enterprise-wide licensing agreements, which give the customer the right to use a particular suite of products offered by a
publisher on all desktops across its enterprise. Software Spectrum's licensing consultants can assist customers in selecting the most advantageous form of licensing available based on specific needs
or constraints. Among its other services, Software Spectrum offers on-site consultants for large corporations, who provide software selection assistance, software asset management and
determination of price and availability of hard-to-find software products. 

        Software
Spectrum serves an important role in the software industry by providing a service-oriented and cost-effective means for software publishers to market, sell,
distribute and provide support for their products. The services provided by Software Spectrum assist publishers by building product awareness, marketing products directly on behalf of publishers to
businesses and other organizations. Software Spectrum is also instrumental in the selection, design and implementation of licensing programs for its customers. Software Spectrum believes that
maintaining its relationships with software publishers is important to Software Spectrum's future growth and profitability. Software Spectrum often 

27




 


will
coordinate product introductions and marketing programs with publishers, which may involve joint regional product seminars and cross selling of selected complementary products. By providing
pre-sales services and marketing support, Software Spectrum can obtain competitive discounts from many software publishers, avail itself of marketing funds provided by major publishers and
work closely with publisher personnel on various marketing and selling matters such as the introduction of new products, programs and related service opportunities. 

        Software
publishers sell software to customers both directly and through indirect sales channels. Over time, the sale of software to corporate customers has evolved from a
one-time sale of boxed products accompanied by perpetual licenses to complex licensing agreements with associated annual subscription payments. As software sales increasingly consist of
licensing agreements that are predominantly sold through indirect sales channels, there is a greater focus by publishers and customers on the licensing knowledge and expertise of the indirect sales
channel. Software Spectrum believes that its experience in working with leading software publishers and demanding corporate customers over the last 20 years, as well as its ability to sell
software globally, positions it well within the software direct marketing industry. 

        Software
Spectrum's North American operations are based in Plano, Texas, and Software Spectrum also maintains a product center located in Spokane, Washington. Software Spectrum's
European operations are based in Munich, Germany, and Software Spectrum also maintains offices in Holland, Belgium, France, Italy, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Software Spectrum's
Asia/Pacific headquarters is located in Sydney, Australia. Software Spectrum also has offices in Singapore and Hong Kong. In Japan, Software Spectrum operates through a minority investment in a
company named Uchida Spectrum, Inc. 

        With
centralized operations centers in North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific, Software Spectrum is able to serve the major computing technology markets around the world. Today, Software
Spectrum provides software or fulfillment services to customers located in approximately 170 countries, invoices customers in many local currencies and provides consolidated worldwide reporting for
its customers. 

Products and Services  



 Advice, Information and Education  



        Software Spectrum advises, informs and educates its customers regarding the wide range of procurement and licensing choices available to them. Software Spectrum
publishes newsletters, service and product brochures and product catalogs, and also provides other timely information coincident with major product releases. 

        Software
Spectrum authors and provides white papers and consulting advice to its customers to allow customers to realize the potential benefits associated with licensing programs.
Software Spectrum provides its customers with a methodology for evaluating their individual software management process and analyzing issues in selecting and implementing the licensing programs
offered by various publishers. Software Spectrum's advice is designed to assist customers in selecting a software management plan, including internal distribution services, communicating with end
users, reporting and complying with licensing agreements. 

        Software
Spectrum's customer magazine, In Touch™, provides new product information and case studies from existing customers who are implementing the latest products and
technologies from the leading software publishers worldwide and offers news and commentary on industry trends and Company-sponsored seminars and other technology related events. Software Spectrum
prepares and distributes a Licensing and Software Management Guide™ which provides the purchasing requirements and qualification restrictions of the numerous licensing publisher programs.
Software Spectrum's customers have expressed interest in this publication, which Software Spectrum believes is a result of 

28




 


the
potential savings a corporation can realize by utilizing alternative procurement methods provided by this publication Software Spectrum's newsletter, Inside Track™, contains publisher
news and is sent to its sales force monthly via email. Software Spectrum's sales force then redistributes the newsletter to customers. 


        Software
Spectrum's website contains company news and information designed to educate customers about its services, its software titles (including third party reviews), the publishers it
represents and the latest trends in the industry. Software Spectrum conducts online seminars, or webinars, to train its
customers on its online services and host partner webinars. Additionally, Software Spectrum convenes a global customer roundtable twice a year and schedules other roundtables as part of its publisher
marketing. 



 Licensing Services  



        Software Spectrum's customers can acquire software applications either through licensing agreements or by purchasing boxed products. Over 80% of Software
Spectrum's customers purchase their software applications through licensing agreements, which Software Spectrum believes is a result of the ease of administration they provide and their cost effective
nature. Licensing agreements, or right-to-copy agreements, allow a customer to either purchase a license for each of its users in a single transaction or periodically report
its software usage, paying a license fee for each user. For customers, the overall cost of using one of these methods of acquiring software may be substantially less than purchasing boxed products. 


        As
software publishers choose different procedures for implementing licensing agreements, businesses are faced with a significant challenge to evaluate all the alternatives and
procedures to ensure that they select the appropriate agreements, comply with the publishers' licensing terms and properly report and pay for their software licenses. A large, multinational
corporation may have over 100,000 users located at multiple locations around the world, increasing the complexity associated with purchasing and managing their software assets. Software Spectrum works
closely with its customers to understand their requirements and educate them regarding the options available under licensing agreements. 


        Many
of Software Spectrum's customers who have elected to purchase software licenses through licensing agreements have also purchased software maintenance, which allows customers to
receive new versions, upgrades or updates of software products released during the maintenance period in exchange for a specified annual fee. These fees maybe paid in monthly, quarterly or annual
installments. Upgrades and updates are revisions to previously published software that improve or enhance certain features of the software and/or correct errors found in previous versions. Software
Spectrum assists publishers and customers in tracking and renewing these agreements. 

        Software
Spectrum's proprietary systems support the requirements necessary to service licensing agreements for its customers. Software Spectrum's systems provide individualized customer
contract management data, assist customers in complying with licensing agreements and provide customers with necessary reporting information. 

29






<A
NAME="page_cg1142_1_30">  



 Procurement Services  



        Most of Software Spectrum's products are ordered by the customer's procurement or IT department and may be billed to another department of the customer at a
different site. These customers can submit orders telephonically, by facsimile or email or through their computer systems via e-commerce capabilities, such as Software Spectrum's
electronic data interchange (EDI) capabilities or its website. 

        Software
Spectrum participates in the electronic procurement arena in order to help customers control costs, streamline the procurement process and improve operational efficiencies.
Software Spectrum does this primarily through its website and its Electronic Business-to-Business Partner Program (e-B2B Partner Program): 



•Software Spectrum's website. Software Spectrum's website provides tools which allow customers to restrict purchasing only to
pre-approved products or allow an administrator at a customer location to give users within that organization access to the customer's online account, but restrict the level of their
activity and the features and options available to them. Through its website, Software Spectrum makes available open-order status and purchase activity reports formatted to meet each
customer's specifications. Software Spectrum also maintains a suite of Internet-based tools that enable customers to manage their software procurement. For most of its larger customers, Software
Spectrum creates customized electronic product catalogs containing product information and pricing. These electronic catalogs are accessed through search engine functionality, which enables customers
to quickly locate and compare products they need.
•Software Spectrum's e-B2B Partner Program. Under Software Spectrum's e-B2B Partner Program, Software
Spectrum has established relationships with e-procurement providers, such as Ariba, Oracle, Perfect Commerce and SAP to support customers' implementations of the various
e-procurement platforms in an effort to streamline procurement processes and improve operational efficiencies. 



Fulfillment Services  


        Software Spectrum's customers receive the software they purchase in one of three ways: 



•directly
from the publisher;
•from
a distributor; or
•electronically.



        A
significant portion of the physical fulfillment of software for Software Spectrum's customers is performed by the publisher, and Software Spectrum has out sourced substantially all of
the remaining physical fulfillment of software for its customers to third-party distributors. Under arrangements with such distributors, Software Spectrum obtains distribution services for products
purchased directly from the distributors, as well as for odd and hard-to-find products that it purchases elsewhere. Product fulfilled through third party distributors usually
ships the same day Software Spectrum receives the order. Electronic software distribution (ESD) supports the fast, convenient delivery of software products between businesses via electronic links such
as the Internet. Software Spectrum currently delivers a limited amount of software in this manner and intends to continue to participate in this method of distribution as demand for this service by
large organizations emerges and as communication technology improvements enable ESD to become more widely used. 

30




 



 Media Plane™ Software  



        In January 2005, Software Spectrum launched sales of Media Plane™, an integrated software asset management platform that is designed to enable
IT organizations to gain better control of their software assets, thereby saving money and ensuring software compliance. Software Spectrum
developed the Media Plane™ software after having observed in its primary software direct marketing business that, in spite of investing in software asset management tools, its customers
still make unnecessary purchases, fall out of compliance with software licenses, are slow to distribute software to their employees, and do not feel that they are in control of their software asset
lifecycle. The Media Plane™ software is designed to help companies manage complex licenses by determining who is entitled to purchase or use a software license, the right media for a
license entitlement, how to access the software, how to entitle users, groups and the enterprise to receive the software, and how to manage entitlements going forward. The Media Plane™
software is designed to integrate with a company's internal processes and other asset management technology to allow the company to more efficiently purchase, deploy and manage their software assets. 


Sales and Marketing  

        Software Spectrum sells and markets its products and services to existing and potential customers through its sales force and the use of printed collateral, web
marketing, industry conferences and direct marketing programs. Software Spectrum's sales force consists of account managers, customer account service representatives, field-based sales representatives
and sales engineers, as well as its sales marketing and support staff. 

        Software
Spectrum's field-based account managers are responsible for specific accounts and/or a specific territory, which generally includes major metropolitan areas in one or more
countries, states or provinces. Account managers work directly with senior and mid-level procurement managers and IT managers of existing and potential enterprise customers to identify the
specific needs of each customer and to facilitate both the purchase of software products and the utilization of Software Spectrum's services by the customer's organization. For national and global
accounts, several account managers may work with the customer in different parts of North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific, coordinated by a designated national or global account manager. The number
of accounts handled by each account manager depends on the relative size of the accounts and the level of service required by each customer within the assigned territory. 

        Software
Spectrum's centralized customer account service representatives work with large product accounts, generally with each customer having a dedicated team member as its primary
contact. Customer account service representatives, who are based primarily at Software Spectrum's operations centers, handle all aspects of the day-to-day customer account
servicing, including common presale questions, customer order placement, order status inquiries, requests for demonstration products for evaluation and searches for
hard-to-find products. They also help customers perform many of these functions directly by guiding them through the variety of options available on Software Spectrum's
website. This structure enables customer service representatives to develop close relationships with individuals within the customer's organization and to better serve them by being familiar with
their account. 

        Software
Spectrum's field-based sales representatives are responsible for soliciting software business from SMB customers located in major geographic markets. These sales representatives
handle the day-to-day customer account servicing for such organizations. Although product price and delivery terms are key factors in SMB organizations, Software Spectrum also
provides a broad range of licensing agreement support and services to this category of customers. Initial contact and sales are made typically through field engagement, telephone inquiries, business
partner referrals or web-based self-service offerings. In January 2004, Software Spectrum began to increase the size of its sales force 

31




 


targeting
SMB customers. Software Spectrum's field-based sales representatives constitute a significant portion of this increased sales force, and Software Spectrum will rely upon them as it seeks to
focus its efforts to expand its presence in the SMB market. 

        Software
Spectrum's sales engineers support the efforts of its account managers, customer account services representatives and field-based sales representatives. These sales engineers
have received training from software publishers within an industry segment and advise customers regarding selection of software programs by assisting them in matching the requirements of their
technical environments with the various features of available software products. 

Support Systems  

        Software Spectrum has developed certain proprietary support systems that facilitate the delivery of products and services to its customers and has invested in
technology based systems to support the special requirements necessary to service licensing agreements for its customers. Software Spectrum's customized web-based customer service system
is written in Microsoft ASP and .NET, provides individualized contract management data, assists customers in complying with the terms of their licensing agreements and provides customers with
necessary reporting mechanisms. Using individualized data in this system, in conjunction with Software Spectrum's contract management database, Software Spectrum's representatives can guide a customer
through the various purchasing options and assist in administering licensing agreements. The system also provides Software Spectrum's account managers and customer account service representatives with
a customer profile, account status, order status and product pricing and availability details. 


Products and Distribution  

        Software Spectrum markets a full array of software titles for managing, enabling and securing business enterprises. The software products offered by Software
Spectrum include all major business programs for the desktop and server environment including strategic product categories for security storage and
Web infrastructure. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the top 10 software titles sold by Software Spectrum represented approximately 54% of Software Spectrum's net software sales. 

Customers  

        In 2005, Software Spectrum served approximately 6,500 corporate customers worldwide, of which over 3,500 are included in Software Spectrum's definition of SMB
customers. Software Spectrum's customer base includes corporations, government agencies, educational institutions, non-profit organizations and other business entities. Sales contracts
with large customers for the procurement of products generally cover a one- to three-year period subject to the customers' rights to terminate the contract upon notice. These
contracts usually include provisions regarding price, availability, payment terms and return policies. Standard payment terms with Software Spectrum's customers are net 30 days from the date of
invoice or net 10 days in the case of summary periodic billings to customers. In 2005, no single customer represented more than 5% of Software Spectrum's revenue, and Software Spectrum's
customer base included approximately 287 of the Fortune 500 companies and approximately 258 of the Fortune Global 500® companies. Software Spectrum does not believe that the loss of any
single customer would have a material adverse effect on its revenue. 

Publishers and Distributors  

        Software Spectrum's software sales are derived from products purchased from publishers and distributors. The decision whether to buy products directly from
publishers or through distributors is determined on a case-by-case basis based on publisher requirements, cost, availability, return privileges and demand for a particular
product. For 2005, approximately 87% of Software Spectrum's sales, based 

32




 


on
revenue, represented products purchased from its ten largest publishers. For 2005, products from Microsoft and IBM/Lotus accounted for approximately 59% and 10% of software revenue, respectively. 

        Software
Spectrum has contractual relationships with all its major vendors covering price, payment terms and return privileges. These contracts are non-exclusive and are
generally terminable by either party without cause upon 30 to 60 days notice. Software Spectrum's contracts with its major vendors are generally for one or two-year terms, and the
majority contain no provision for automatic renewal. 

        Publisher
contracts generally permit Software Spectrum to submit adjustment reports for licensing and maintenance transactions within a certain time period after the transaction is
reported. Such contracts do not typically require Software Spectrum to ensure end-user compliance with its publishers' licensing and copyright or patent right protection provisions.
Certain of Software Spectrum's contracts with vendors provide for early payment discounts. Under the terms of its vendor contracts, Software Spectrum is not generally required to meet any minimum
purchase or sales requirements, except to the extent that Software Spectrum's level of purchases or sales may affect the amount or availability of financial incentives, advertising allowances and
marketing funds. The reduction in amount, discontinuance of, or Software Spectrum's inability to meet requirements established by vendors for achieving financial incentives, advertising allowances and
marketing funds could have an adverse effect on Software Spectrum's business and financial results, and may have an adverse effect on Level 3's consolidated financial results. 

Competition  

        The software direct marketing business is intensely competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, product availability, speed of delivery, quality and
breadth of offerings, ability to tailor specific solutions to meet customer needs and credit availability. Software Spectrum faces competition from a wide variety of sources, including software and
hardware direct marketers, OEMs and large systems integrators. Many competitors have substantially greater financial resources than Software Spectrum does. Some of Software Spectrum's
competitors may provide a broader range of services, such as extending long-term capital financing or offering bundled hardware and software solutions. Companies that compete in this
market, including Software Spectrum, are characterized by low gross and operating margins. Consequently, Software Spectrum's performance is highly-dependent upon maintaining scale and effective cost
and management controls. 

        Current
competitors from the software and hardware direct marketing category include ASAP Software, CDW, Insight, SoftChoice and Softwarehouse International. Competitors also include
OEMs and large systems integrators. These companies distribute and deliver software to large and mid-size organizations as part of their offering. Such competitors include
Dell Inc. and Hewlett Packard Corporation, hardware manufacturers that also sell software, and systems integrators such as Compucom Systems, Inc. Many of these companies have a global
presence. Software Spectrum believes that its global presence and capabilities, licensing expertise, software focus, and knowledgeable industry experienced personnel serve to distinguish it from its
competitors. 

        Software
publishers may intensify their efforts to sell their products directly to end users to the exclusion of the indirect sales channel. End users have traditionally been able to
purchase upgrades directly from publishers. Over the past few years, some publishers have instituted programs for the direct sale of large order quantities of software to major corporate
accounts, and Software Spectrum anticipates that these types of transactions will continue to be used by various publishers in the future. Software Spectrum could be adversely affected if major
software publishers successfully implement or expand programs for the direct sale of software through volume purchase agreements or other arrangements intended to exclude the direct marketing channel.
Software Spectrum believes that the total range of services and software titles it provides to its customers cannot be easily substituted by individual software publishers, particularly because
individual publishers do not offer the scope of 

33




 


services
or range of software titles required by most of Software Spectrum's customers. However, there can be no assurance that publishers will not increase their efforts to sell substantial
quantities of software directly to end users without engaging Software Spectrum to provide value added services. 


        Should
publishers permit others to sell licensing agreements, or should additional competitors develop the capabilities required to service and support large licensing programs, Software
Spectrum's competitive advantage could be negatively impacted. If the direct marketing channel's participation in licensing agreements is reduced or eliminated, or if other methods of distribution of
software become common, Software Spectrum's business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. 

Our Other Businesses  

        Our company was incorporated as Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc. in Delaware in 1941 to continue a construction business founded in Omaha, Nebraska in 1884. In
subsequent years, we invested a portion of the cash flow generated by our construction activities in a variety of other businesses. We entered the coal mining business in 1943, the
telecommunications business in 1988, the information services business in 1990 and the alternative energy business in 1991. Level 3 also has made investments in several development-stage ventures. 

        In
December 1997, our stockholders ratified the decision of the Board to effect the split-off separating our historical construction business from the remainder of our
operations. As a result of the split-off, which was completed on March 31, 1998, we no longer own any interest in the prior construction business. In conjunction with the
split-off, we changed our name to "Level 3 Communications, Inc.," and the entity that held the prior construction business changed its name to "Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc." 

        On
November 30, 2005, we completed the sale of our (i)Structure, LLC subsidiary to Infocrossing, Inc. for $84.8 million in
total consideration, including $82.3 million in cash and $2.5 million in Infocrossing
common stock. Prior to the sale, (i)Structure provided computer operations outsourcing to customers located primarily in the United States. 



 Coal Mining  



        We are engaged in coal mining through our subsidiary, KCP, Inc. ("KCP"). KCP has a 50% interest in two mines, which are operated by a subsidiary of Peter
Kiewit Sons', Inc. ("PKS"). Decker Coal Company ("Decker") is a joint venture with Western Minerals, Inc., a subsidiary of The RTZ Corporation PLC. Black Butte Coal Company ("Black
Butte") is a joint venture with Bitter Creek Coal Company, a subsidiary of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation. The Decker mine is located in southeastern Montana and the Black Butte mine is in
southwestern Wyoming. The coal mines use the surface mining method. 

        The
coal produced from the KCP mines is sold primarily to electric utilities, which burn coal to produce steam to generate electricity. Essentially all of the sales in 2004 were made
under long-term contracts. Approximately 44%, 59% and 59% of KCP's revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, were derived from long-term contracts with Commonwealth Edison
Company (with Decker) and The Detroit Edison Company (with Decker). KCP has commitments to deliver approximately 15.4 million tons of coal through 2012 under contracts with Commonwealth Edison
and Detroit Edison. KCP also has other sales commitments, including those with Sierra Pacific, Idaho Power, PacifiCorp, Intermountain Power Agency, Minnesota Power, and Ki Energy that provide for the
delivery of approximately 12 million tons through 2009. The level of cash flows generated in recent periods by our coal operations will not continue because the delivery requirements under
certain of our current long-term contracts decline significantly. Under a mine management agreement, KCP pays a subsidiary of PKS an annual fee equal to 30% of KCP's adjusted operating
income. The fee for 2005 was $5 million. 

34




 


        The
coal industry is highly competitive. KCP competes not only with other domestic and foreign coal suppliers, some of whom are larger and have greater capital resources than KCP, but
also with alternative methods of generating electricity and alternative energy sources. In 2004, the most recent year for which information is available, KCP's production represented less than 1% of
total U.S. coal production. Demand for KCP's coal is affected by economic, political and regulatory factors. For example, recent "clean air" laws may stimulate demand for low sulfur coal. KCP's
western coal reserves generally have a low sulfur content (less than one percent) and are currently useful principally as fuel for coal-fired, steam-electric generating units. 

        KCP's
sales of its coal, like sales by other western coal producers, typically provide for delivery to customers at the mine. A significant portion of the customer's delivered cost of
coal is attributable to transportation costs. Most of the coal sold from KCP's western mines is currently shipped by rail to utilities outside Montana and Wyoming. The Decker and Black Butte mines are
each served by a single railroad. Many of their western coal competitors are served by two railroads and such competitors' customers often benefit from lower transportation costs because of
competition between railroads for coal hauling business. Other western coal producers, particularly those in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming, have lower stripping ratios (that is, the amount of
overburden that must be removed in proportion to the amount of minable coal) than the Black Butte and Decker mines, often resulting in lower comparative costs of production. As a result, KCP's
production costs per ton of coal at the Black Butte and Decker mines can be as much as four and five times greater than production costs of certain competitors. Because of these cost disadvantages,
there is no assurance that KCP will be able to enter into additional long-term coal purchase contracts for Black Butte and Decker production. In addition, these cost disadvantages may
adversely affect KCP's ability to compete for sales in the future. 

        We
are required to comply with various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning protection of the environment. KCP's share of land reclamation expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2005 was approximately $4 million. KCP's share of accrued estimated reclamation costs was $97 million at December 31, 2005. We did not make significant capital
expenditures for environmental compliance with respect to the coal business in 2005. We believe our compliance with environmental protection and land restoration laws will not affect our competitive
position since our competitors in the mining industry are similarly affected by such laws. However, failure to comply with environmental protection and land restoration laws, or actual reclamation
costs in excess of our accruals, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

35






<A
NAME="page_ci1142_1_36">   Glossary of Terms  




access
 
Telecommunications services that permit long distance carriers to use local exchange facilities to originate and/or terminate long distance service.


access charges
 
The fees paid by long distance carriers to LECs for originating and terminating long distance calls on the LECs' local networks.


backbone
 
A high-speed network that interconnects smaller, independent networks. It is the through-portion of a transmission network, as opposed to spurs which branch off the through-portions.


CAP
 
Competitive Access Provider. A company that provides its customers with an alternative to the local exchange company for local transport of private line and special access telecommunications services.


capacity
 
The information carrying ability of a telecommunications facility.


Carrier
 
A provider of communications transmission services by fiber, wire or radio.


Central Office
 
Telephone company facility where subscribers' lines are joined to switching equipment for connecting other subscribers to each other, locally and long distance.


CLEC
 
Competitive Local Exchange Carrier. A company that competes with LECs in the local services market.


co-carrier
 
A relationship between a CLEC and an ILEC that affords each company the same access to and right on the other's network and provides access and services on an equal basis.


Common carrier
 
A government-defined group of private companies offering telecommunications services or facilities to the general public on a non-discriminatory basis.


conduit
 
A pipe, usually made of metal, ceramic or plastic, that protects buried cables.


DS-3
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 45 Mbps.


dark fiber
 
Fiber optic strands that are not connected to transmission equipment.


dedicated lines
 
Telecommunications lines reserved for use by particular customers.


dialing parity
 
The ability of a competing local or toll service provider to provide telecommunications services in such a manner that customers have the ability to route automatically, without the use of any access code, their
telecommunications to the service provider of the customers' designation.


equal access
 
The basis upon which customers of interexchange carriers are able to obtain access to their Primary Interexchange Carriers' (PIC) long distance telephone network by dialing "1", thus eliminating the need to dial
additional digits and an authorization code to obtain such access.


facilities based carriers
 
Carriers that own and operate their own network and equipment.


 
 
 



36




 



fiber optics
 
A technology in which light is used to transport information from one point to another. Fiber optic cables are thin filaments of glass through which light beams are transmitted over long distances carrying enormous
amounts of data. Modulating light on thin strands of glass produces major benefits including high bandwidth, relatively low cost, low power consumption, small space needs and total insensitivity to electromagnetic interference.


Gbps
 
Gigabits per second. A transmission rate. One gigabit equals 1.024 billion bits of information.


ILEC
 
Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier. A company historically providing local telephone service. Often refers to one of the Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOCs). Often referred to as "LEC" (Local Exchange
Carrier).


Interconnection
 
Interconnection of facilities between or among the networks of carriers, including potential physical colocation of one carrier's equipment in the other carrier's premises to facilitate such interconnection.


InterLATA
 
Telecommunications services originating in a LATA and terminating outside of that LATA.


Internet
 
A global collection of interconnected computer networks which use a specific communications protocol.


IntraLATA
 
Telecommunications services originating and terminating in the same LATA.


ISDN
 
Integrated Services Digital Network. An information transfer standard for transmitting digital voice and data over telephone lines at speeds up to 128 Kbps.


ISPs
 
Internet Service Providers. Companies formed to provide access to the Internet to consumers and business customers via local networks.


IXC
 
Interexchange Carrier. A telecommunications company that provides telecommunications services between local exchanges on an interstate or intrastate basis.


Kbps
 
Kilobits per second. A transmission rate. One kilobit equals 1,024 bits of information.


LATA
 
Local Access and Transport Area. A geographic area composed of contiguous local exchanges, usually but not always within a single state. There are approximately 200 LATAs in the United States.


leased line
 
An amount of telecommunications capacity dedicated to a particular customer along predetermined routes.


LEC
 
Local Exchange Carrier. A telecommunications company that provides telecommunications services in a geographic area. LECs include both ILECs and CLECs.


local exchange
 
A geographic area determined by the appropriate state regulatory authority in which calls generally are transmitted without toll charges to the calling or called party.


local loop
 
A circuit that connects an end user to the LEC central office within a LATA.


 
 
 




37




 



long distance carriers
 
Long distance carriers provide services between local exchanges on an interstate or intrastate basis. A long distance carrier may offer services over its own or another carrier's facilities.


Mbps
 
Megabits per second. A transmission rate. One megabit equals 1.024 million bits of information.


MPLS
 
MultiProtocol Label Switching. A standards-approved technology for speeding up network traffic flow and making it easier to manage. MPLS involves setting up a specific path for a given sequence of packets, identified by a
label put in each packet, thus saving the time needed for a router or switch to look up the address to the next node to forward the packet to.


multiplexing
 
An electronic or optical process that combines a large number of lower speed transmission lines into one high speed line by splitting the total available bandwidth into narrower bands (frequency division), or by allotting
a common channel to several different transmitting devices, one at a time in sequence (time division).


NAP
 
Network Access Point. A location at which ISPs exchange traffic with each other.


OC-3
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 155 bps.


OC-12
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 622 Mbps.


OC-48
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at approximately 2.45 Gbps.


peering
 
The commercial practice under which ISPs exchange traffic with each other. Although ISPs are free to make a private commercial arrangement, there are generally two types of peering. With a settlement free peering
arrangement the ISPs do not need to pay each other for the exchange of traffic. With paid peering, the larger ISP receives payment from the smaller ISP to carry the traffic of that smaller ISP. Peering occurs at both public and private exchange
points.


POP
 
Point of Presence. Telecommunications facility where a communications provider locates network equipment used to connect customers to its network backbone.


private line
 
A dedicated telecommunications connection between end user locations.


PSTN
 
Public Switched Telephone Network. That portion of a local exchange company's network available to all users generally on a shared basis (i.e., not dedicated to a particular user). Traffic along the public switched
network is generally switched at the local exchange company's central offices.


Public Safety Answering Point
 
An answering location for 911 calls originating in a given area. PSAPs are typically a common bureau used to answer emergency calls and dispatch safety agencies such as police, fire, emergency medical, etc.


 
 
 



38




 



RBOCs
 
Regional Bell Operating Companies. Originally, the seven local telephone companies (formerly part of AT&T) established as a result of the AT&T Divestiture. Currently consists of four local telephone companies as a
result of the mergers of Bell Atlantic with NYNEX and SBC with Pacific Telesis and Ameritech.


reciprocal compensation
 
The compensation of a CLEC for termination of a local call by the ILEC on the CLEC's network, which is the same as the compensation that the CLEC pays the ILEC for termination of local calls on the ILEC's
network.


resale
 
Resale by a provider of telecommunications services (such as a LEC) of such services to other providers or carriers on a wholesale or a retail basis.


router
 
Equipment placed between networks that relays data to those networks based upon a destination address contained in the data packets being routed.


selective router
 
Telephone switch or functional equivalent, controlled by the relevant local exchange carrier (LEC), which determines the PSAP to which a 911 call should be delivered based on the location of the 911 caller.


SONET
 
Synchronous Optical Network. An electronics and network architecture for variable bandwidth products which enables transmission of voice, data and video (multimedia) at very high speeds. SONET ring architecture provides
for virtually instantaneous restoration of service in the event of a fiber cut or equipment failure by automatically rerouting traffic in the opposite direction around the ring.


special access services
 
The lease of private, dedicated telecommunications lines or "circuits" along the network of a local exchange company or a CAP, which lines or circuits run to or from the long distance carrier POPs. Examples of special
access services are telecommunications lines running between POPs of a single long distance carrier, from one long distance carrier POP to the POP of another long distance carrier or from an end user to a long distance carrier POP.


switch
 
A device that selects the paths or circuits to be used for transmission of information and establishes a connection. Switching is the process of interconnecting circuits to form a transmission path between users and it
also captures information for billing purposes.


Tbps
 
Terabits per second. A transmission rate. One terabit equals 1.024 trillion bits of information.


T-1
 
A data communications circuit capable of transmitting data at 1.544 Mbps.


 
 
 




39




 



unbundled
 
Services, programs, software and training sold separately from the hardware.


unbundled access
 
Access to unbundled elements of a telecommunications services provider's network including network facilities, equipment, features, functions and capabilities, at any technically feasible point within such
network.


VoIP
 
Voice over Internet Protocol


VPC
 
VoIP Positioning Center. An entity that maintains an end user location database and manages the technology including query keys and routing number pools used to deliver 911 calls to the correct PSAP for emergency
handling.


web site
 
A server connected to the Internet from which Internet users can obtain information.


wireless
 
A communications system that operates without wires. Cellular service is an example.


world wide web or web
 
A collection of computer systems supporting a communications protocol that permits multimedia presentation of information over the Internet.


xDSL
 
A term referring to a variety of new Digital Subscriber Line technologies. Some of these new varieties are asymmetric with different data rates in the downstream and upstream directions. Others are symmetric. Downstream
speeds range from 384 Kbps (or "SDSL") to 1.5 to 8 Mbps ("ADSL").




40






<A
NAME="page_ck1142_1_41">  



Directors and Executive Officers  


        Set forth below is information as of March 1, 2006, about our directors and our executive officers. Our executive officers have been determined in
accordance with the rules of the SEC. 




Name 
 
Age
 
Position


Walter Scott, Jr.(1)
 
74
 
Chairman of the Board


James Q. Crowe(1)
 
56
 
Chief Executive Officer and Director


Kevin J. O'Hara
 
45
 
President and Chief Operating Officer


Charles C. Miller, III
 
53
 
Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President


Thomas C. Stortz
 
54
 
Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary


John Neil Hobbs
 
46
 
Executive Vice President of Level 3 Communications, LLC


Sunit S. Patel
 
44
 
Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Keith R. Coogan
 
53
 
Chief Executive Officer of Software Spectrum


Eric J. Mortensen
 
47
 
Senior Vice President and Controller


Admiral James O. Ellis, Jr.(4)
 
58
 
Director


Richard R. Jaros(3)
 
54
 
Director


Robert E. Julian(2)
 
66
 
Director


Arun Netravali(3)
 
59
 
Director


John T. Reed(2)(4)
 
62
 
Director


Michael B. Yanney(1)(3)(4)
 
72
 
Director


Dr. Albert C. Yates(2)
 
64
 
Director






(1)Member
of Executive Committee
(2)Member
of Audit Committee
(3)Member
of Compensation Committee
(4)Member
of Nominating and Governance Committee 


Other Management  

        Set forth below is information as of March 1, 2006, about the following members of senior management of Level 3 Communications, LLC, except as otherwise
noted. 




Name 
 
Age
 
Position


Brady Rafuse
 
42
 
President and CEO of Europe Operations


Sureel A. Choksi
 
33
 
Executive Vice President


Edward F. McLaughlin
 
53
 
Executive Vice President


John F. Waters, Jr. 
 
41
 
Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer


Donald H. Gips
 
46
 
Group Vice President


Kevin T. Hart
 
39
 
Group Vice President


Joseph M. Howell, III
 
59
 
Group Vice President


Glenn Russo
 
46
 
Group Vice President


Christopher P. Yost
 
42
 
Group Vice President





        Walter
Scott, Jr. has been the Chairman of the Board of the Company since September 1979, and a director of the Company since April 1964. Mr. Scott has been Chairman
Emeritus of Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc. ("PKS") since the split-off. Mr. Scott is also a director of PKS, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., MidAmerican, Inc., and Valmont
Industries, Inc. and Chairman of the Board of Commonwealth 

41




 

Telephone
Enterprises, Inc. ("Commonwealth Telephone"). Mr. Scott is also the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 

        James
Q. Crowe has been the Chief Executive Officer of the Company since August 1997, and a director of the Company since June 1993. Mr. Crowe was also President of
the Company until February 2000. Mr. Crowe was President and Chief Executive Officer of MFS Communications Company, Inc. ("MFS") from June 1993 to June 1997.
Mr. Crowe also served as Chairman of the Board of WorldCom from January 1997 until July 1997, and as Chairman of the Board of MFS from 1992 through 1996. Mr. Crowe is
presently a director of Commonwealth Telephone. Mr. Crowe is also a member of the Executive Committee. 


        Kevin
J. O'Hara has been President of the Company since July 2000 and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since March 1998. Mr. O'Hara was also Executive Vice
President of the Company from August 1997 until July 2000. Prior to that, Mr. O'Hara served as President and Chief Executive Officer of MFS Global Network Services, Inc.
from 1995 to 1997, and as Senior Vice President of MFS and President of MFS Development, Inc. from October 1992 to August 1995. From 1990 to 1992, he was a Vice President of MFS
Telecom, Inc. ("MFS Telecom"). 

        Charles
C. Miller, III has been Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of the Company since February 15, 2001. Mr. Miller was also a director from February 15,
2001 until May 18, 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Miller was President of Bellsouth International, a subsidiary of Bellsouth Corporation from 1995 until December 2000. Prior to that,
Mr. Miller held various senior level officer and management position at BellSouth from 1987 until 1995. 

        Thomas
C. Stortz has been Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since February 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Stortz was Group Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary of the Company from February 2000 to February 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Stortz served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company
from September 1998 to February 1, 2000. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and General Counsel of Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc. and Kiewit Construction Group, Inc. from
April 1991 to September 1998. He has served as a director of Peter Kiewit Sons', Inc. 

        John
Neil Hobbs has been Executive Vice President Sales and Marketing since January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Hobbs was Group Vice President Global Sales from
September 2000 to January 2006. Prior to
that, Mr. Hobbs was President, Global Accounts for Concert, a joint venture between AT&T and British Telecom from July 1999 until September 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Hobbs
was Director Transition and Implementation for the formation of Concert representing British Telecom from June 1998 until July 1999. From April 1997 until June 1998,
Mr. Hobbs was British Telecom's General Manager for Global Sales & Service and from April 1994 until April 1997, Mr. Hobbs was British Telecom's General Manager for
Corporate Clients. 

        Sunit
S. Patel has been Chief Financial Officer since May 2003 and a Group Vice President of the Company since March 13, 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Patel was Chief
Financial Officer of Looking Glass Networks, Inc., a provider of metropolitan fiber optic networks, from April 2000 until March 2003. Mr. Patel was Treasurer of
WorldCom Inc. and MCIWorldcom Inc., each long distance telephone services providers from 1997 to March 2000. From 1994 to 1997, Mr. Patel was Treasurer of MFS
Communications Company Inc., a competitive local exchange carrier. 

        Keith
R. Coogan has been Chief Executive Officer of Software Spectrum since September 2002 and was named President in May 1998. Mr. Coogan has been Chief Operating
Officer of Software Spectrum since April 1996. Mr. Coogan served as Executive Vice President of Software Spectrum from April 1996 to May 1998 and had been a Vice President
of Software Spectrum since October 1990. From May 1989 until joining Software Spectrum, Mr. Coogan served as Vice President of Finance for Leather Center Holdings, Inc., a
privately held manufacturer and retailer of leather furniture. 

42




 


Mr. Coogan
is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Coogan is a director of CompX International Inc. and Kronos Worldwide, Inc. 

        Eric
J. Mortensen has been Senior Vice President and Controller of the Company since 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Mortensen was Vice President and Controller of the Company from 1999
to 2003 and was the Controller of the Company from 1997 to 1999. Prior to that, Mr. Mortensen was Controller and Assistant Controller of Kiewit Diversified Group for more than
five years. 

        Admiral
James O. Ellis, Jr. U.S. Navy (ret.) has been a director of the Company since March 2005. Effective May 18, 2005, Admiral Ellis became the president and chief
executive officer of INPO, a nonprofit corporation established by the nuclear utility industry in 1979 to promote the highest levels of safety and reliability in the operation of nuclear electric
generating plants. Admiral Ellis most recently served as Commander, U.S. Strategic Command in Omaha, Nebraska, before retiring in July 2004 after 35 years of service in the U.S. Navy, as
Commander of the Strategic Command. In his Naval career, he held numerous commands. A graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, he also holds M.S. degrees in Aerospace Engineering from the Georgia Institute
of Technology and in Aeronautical Systems from the University of West Florida. He served as a Naval aviator and was a graduate of the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School. Admiral Ellis is also a member of
the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, Inmarsat PLC and The Burlington Capital Group, LLC. Admiral Ellis is a member of the Nominating and Governance committee. 

        Richard
R. Jaros has been a director of the Company since June 1993 and served as President of the Company from 1996 to 1997. Mr. Jaros served as Executive Vice President
of the Company from 1993 to 1996 and Chief Financial Officer of the Company from 1995 to 1996. He also served as President and Chief Operating Officer of CalEnergy from 1992 to 1993, and is presently
a director of MidAmerican and Commonwealth Telephone. Mr. Jaros is a member of the Compensation Committee. 


        Robert
E. Julian has been a director of the Company since March 1998. From 1992 to 1995 Mr. Julian served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company. Mr. Julian is the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 

        Arun
Netravali has been a director of the Company since April 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Netravali was Chief Scientist for Lucent Technologies, working with academic and
investment communities to identify and implement important new networking technologies from January 2002 to April 2003. Prior to that position, Mr. Netravali was President of Bell
Labs as well as Lucent's Chief Technology Officer and Chief Network Architect from June 1999 to January 2002. Bell Labs serves as the research and development organization for Lucent
Technologies. Mr. Netravali is a director of Agere Systems Inc. Mr. Netravali is a member of the Compensation Committee. 

        John
T. Reed has been a director of the Company since March 2003. Mr. Reed is also a Director of and a member of the Audit Committee of Bridges Investment
Fund, Inc., a mutual fund and First National Bank of Omaha. Mr. Reed was Chairman of HMG Properties, the real estate investment banking joint venture of McCarthy Group, Inc. from
2000 until February 2005. Prior to that, he was Chairman of McCarthy & Co., the investment banking affiliate of McCarthy Group. Mr. Reed is also a director of McCarthy Group.
Prior to joining McCarthy Group in 1997, Mr. Reed spent 32 years with Arthur Andersen, LLP. Mr. Reed is the Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee and a member of the
Audit Committee. 

        Michael
B. Yanney has been a director of the Company since March 1998. He has served as Chairman of the Board of The Burlington Capital Group, LLC (formerly known as America First
Companies L.L.C.) for more than the last five years. Mr. Yanney also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of The Burlington Capital Group, LLC. Mr. Yanney is the
Chairman of the Compensation Committee and a member of the Executive Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee. 

43




 


        Dr. Albert
C. Yates has been a director of the Company since March 2005. Dr. Yates retired after 12 years as president of Colorado State University in Fort
Collins, Colorado in June 2003. He was also a chancellor of the Colorado State University System until October 2003, and is a former member of the board of the Federal Reserve Board of
Kansas City-Denver Branch and the board of
directors of First Interstate Bank and Molson Coors Brewing Company. He currently serves as a director of StarTek, Inc. Dr. Yates is a member of the Audit Committee. 

        Brady
Rafuse has been President and CEO of our European operations since January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Rafuse was Group Vice President and President of our European
operations from August 2001 to January 2006 and Senior Vice President of European Sales and Marketing from December 2000 to August 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Rafuse
served as Head of Commercial Operations for Concert, a joint venture between AT&T and British Telecom, from September 1999 to December 2000, and in a variety of positions with British
Telecom from 1987 until December 2000. His last position was as General Manager, Global Energy Sector which he held from August 1998 to September 1999 and prior to that he was
Deputy General Manager, Banking Sector from April 1997 to August 1998. 

        Sureel
A. Choksi has been Executive Vice President of Softswitch Services since January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi was Executive Vice President of Services from
November 2004 to January 2006, responsible for developing and managing Level 3's communications services. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi was Executive Vice President Softswitch
Services from January 2004 and Group Vice President Transport and Infrastructure from May 2003 until January 2004. Mr. Choksi was a Group Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company from July 2000 to May 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi was Group Vice President Corporate Development and Treasurer of the Company from February 2000
until August 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi served as Vice President and Treasurer of the Company from January 1999 to February 1, 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Choksi
was a Director of Finance at the Company from 1997 to 1998, an Associate at TeleSoft Management, LLC in 1997 and an Analyst at Gleacher & Company from 1995 to 1997. 

        Edward
F. McLaughlin has been Executive Vice President Global Operations since January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. McLaughlin was Senior Vice President, Network Operations at
WilTel for over three years (Oct 2002). Prior to that, Mr. McLaughlin was Vice President, Network Engineering and Planning, at WilTel from July 2000 to October 2002. From
1995 through July 2000, Mr. McLaughlin held a variety of telecom management positions with WorldCom and Williams Communications Group. 

        John
F. Waters, Jr. has been Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer since January 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Waters was Group Vice President and Chief Technology
Officer of the Company from February 2000 to January 2004. Prior to that, Mr. Waters was Vice President, Engineering of the Company from November 1997 until
February 1, 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Waters was an executive staff member of MCI Communications from 1994 to November 1997. 

        Donald
H. Gips has been Group Vice President Corporate Strategy since January 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Gips was Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing of the Company
from February 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Gips served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development from November 1998 to February 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Gips
served in the White House as Chief Domestic Policy Advisor to Vice President Gore from April 1997 to April 1998. Before working at the White House, Mr. Gips was at the Federal
Communications Commission as the International Bureau Chief and Director of Strategic Policy from January 1994 to April 1997. Prior to his government service, Mr. Gips was a
management consultant at McKinsey and Company. 

        Kevin
T. Hart has been Group Vice President Global Systems Development and Chief Information Officer since January 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Hart was Vice President of
Telecommunications, Media & Entertainment at Capgemini (formerly Ernst & Young), a management consulting firms in Dallas, Texas, for over nine years. In that role, he was
responsible for the overall growth and direction 

44




 


of
the organization's Communications Operations Support Systems, Billing/Business Support Systems and the Network Management Systems service offerings and delivery. Prior to joining Capgemini's
management consulting practice, he held the positions of Director of Strategic Planning at International Paper and Manager of Operations at SBC Communications. 


        Joseph
M. Howell, III has been Group Vice President Corporate Marketing since February 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Howell served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Marketing
from October 1997 to February 1, 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Howell was a Senior Vice President of MFS/WorldCom from 1993 to 1997. 

        Glenn
Russo has been Group Vice President since January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Russo was Senior Vice President Network & Internet Services from January 2005
to January 2006. From May 2003 to December 2004, he was Senior Vice President of Global Partner and Channel Development. From June 2001 to April 2003,
Mr. Russo was Senior Vice President Transport and Infrastructure Services and prior to that was Vice President of Global Fiber Services from January 2001 to May 2001.
Mr. Russo joined Level 3 in August of 2000 as Architect for a business redesign program. Prior to joining Level 3, Mr. Russo worked for ExxonMobil Chemical Company in various
leadership positions in Sales, Finance, Strategic Planning and information technology. 

        Christopher
P. Yost has been Group Vice President of Human Resources of the Company since June 2005. Mr. Yost joined Level 3 in November 1999 as Vice President,
Litigation and Employment Counsel in the company's legal department. Prior to joining Level 3, Mr. Yost was Director of Labor Relations for Albertson's, Inc., the national grocery store
chain. Before that, he was an associate at the law firm of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld in Washington, D.C. where he specialized in labor and employment law and litigation. 

        The
Board is divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III, each class consisting, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of
the total number of directors constituting the Board. As of December 31, 2005, the Class I Directors consist of Walter Scott, Jr., James Q. Crowe and Robert E. Julian, the
Class II Directors consist of Admiral James O. Ellis, Jr., Richard R. Jaros and Dr. Albert C. Yates, and the Class III Directors consist of Arun Netravali, John T. Reed and
Michael B. Yanney. The term of the Class I Directors will terminate on the date of the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders; the term of the Class II Directors will terminate on the date
of the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders; and the term of the Class III Directors will terminate on the date of the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of
stockholders, successors to the class of directors
whose term expires at that annual meeting will be elected for three-year terms. The Company's officers are elected annually to serve until each successor is elected and qualified or until
his death, resignation or removal. 

        We
believe that the members of the Audit Committee are independent within the meaning of the listing standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market. The Board has determined that Mr. Robert
E. Julian, Chairman of the Audit Committee, qualifies as a "financial expert" as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Board considered Mr. Julian's credentials and financial
background and found that he was qualified to serve as the "financial expert." 

Code of Ethics  

        We have adopted a code of ethics that complies with the standards mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The complete code of ethics is available on our
website at www.level3.com. At any time that the code of ethics is not available on our website, we will provide a copy upon written request made to
Investor Relations, Level 3 Communications, Inc., 1025 Eldorado Blvd., Broomfield, Colorado 80021. We caution you that any information that is included in our website is not part of this
10-K. If we amend the code of ethics, or grant any waiver from a provision of the code of ethics that applies to our executive officers or directors, we will publicly disclose such
amendment or waiver as required by 

45




 


applicable
law, including by posting such amendment or waiver on our website at www.level3.com or by filing a Form 8-K with the
Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC. 

SEC Filings  

        Our annual reports on Form 10-K, along with all other reports and amendments filed with or furnished to the SEC are publicly available free of
charge on the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We caution you that the information on
our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnishes to, the SEC. 

Section 16(a)—Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  

        Except as set forth below, to our knowledge, no person that was a director, executive officer or beneficial owner of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of
our common stock failed to timely file all reports required under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

        In
connection with the exercise of convertible OSOs, on one occasion as a result of a clerical error, a Form 4 reporting that exercise was not timely filed for Mr. Eric J.
Mortensen and in connection with the grant of restricted stock units to Mr. Keith Coogan, a Form 4 reporting one such grant was not timely filed. 

Employees  

        As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately 4,800 employees in the communications portion of our business and information services had approximately
1,200 employees, for a total of approximately 6,000 employees. We believe that our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain substantial numbers of qualified employees. 

<A
NAME="ck1142_item_1a._risk_factors"> 
 
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS        

Forward Looking Statements  

        We, or our representatives, from time to time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in writing, including without
limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, information contained in other filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, press releases and other public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences
with investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and conferences may include
forward-looking statements. We use words like "expects," "anticipates" or "believes" to identify forward-looking statements. 

        We
wish to ensure that all forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe
harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the
following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that this list of
important factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in rapidly changing businesses, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the impact, if
any, of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking
statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Further, we undertake no 

46




 

obligation
to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations. 

Communications Group  

We need to continue to increase the volume of traffic on our network or we will not generate profits  

        We must continue to increase the volume of Internet, data, voice and video transmissions on our network in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating
efficiencies and cost benefits of our Level 3 Network. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers and develop new large-volume customers, we may not be able to substantially
increase traffic on our Level 3 Network, which would adversely affect our ability to become profitable. 

Our VoIP services have only been sold for a limited period and there is no guarantee that these services will gain broad market acceptance  

        Although we have sold Softswitch based services since the late 1990's, we have been selling our Voice-over-IP (or VoIP) services for a
limited period of time. As a result, there are many difficulties that we may encounter, including regulatory hurdles and other problems that we may not anticipate. To date, we have not generated
significant revenue from the sale of our VoIP services, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in generating significant VoIP revenues. 

The success of our subscriber based VoIP services is dependent on the growth and public acceptance of VoIP telephony  

        The success of our subscriber based VoIP services is dependent upon future demand for VoIP telephony services. In order for the IP telephony market to continue to
grow, several things need to occur. Telephone and cable service providers must continue to invest in the deployment of high speed broadband networks to residential and commercial customers. VoIP
networks must continue to improve quality of service for real-time communications, managing effects such as packet jitter, packet loss, and unreliable bandwidth, so that
toll-quality service can be provided. VoIP telephony equipment and services must achieve a similar level of reliability that users of the public switched telephone network have come to
expect from their telephone service, including emergency calling features and capabilities. VoIP telephony service providers must offer cost and feature benefits to their customers that are sufficient
to cause the customers to switch away from traditional telephony service providers. If any or all of these factors fail to occur, our VoIP services business may not grow. 

The prices that we charge for our communications services have been decreasing, and we expect that they will continue to decrease over time and we may be unable to compensate
for this lost revenue  

        We expect to continue to experience decreasing prices for our communications services: 



•as
we and our competitors increase transmission capacity on existing and new networks;
•as
a result of our current agreements with customers which often contain volume based pricing or other contractually agreed upon decreases in prices during the term of the
agreement;
•through
technological advances or otherwise; and
•as
volume based pricing becomes more prevalent. 



        Accordingly,
our historical revenue is not indicative of future revenue based on comparable traffic volumes. As the prices for our communications services decrease for whatever reason,
if we are unable to offer additional services from which we can derive additional revenue or otherwise reduce our operating expenses, our operating results will decline and our business and financial
results will suffer. We also continue to expect, excluding the effects of acquisitions, managed modem related revenue to 

47




 

continue
to decline in the future primarily due to an increase in the number of subscribers migrating to broadband services, continued pricing pressures and declining customer obligations under
contractual arrangements. We experienced a significant decline in our digital subscriber line or DSL aggregation revenue during 2005, as a significant customer of this service terminated its customer
contract during 2005. 

Revenue under our agreement with SBC Services is expected to decline materially  

        As part of our acquisition of WilTel's communications business, we acquired a multi-year contract with SBC Services, Inc. We refer to this
contract as the SBC Master Services Agreement. Recently, SBC Services Inc. became a subsidiary of AT&T, Inc. and announced its intention to migrate the services provided by WilTel to the
merged SBC Services, Inc. and AT&T network. WilTel and SBC amended the SBC Master Services Agreement to run through 2009 and it provides a gross margin purchase commitment of
$335 million from December 2005 through the end of 2007, and $75 million from January 2008 through the end of 2009. Only purchases of on-net services count
toward satisfaction of this purchase commitment. Originating and terminating access charges paid to local phone companies are passed through to SBC in accordance with a formula that approximates cost.
Additionally, the SBC Master Services Agreement provides for the payment of $50 million from SBC if certain performance criteria are met by Level 3. As a result, we expect the revenue generated
by the SBC Master Services Agreement to decline materially in 2007. 

Failure to complete development, testing and introduction of new services, including VoIP services, could affect our ability to compete in the industry  

        We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our Level 3 Network. These new services are intended to allow us
to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new
technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on the conclusion of contract
negotiations with vendors and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, our new service offerings, including new VoIP services, may not be widely accepted by our customers. If
our new service offerings are not widely
accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service offerings and be required to impair any assets or information technology used to develop or offer those services. If we are not able to
successfully complete the development and introduction of new services, including new VoIP services, in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. 

Our communications revenue is concentrated in a limited number of customers  


        A significant portion of our communications revenue is concentrated among a limited number of customers. If we lost one or more of these major customers, or if
one or more major customers significantly decreased orders for our services, our communications business would be materially and adversely affected. Revenue from our two largest communications
customers, Time Warner, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and Verizon Communications, Inc. and its affiliates, represented approximately 18% and 14% of Level 3's communications revenue for
2005, respectively. America Online, our largest managed modem customer and an affiliate of Time Warner, Inc., reduced the number of managed modem ports it purchases from us by approximately 30%
during 2005. Our future communications operating results will depend on the success of these customers and other customers and our success in selling services to them. If we were to lose a significant
portion of our communications revenue from either America Online or Verizon, we would not be able to replace this revenue in the short term and our operating losses would increase, which increase may
be significant. 

48




 


        In
connection with the acquisition of WilTel in December 2005, we acquired a large customer contract between WilTel and SBC Communications, a subsidiary of AT&T. It is anticipated
that the revenue generated by this contract during 2006 will cause SBC Communications to become our largest customer based on revenue. We also expect that the revenue generated under this contract
will decline materially over time as SBC Communications migrates its traffic from our Level 3 Network to the network that was acquired by SBC Communications from the former AT&T. 

During our communications business operating history, we have generated substantial losses, which we expect to continue  

        The development of our communications business required, and may continue to require, significant expenditures. These expenditures could result in substantial
negative cash flow from operating activities and substantial net losses for the near future. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred a loss from continuing operations of
approximately $687 million. We expect to continue to experience losses, and may not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability in the future. Continued operating losses could limit
our ability to obtain the cash needed to expand our network, make interest and principal payments on our debt or fund other business needs. We will need to continue to expand
and adapt our network in order to remain competitive, which may require significant additional funding. During 2005, we deployed a new generation of optical transmission equipment. Additional
expansion and adaptations of our network's electronic and software components will be necessary in order to respond to: 



•growing
number of customers;
•the
development and launching of new services;
•increased
demands by customers to transmit larger amounts of data;
•changes
in customers' service requirements;
•technological
advances by competitors; and
•governmental
regulations. 


        Future
expansion or adaptation of our network will require substantial additional financial, operational and managerial resources, which may not be available at the time. If we are
unable to expand or adapt our network to respond to these developments on a timely basis and at a commercially reasonable cost, our business will be materially adversely affected. 

Our need to obtain additional capacity for our network from other providers increases our costs  

        We continue in some part to lease telecommunications capacity and obtain rights to use dark fiber from both long distance and local telecommunications carriers in
order to extend the scope of our network both in the United States and Europe. Any failure by companies leasing capacity to us to provide timely service to us would adversely affect our ability to
serve our customers or increase the costs of doing so. Some of our agreements with other providers require the payment of amounts for services whether or not those services are used. We enter into
interconnection agreements with many domestic and foreign local telephone companies, but we are not always able to do so on favorable terms. Costs of obtaining local service from other carriers
comprise a significant proportion of the operating expenses of long distance carriers. Similarly, a large proportion of the costs of providing international service consist of payments to other
carriers. Changes in regulation, particularly the regulation of local and international telecommunication carriers, could indirectly, but significantly, affect our competitive position. These changes
could increase or decrease the costs of providing our services. 

49




 


Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to implement customer orders and to provide and bill for services  


        Our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems and in particular the development of these systems for use by
customers who intend to use our services in their own service offering. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise and support from third-party vendors. Business
support systems are needed for: 



•implementing
customer orders for services;
•provisioning,
installing and delivering these services; and
•monthly
billing for these services. 



        Because
our business provides for continued rapid growth in the number and volume of services offered, there is a need to continue to develop these business support systems on a schedule
sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective business support systems could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans. 

Our growth may depend upon our successful integration of acquired businesses  

        The integration of acquired businesses, including WilTel Communications, involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: 



•demands
on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition;
•the
diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations;
•higher
integration costs than anticipated;
•failure
to achieve expected synergies and costs savings;
•difficulties
in the assimilation and retention of employees;
•difficulties
in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and
•difficulties
in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform
standards, controls,
including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and policies. 


        If
we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses or operations, we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service
offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations, we may not be
able to achieve the benefits that we hope to achieve as a result of the acquisition. 

50






<A
NAME="page_cm1142_1_51">   We may not be able to integrate WilTel operations with our business efficiently  

        The completion of our acquisition of WilTel creates risks associated with the integration of WilTel's operations with ours. Some integration risks include: 



•difficulties
assimilating the personnel and operations of WilTel;
•loss
of key personnel of WilTel;
•loss
of customers post-integration;
•disruption
of our ongoing business and additional burdens on our management team;
•higher
integration costs than anticipated;
•failure
to achieve expected synergies and costs savings;
•difficulties
in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and
•difficulties
in ensuring accurate and timely reporting of financial information. 


        We
cannot be certain that we will realize the benefits from the WilTel acquisition that we anticipate, or that we will be able to integrate WilTel's operations successfully. If we fail
to integrate the operations of WilTel efficiently, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects. 


We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect us  

        We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified
managerial, professional and technical personnel. We have experienced significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. 

        As
a result of this significant competition, we may experience a shortage of qualified personnel. Our businesses are managed by a small number of key executive officers, particularly
James Q. Crowe, Chief Executive Officer, Kevin J. O'Hara, President and Chief Operating Officer and Charles C. Miller, III, Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President. The loss of any of these key
executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. 

We must obtain and maintain permits and rights-of-way to operate our network  

        If we are unable, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, to obtain and maintain the franchises, permits and rights needed to expand and operate our network,
our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cancellation or non-renewal of the franchises, permits or rights that are obtained could materially adversely affect
us. Our communications operating subsidiary is a defendant in several lawsuits that the plaintiffs have sought to have certified as class actions that, among other things, challenge that subsidiary's
use of rights of way. It is likely that additional suits challenging use of our rights of way will occur and that those plaintiffs also will seek class certification. The outcome of this litigation
may increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results. 

Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and costs  

        We are dependent on third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components that are integrated into our
network. If any of these relationships is terminated or a supplier fails to provide reliable services or equipment and we are unable to reach suitable alternative arrangements quickly, we may
experience significant additional costs. If that happens, we could be materially adversely affected. 

51




 


Rapid technological changes can lead to further competition  

        The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. In addition, the introduction of new services or technologies, as well as
the further development of existing services and technologies may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those that we provide. As a result, our most significant
competitors in the future may be new entrants to the communications and information services industries. These new entrants may not be burdened by an installed base of outdated equipment. Future
success depends, in part, on the ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. Technological changes and the resulting competition could have a material adverse effect
on us. 

Increased industry capacity and other factors could lead to lower prices for our services  


        Additional network capacity available from our competitors may cause significant decreases in the prices for the services that we offer. Prices may also decline
due to capacity increases resulting from technological advances and strategic acquisitions. Increased competition has already led to a decline in rates charged for various telecommunications services. 

We are subject to significant regulation that could change in an adverse manner  

        Communications services are subject to significant regulation at the federal, state, local and international levels. These regulations affect us and our existing
and potential competitors. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals (including approvals relating to acquisitions or financing
activities), completing interconnection agreements with incumbent local exchange carriers or the enactment of new and adverse regulations or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect
on us. In addition, future legislative, judicial and regulatory agency actions could have a material adverse effect on us. 

        Federal
legislation provides for a significant deregulation of the U.S. telecommunications industry, including the local exchange, long distance and cable television industries. This
legislation remains subject to judicial review and additional Federal Communications Commission or FCC rulemaking. As a result, we cannot predict the legislation's effect on our future operations.
Many regulatory actions are under way or are being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding important items. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

        States
also often require prior approvals or notifications for certain transfers of assets, customers or ownership of certificated carriers and for issuances by certified carriers of
equity or debt. 

We may lose customers if we experience system failures that significantly disrupt the availability and quality of the services that we provide  

        Our operations depend on our ability to avoid and mitigate any interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers. Interruptions in service or performance
problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new ones. In addition, because many of our services are
critical to the businesses of many of our customers, any significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other loss to customers. Although we attempt to disclaim liability in our
service agreements, a court might not enforce a limitation on liability, which could expose us to financial loss. In addition, we often provide our customers with guaranteed service level commitments.
If we are unable to meet these guaranteed service level commitments as a result of service interruptions, we may be obligated to provide credits, generally in the form of free service for a short
period of time, to our customers, which could negatively affect our operating results. 

52




 


        The
failure of any equipment or facility on our network, including the network operations control center and network data storage locations, could result in the interruption of customer
service until necessary repairs are effected or replacement equipment is installed. Network failures, delays and errors could also result from natural disasters, terrorist acts, power losses, security
breaches and computer viruses. These failures, faults or errors could cause delays, service interruptions, expose us to customer liability or require expensive modifications that could significantly
hurt our business. 

Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide Internet protocol voice services  

        If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services were held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that
technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable
terms, could force us to cease using the technology and offering products and services incorporating the technology. 

        To
the extent that we are subject to litigation regarding the ownership of our intellectual property, this litigation could: 



•be
time-consuming and expensive;
•divert
attention and resources away from our daily business;
•impede
or prevent delivery of our products and services; and
•require
us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. 


        Parties
making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to
pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all.
The defense of any lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, and could also result in damages, license fees, royalty
payments and restrictions on our ability to provide our services, any of which could harm our business. 

Canadian law currently does not permit us to offer directly services in Canada  

        Ownership of facilities that originate or terminate traffic in Canada is currently limited to Canadian carriers. This restriction hinders our entry into the
Canadian market unless appropriate arrangements can be made to address it. 

Potential regulation of Internet service providers in the United States could adversely affect our operations  


        The FCC has to date treated Internet service providers as enhanced service providers. In addition, Congress has to date not sought to heavily regulate the
provision of IP-based services. Both Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that involve greater regulation of IP-based service providers. Depending on the content and
scope of any regulations, the imposition of such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and the profitability of our services. 

The communications and information services industries are highly competitive with participants that have greater resources and a greater number of existing customers  


        The communications and information services industries are highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have financial, personnel, marketing
and other resources significantly 

53




 


greater
than us. Many of these competitors have the added competitive advantage of a larger existing customer base. In addition, significant new competitors could arise as a result of: 



•the
recent increased consolidation in the industry led by AT&T and Verizon;
•allowing
foreign carriers to compete in the U.S. market;
•further
technological advances; and
•further
deregulation and other regulatory initiatives. 


        If
we are unable to compete successfully, our business could be significantly hurt. 


We may be unable to successfully identify, manage and assimilate future acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances, which could adversely affect our results of
operations  

        We continually evaluate potential investments and strategic opportunities to expand our network, enhance connectivity and add traffic to the network. In the
future, we may seek additional investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements, which may expose us to risks such as: 



•the
difficulty of identifying appropriate investments, strategic allies or opportunities;
•the
possibility that senior management may be required to spend considerable time negotiating agreements and monitoring these arrangements;
•the
possibility that definitive agreements will not be finalized;
•potential
regulatory issues applicable to the telecommunications business;
•the
loss or reduction in value of the capital investment;
•the
inability of management to capitalize on the opportunities presented by these arrangements; and
•the
possibility of insolvency of a strategic ally. 


        There
can be no assurance that we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered with these investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements. 


Information Services  

Software Spectrum relies on financial incentives, credit terms, such as rebates, volume purchase discounts, marketing development funds and prompt-payment discounts from
software publishers  

        As part of Software Spectrum's supply agreements with certain publishers and distributors, Software Spectrum receives substantial financial incentives and credit
terms such as rebates, volume purchase discounts, marketing development funds and prompt-payment discounts. Software Spectrum has little or no input into either the form of financial incentives or the
targets required to achieve them. Some financial incentives are based on specific market segments and products. Other financial incentives are based on Software Spectrum's volume or growth rate of
revenue or purchases and Software Spectrum's participation in marketing programs. A decrease in the volume or growth rate of Software Spectrum's revenue or purchases could have a material adverse
effect on the amount of incentives offered to Software Spectrum by its publishers. Additionally, in the future, if the Software Spectrum business model fails to align with the objectives established
for these incentives or if software publishers further change, reduce or discontinue these incentives, Software Spectrum's business and our consolidated financial results could be materially adversely
affected. 

54




 


As publishers change their distribution model, Software Spectrum increasingly relies on sales agency fees  

        Since 2001, Microsoft and other publishers increasingly have used a sales agency model for distribution of their products, under which Software Spectrum
recognizes as revenue an agency fee that it receives from the publisher, as opposed to the final sales price of the software. Software Spectrum recorded approximately $74 million,
$54 million and $35 million of revenue attributable to contracts under the sales agency model in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Based on Software Spectrum's review of relevant
software publisher sales data, Software Spectrum estimates that the final sales price of the software sold under these arrangements was $1.235 billion, $975 million and
$661 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Typically, Software Spectrum does not earn rebates from publishers under the sales agency model. To date, Software Spectrum has not been
materially adversely affected by the impact of the sales agency model on its revenues, because Software Spectrum has experienced a corresponding decline in its cost of revenue. As a result, Software
Spectrum does not expect the lack of financial incentives under the sales agency model to have a meaningful effect on its business in the near future. However, if the economics concerning the sales
agency model change, this could have a material adverse effect on Software Spectrum's business, results of operations and financial condition and on our consolidated financial results. 


        In
2005, Microsoft notified Software Spectrum of proposed changes to Microsoft's sales agency program which, once finalized by Microsoft, will take effect for customer contracts entered
into after July 1, 2006. All contracts completed prior to July 1, 2006, will be grandfathered under the existing sales agency program. Under the proposed revised program for agency type
sales as currently drafted, the number of performance metrics against which Software Spectrum is measured and the standard of performance on those metrics are expected to increase. Based on a
preliminary evaluation of Microsoft's proposed program changes, Software Spectrum expects that the amount of agency fees it earns from Microsoft will be reduced over the three-year period
in which it is implemented. Due to the grandfathering of existing sales agency program sales, however, Software Spectrum anticipates that the program changes will not have a significant effect on
Software Spectrum's results of operation or financial position in 2006. Microsoft has yet to finalize the proposed changes, and thus Software Spectrum is not able to definitively determine the effects
of Microsoft's proposed changes on its results of operations and financial position after July 1, 2006. 

Software Spectrum is very dependent on a small number of vendors  

        A large percentage of Software Spectrum's sales is represented by business software products from a small number of publishers. For 2005, approximately 87% of
Software Spectrum's revenue represented products purchased from its 10 largest publishers. For 2005, the top 10 software titles Software Spectrum sold represented approximately 54% of its sales. For
2005, products from Microsoft and IBM accounted for approximately 59% and 10% of revenue, respectively. For 2004, products from Microsoft and IBM accounted for approximately 58% and 10% of revenue,
respectively. Most of Software Spectrum's contracts with publishers are non-exclusive and terminable by either party, without cause, upon 30 to 60 days notice. Additionally,
Software Spectrum's contracts with its major publishers are generally for one- or two-year terms, and the majority of these contracts contain no provision for automatic
renewal. A loss of or significant change in Software Spectrum's relationship with these publishers could have a material adverse effect on Software Spectrum's business and its consolidated financial
results. Although Software Spectrum believes that it could obtain these software products from distribution partners, Software Spectrum may not be able to obtain such products or may only be able to
obtain such products on terms that could materially adversely affect its financial results. In addition, Software Spectrum can not be sure that any financial or other difficulties of such publishers
will not have a material adverse effect on its business. 

55




 


Software Spectrum's business is dependent on certain key distributors  


        Although Software Spectrum obtains the majority of its revenue from publishers, it also relies on distributors for sales of products, such as products from IBM. A
loss of or significant change in Software Spectrum's relationships with these distributors could have a material adverse effect on its business. For example, Software Spectrum cannot be sure that
these distributors will continue to provide it with credit terms and financial incentives, such as rebates, volume purchase discounts and prompt-payment discounts. Although Software Spectrum believes
that the software products it obtains through these distributors would be available from other parties, Software Spectrum may not be able to obtain such products or may only be able to obtain such
products on terms that could materially adversely affect its financial results. In addition, Software Spectrum cannot be sure that any financial or other difficulties of these distributors will not
have a material adverse effect on its business. 

Software Spectrum's business is subject to seasonal changes in demand and resulting sales activities  

        Software Spectrum's business is subject to seasonal change. In particular, revenue and profits in the United States, Canada and Europe are typically lower in the
first and third quarters due to lower levels
of IT purchases during those times. As a result, Software Spectrum's quarterly results may be materially affected during those periods. In addition, periods of higher sales activities during certain
quarters may require a greater use of working capital to fund Software Spectrum's business. During these periods, the increased working capital requirements could temporarily increase Software
Spectrum's leverage and liquidity needs and expose it to greater financial risk during these periods. Due to these seasonal changes, the operating results for any three-month period are not
necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent fiscal quarter or for a full fiscal year. 

Software Spectrum's business is sensitive to general economic conditions and conditions in the software and IT industries  

        Software Spectrum's business is sensitive to the spending patterns of its customers, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic and business conditions, the
condition of the IT industry, shifts in demand for or availability of software and the introduction of new software products or upgrades. In particular, Software Spectrum's business is sensitive to
the North American and Western European economic environments. In the past, the software industry in general has felt the effects of an economic slowdown in the United States and Europe and the
resulting decrease in IT spending. For example, according to IDC, from 2001 to 2003, software end user spending in North America declined at a CAGR of 0.7%. Further, sales to large corporations have
been important to Software Spectrum's results, and its future results are dependent on its continued success with such customers. Any change in demand for products by these large corporations could
have a material adverse effect on Software Spectrum's revenue. 

Software Spectrum's international operations are sensitive to currency risks  

        In 2005, approximately 43% of Software Spectrum's total revenue was generated by sales outside the United States. Software Spectrum's international revenue, cost
of revenue and operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, principally the Euro and the Pound Sterling. Software Spectrum's international operations are sensitive to currency exchange
risks. Software Spectrum presently has currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S.
dollar may adversely affect Software Spectrum's operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it will become more expensive in terms of U.S. dollars
to pay expenses with foreign currencies. In addition, currency devaluation against the U.S. dollar can result in a loss to Software Spectrum if it holds deposits of that currency. Software Spectrum
currently does not conduct any hedging activities. In addition, some currencies are subject to limitations on conversion in to other 

56




 


currencies,
which can limit Software Spectrum's ability to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. Software Spectrum cannot predict the impact of future exchange-rate
fluctuations on its business and operating results. 

Software Spectrum is exposed to the risks of a global market  

        Software Spectrum has U.S., European and Asian-Pacific operation centers as well as sales offices in Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong,
Italy, the Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. In those regions in which it does not have a physical presence, such as Japan, China, India and Latin
America, Software Spectrum serves its customers through strategic relationships. Software Spectrum also will continue to evaluate opportunities to open new international sales offices or enter into
strategic relationships to serve international customers. Software Spectrum's future growth and success depend on its continued growth and success in international markets. 

        In
addition, until a payment history is established over time with customers in a new region, the likelihood of collecting receivables generated by such operations, on a timely basis or
at all, could be less than Software Spectrum's expectations. As a result, there is a greater risk that reserves set with respect to the collection of such receivables may be inadequate. Furthermore,
changes in policies and/or laws of the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations or the expropriation of private
enterprises could reduce the anticipated benefits of Software Spectrum's international operations. Any actions by countries in which Software Spectrum conducts business to reverse policies that
encourage foreign trade could adversely affect its business. 

Software Spectrum operates in a highly-competitive business environment and is subject to significant price competition  

        The desktop technology marketplace is competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, product availability, speed of delivery, quality and breadth of
offerings, ability to tailor specific solutions to meet customer needs and credit availability. Software Spectrum faces competition from a wide variety of sources, including software publishers,
software and hardware direct marketers, OEMs and large system integrators. Many competitors have substantially greater financial resources than Software Spectrum does. Some of Software
Spectrum's competitors may provide a broader range of services, such as extending long-term capital financing or offering bundled hardware and software solutions. Companies that compete in
this market, including Software Spectrum, are characterized by low gross and operating margins. Consequently, Software Spectrum's profitability is highly dependent upon maintaining scale and effective
cost and management controls. 


Software Spectrum's new Media Plane™ platform  

        Software Spectrum has made significant investments in research, development and marketing for its new Media Plane™ software. Significant revenue from
this new product investment may not be achieved for a number of years, if at all. 

Software Spectrum may not succeed in protecting its intellectual property  

        To protect its intellectual property, Software Spectrum relies upon copyright and trademark laws, unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets as
well as confidentiality, invention assignment, non-competition and non-solicitation agreements. There can be no assurance that these measures will afford sufficient protection
of Software Spectrum's intellectual property. Despite its efforts, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use Software Spectrum's proprietary information without
authorization or otherwise infringe on its intellectual property rights. The 

57




 


disclosure
of Software Spectrum's trade secrets could impair Software Spectrum's competitive position and could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial
condition and future growth prospects. 

        Additionally,
Software Spectrum's patent application for its Media Plane™ software is currently pending. There can be no assurance that Software Spectrum will obtain a patent
for this technology or that any patent that it receives will provide protection of commercial significance. There can also be no assurance that competitors will not challenge, invalidate or avoid the
application of this or any other future patents that Software Spectrum may receive or license. Software Spectrum's competitors may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and
obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with its ability to make and sell its Media Plane™ software both in the United States and abroad. There can be no assurance
that any patent rights will prevent Software Spectrum's competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionality equivalent to its Media Plane™ software. 

Software Spectrum may incur substantial costs defending or protecting against third-party claims  

        In connection with the enforcement of Software Spectrum's own intellectual property rights or in connection with disputes relating to the validity or alleged
infringement of third-party rights, including
but not limited to patent rights, Software Spectrum may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Other than in connection with the Media Plane™
software, Software Spectrum generally does not hold title to the software it sells or licenses and therefore believes that any such claims made in connection with any defects or errors in the software
would be the responsibility of the publisher. However, any such claims could result in negative publicity or harm to Software Spectrum's reputation. In addition, Software Spectrum may face warranty
and/or infringement claims related to its Media Plane™ software. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to business operations by
diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Furthermore, Software Spectrum may not prevail in any future litigation and/or disputes. Adverse decisions in any
litigation or disputes could have negative results, including subjecting us to significant liabilities, requiring Software Spectrum to seek licenses from others, preventing it from licensing certain
of its products or causing severe disruptions to its operations or the markets in which it competes, any one of which could seriously harm Software Spectrum's business. 

Other Operations  

Environmental liabilities from our historical operations could be material  

        Our operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, human health and safety. These laws and
regulations include those concerning the use and management of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes. We have made and will continue to make significant expenditures relating
to our environmental compliance obligations. We may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements. 

        In
connection with certain historical operations, we have responded to or been notified of potential environmental liability at approximately 149 properties. We are engaged in addressing
or have liquidated 74 of those properties. Of the remaining 58 sites, we have formal commitments or other potential future costs at 35 sites. There are an additional 11 sites with minimal future costs
and 12 with unknown future costs. We could be held liable, jointly and severally, and without regard to fault, for such investigation and remediation. The discovery of additional environmental
liabilities related to historical operations or changes in existing environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. 

58




 


Potential liabilities and claims arising from coal operations could be significant  


        Our coal operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations that impose stringent operational, maintenance, financial assurance, environmental compliance,
reclamation, restoration and closure requirements. 

        These
requirements include those governing air and water emissions, waste disposal, worker health and safety, benefits for current and retired coal miners, and other general permitting
and licensing requirements. We may not at all times be in compliance with all of these requirements. Liabilities or claims associated with this non-compliance could require us to incur
material costs or suspend production. Mine reclamation costs that exceed reserves for these matters also could require us to incur material costs. 

General  

If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of these agreements, and this could result in an
acceleration of payment of funds that have been borrowed  

        If we were unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in any of our debt agreements, there would be a default under the terms of those agreements. As a
result, borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, there can
be no assurance that we would be able to make necessary payments to the lenders or that it would be able to find alternative financing. Even if we were able to obtain alternative financing, there can
be no assurance that it would be on terms that are acceptable. 

We have substantial debt, which may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage  

        Our substantial debt may have important consequences, including the following: 



•the
ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments and capital or other expenditure could be impaired or financing may not be
available on acceptable terms;
•a
substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to make principal and interest payments on outstanding debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for
operations and future business opportunities;
•a
substantial decrease in cash flows from operating activities or an increase in expenses could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements and force modifications
to operations;
•we
have more debt than certain of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; and
•substantial
debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. 


        We
had substantial deficiencies of earnings to cover fixed charges of approximately $611 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, $384 million for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, $689 million for the fiscal year 2003, $918 million for the fiscal year 2002 and $4,326 million for the fiscal year 2001. 

59






<A
NAME="page_co1142_1_60">  



We may not be able to repay our existing debt; failure to do so or refinance the debt could prevent us from implementing our strategy and realizing anticipated profits  

        If we were unable to refinance our debt or to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, our ability to operate our business would be impaired. As of
December 31, 2005, we had an aggregate of approximately $6.02 billion of long-term debt on a consolidated basis, including current maturities, and approximately
$476 million of stockholders' deficit. Our ability to make interest and principal payments on our debt and borrow additional funds on favorable terms depends on the future performance of the
business. If we do not have enough cash flow in the future to make interest or principal payments on our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a part of our debt or to raise additional capital.
We cannot assure that we will be able to refinance our debt or raise additional capital on acceptable terms. 

Restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements limit our ability to conduct our business and could prevent us from obtaining needed funds in the future  

        Our debt and financing arrangements contain a number of significant limitations that restrict our ability to, among other things: 



•borrow
additional money or issue guarantees;
•pay
dividends or other distributions to stockholders;
•make
investments;
•create
liens on assets;
•sell
assets;
•enter
into sale-leaseback transactions;
•enter
into transactions with affiliates; and
•engage
in mergers or consolidations. 


If certain transactions occur with respect to our capital stock, we may be unable to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes  

        As of December 31, 2005, Level 3 had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $5.9 billion for federal income tax purposes. If certain
transactions occur with respect to Level 3's capital stock that result in a cumulative ownership change of more than 50 percentage points by 5-percent shareholders over a
three-year period as determined under rules prescribed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and applicable regulations, annual limitations would be imposed with respect to the Company's
ability to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain current deductions against any taxable income Level 3 achieves in future periods. Level 3 has entered into transactions over the
last three years resulting in significant cumulative changes in the ownership of its capital stock. Additional transactions could cause the Company to incur a 50 percentage point
ownership change by 5-percent shareholders and, if the Company triggers the above-noted Internal Revenue Code imposed limitations, prevent it from fully utilizing net operating loss
carryforwards and certain current deductions to reduce income taxes. The Company does not believe its net operating loss carryforwards will be limited in 2006 or thereafter, based on information
available at the time of this filing. 

Increased scrutiny of financial disclosure, particularly in the telecommunications industry in which we operate, could adversely affect investor confidence, and any restatement
of earnings could increase litigation risks and limit our ability to access the capital markets  

        Congress, the SEC, other regulatory authorities and the media are intensely scrutinizing a number of financial reporting issues and practices. Although all
businesses face uncertainty with respect to how 

60




 


the
U.S. financial disclosure regime may be impacted by this process, particular attention has been focused recently on the telecommunications industry and companies' interpretations of generally
accepted accounting principles. 

        If
we were required to restate our financial statements as a result of a determination that we had incorrectly applied generally accepted accounting principles, that restatement could
adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets or the trading price of our securities. The recent scrutiny regarding financial reporting has also resulted in an increase in litigation in
the telecommunications industry. There can be no assurance that any such litigation against us would not materially adversely affect our business or the trading price of our securities. 

Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect the financial markets and our business  

        Since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and subsequent events, there has been considerable uncertainty in world financial markets. The full effect
on the financial markets of these events, as well as concerns about future terrorist attacks, is not yet known. They could, however, adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on terms
acceptable to us, or at all. 

        There
can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly affect our physical
facilities or those of our customers. These events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets and economy. Any
of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our business. 

Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect the business  


        We have operations and investments outside of the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries, that expose us to
risks inherent in international operations. These include: 



•general
economic, social and political conditions;
•the
difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;
•tax
rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S.;
•foreign
currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments;
•foreign
earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;
•difficulties
and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance,
including loss of licenses and monetary fines;
•difficulties
in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and
•changes
in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. 

61




 





Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and by-laws could limit the share price and delay a change of management  


        Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult or even prevent a third party from acquiring us
without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. These provisions, among other things: 



•divide
the board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected in staggered three-year terms;
•prohibit
stockholder action by written consent in place of a meeting;
•limit
the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; limit the right of stockholders to present proposals or nominate directors for election at annual
meetings of stockholders; and
•authorize
the board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series without any action on the part of stockholders. 


        In
addition, the terms of most of our long term debt require that upon a "change of control" as defined in the agreements that contain the terms and conditions of the long term debt
require that we make an offer to purchase the outstanding long term debt at either 100% or 101% of the aggregate principal amount of that long term debt. 


        These
provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and significantly impede the ability of the holders of our
common stock to change management. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. 

If a large number of our shares of common stock are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise
future capital  

        We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock
could drop significantly if certain large holders of our common stock sell all or a significant portion of their shares of our common stock or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them
other than in an orderly manner. In addition, these sales could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common stock. 

The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of
factors  

        The market price of our common stock has been subject to volatility and, in the future, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a
variety of factors, including: 



•the
depth and liquidity of the trading market for our common stock;
•quarterly
variations in actual or anticipated operating results;
•changes
in estimated earnings by securities analysts;
•market
conditions in the communications and information services industries;
•announcement
and performance by competitors;
•regulatory
actions; and
•general
economic conditions. 

62




 





        In
addition, in recent months the stock market generally has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Those market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect
on the market price or liquidity of our common stock. 

<A
NAME="co1142_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments."> 
 
ITEM 1B