Item 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors in
    addition to the other information included in this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.
    Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business,
    operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely
    affect the value of an investment in our common stock.


 



    Economic
    downturns and disruptions in financial markets can adversely
    affect our business and results of operations.


 


    Our results of operations can be materially affected by adverse
    conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic
    conditions generally. Economic downturns in the businesses and
    geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially
    reduce demand for our products and result in decreased sales
    volumes. Recessionary environments adversely affect our business
    because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from
    our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive
    and housing industries specifically.


 


    Moreover, many of our customers and suppliers rely on access to
    credit to adequately fund their operations. Disruptions in
    financial markets and economic slowdown can adversely impact the
    ability of our customers to finance the purchase of our products
    as well as the creditworthiness of those customers. These same
    factors may also impact the ability and willingness of suppliers
    to provide us with raw materials for our business.


 



    The
    cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we
    participate may cause significant fluctuations in our operating
    results.


 


    Our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile
    nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining
    industries. Our future operating results are expected to
    continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. The
    chemical and refining industries historically have experienced
    alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and
    profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess
    capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity
    utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins.


 


    In addition to changes in the supply and demand for products,
    changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions
    can cause volatility. These factors result in significant
    fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and
    over business cycles.


 


    In addition, new capacity additions, especially in Asia and the
    Middle East, are expected to lead to a period of oversupply and
    lower profitability. The timing and extent of any changes to
    currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain and supply
    and demand may be unbalanced at any time. As a consequence, we
    are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of
    future industry cycles or their effect on our business,
    financial condition or results of operations. We can give no
    assurances as to any predictions we may make with respect to the
    timing, extent or duration of future industry cycles.




    
    31



Table of Contents






    Costs
    and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result
    in increased operating expenses.


 


    The costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial
    portion of our operating expenses. Energy costs generally follow
    price trends of crude oil and natural gas. These price trends
    may be highly volatile and cyclical. In the past, raw material
    and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that
    adversely affected our business segments’ results of
    operations. Moreover, fluctuations in currency exchange rates
    can add to this volatility.


 


    We are not always able to pass raw material and energy cost
    increases on to our customers. When we do have the ability to
    pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so
    quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of
    operations.


 


    Cost increases also may increase working capital needs, which
    could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. Even if we increase
    our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy
    costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce
    their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an
    adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition,
    producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the
    Middle East, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and
    NGLs. Competition from producers in these regions may cause us
    to reduce exports from North America and Europe. Any such
    reductions may increase competition for product sales within
    North America and Europe, which can result in lower margins in
    those regions. Additionally, there are a limited number of
    suppliers for some of our raw materials and utilities and, in
    some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular
    geographic region in which a facility is located.


 


    It is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a
    facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities,
    such as steam, electricity and gas. Having a sole or limited
    number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power,
    particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. Any new
    supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable
    as those contained in our current supply agreements.


 


    If our raw material or utility supplies were disrupted, our
    businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative
    supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct
    negative impact on plant operations. For example, hurricanes
    have in the past negatively affected crude oil and natural gas
    supplies, as well as supplies of other raw materials, utilities
    (such as electricity and steam), and industrial gases,
    contributing to increases in operating costs and, in some cases,
    disrupting production. In addition, hurricane-related disruption
    of vessel, barge, rail, truck and pipeline traffic in the
    U.S. Gulf Coast area would negatively affect shipments of
    raw materials and product.


 


    In addition, with increased volatility in raw material costs,
    our suppliers could impose more onerous terms on us, resulting
    in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital
    requirements.


 



    We
    sell products in highly competitive global markets and face
    significant price pressures.


 


    We sell our products in highly competitive global markets. Due
    to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in
    these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser
    extent, on product performance, product quality, product
    deliverability, reliability of supply and customer service.
    Generally, we are not able to protect our market position for
    these products by product differentiation and may not be able to
    pass on cost increases to our customers.


 


    In addition, we face increased competition from companies that
    may have greater financial resources and different cost
    structures or strategic goals than us. These include large
    integrated oil companies (many of which also have chemical
    businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that
    receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce
    certain products in a specified geographic region. Increased
    competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and
    refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product
    sales prices in response to raw material and other cost
    increases, or could cause us to reduce product sales prices to
    compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability.
    Competitors that have greater financial resources than us may be
    able to invest significant capital into their businesses,
    including expenditures for research and development.




    
    32



Table of Contents





    In addition, specialty products we produce may become
    commoditized over time. Increased competition could result in
    lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative
    impact on our results of operations.


 



    Our
    ability to source raw materials, including crude oil, may be
    adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances
    or other governmental actions.


 


    We obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials
    from sources in North Africa, the Middle East, and South America
    that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we
    conduct business, such as Europe or the US.


 


    Recently, increased incidents of civil unrest, including
    demonstrations which have been marked by violence, have occurred
    in some countries in North Africa and the Middle East. Some
    political regimes in these countries are threatened or have
    changed as a result of such unrest. Political instability and
    civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve
    other areas. Such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in
    intensity, could lead to civil wars, regional conflict, or
    regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to
    countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as
    Europe, the US, or their respective allies.


 


    We source a large portion of our crude oil from Venezuela. From
    time to time in the past, the Venezuelan national oil company,
    PDVSA, has declared itself in a force majeure situation and
    reduced deliveries of crude oil purportedly based on announced
    OPEC production cuts. It is impossible to predict how possible
    changes in governmental policies may affect our sourcing. Any
    significant reduction in Venezuelan crude oil supplies could
    negatively impact our ability to procure crude oil, from
    Venezuela or other sources, on economically advantageous terms.
    Political instability, civil disturbances and actions by
    governments in North Africa, the Middle East or South America
    are likely to substantially increase the price and decrease the
    supply of feedstocks necessary for our operations, which will
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.


 



    Interruptions
    of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or
    lower operating results.


 


    We own and operate large-scale facilities. Our operating results
    are dependent on the continued operation of our various
    production facilities and the ability to complete construction
    and maintenance projects on schedule. Interruptions at our
    facilities may materially reduce the productivity and
    profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our
    business as a whole, during and after the period of such
    operational difficulties. In the past, we had to shut down
    plants on the U.S. Gulf Coast, including the temporary
    shutdown of the Houston Refinery, as a result of hurricanes
    striking the Texas coast.


 


    In addition, because the Houston Refinery is our only North
    American refining operation, an outage at the refinery could
    have a particularly negative impact on our operating results.
    Unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may
    have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact
    of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the
    ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the U.S.


 


    Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our
    operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations
    are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and
    refining and the related storage and transportation of raw
    materials, products and wastes. These potential hazards include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pipeline leaks and ruptures;




 



     
        • 

    
    explosions;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires;




 



     
        • 

    
    severe weather and natural disasters;




 



     
        • 

    
    mechanical failure;




 



     
        • 

    
    unscheduled downtimes;




 



     
        • 

    
    supplier disruptions;







    
    33



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    labor shortages or other labor difficulties;




 



     
        • 

    
    transportation interruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    remediation complications;




 



     
        • 

    
    chemical and oil spills;




 



     
        • 

    
    discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases;




 



     
        • 

    
    storage tank leaks;




 



     
        • 

    
    other environmental risks; and




 



     
        • 

    
    terrorist acts.





 


    Some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction
    of property and equipment and may result in suspension of
    operations or the shutdown of affected facilities.


 



    Our
    operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and
    refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for
    which we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise
    mitigated.


 


    We maintain property, business interruption, product, general
    liability, casualty and other types of insurance, including
    pollution and legal liability, that we believe are in accordance
    with customary industry practices. However, we are not fully
    insured against all potential hazards incident to our business,
    including losses resulting from natural disasters, war risks or
    terrorist acts. Changes in insurance market conditions have
    caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles
    for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and, in
    some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or
    available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to
    incur a significant liability for which we were not fully
    insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the
    uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and
    might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash
    flow from normal business operations.


 


    Further, because a part of our business involves licensing
    polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to
    similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of
    polyolefins. Hazardous incidents involving our licensees, if
    they do result or are perceived to result from use of our
    technologies, may harm our reputation, threaten our
    relationships with other licensees
    and/or lead
    to customer attrition and financial losses. Our policy of
    covering these risks through contractual limitations of
    liability and indemnities and through insurance may not always
    be effective. As a result, our financial condition and results
    of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies
    with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a
    competitive advantage.


 



    Certain
    activities related to a former project raise compliance issues
    under U.S. law.


 


    We have identified an agreement related to a former project in
    Kazakhstan under which a payment was made in late 2008 that
    raises compliance concerns under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act (the “FCPA”). We have engaged outside
    counsel to investigate these activities, under the oversight of
    a special committee established by the Supervisory Board, and to
    evaluate internal controls and compliance policies and
    procedures. We made a voluntary disclosure of these matters to
    the U.S. Department of Justice in late 2009 and are
    cooperating fully with that agency. In this respect, we may not
    have conducted our business in compliance with the FCPA and may
    not have had policies and procedures in place adequate to ensure
    compliance. We cannot reasonably estimate any potential penalty
    that may arise from these matters. We have adopted and are
    implementing more stringent policies and procedures designed to
    ensure compliance. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of
    these matters at this time since our investigations are ongoing.
    Violations of these laws could result in criminal and civil
    liabilities and other forms of relief that could be material to
    us.




    
    34



Table of Contents






    Our
    non-U.S.
    operations conduct business in countries subject to U.S.
    economic sanctions and certain activities raise compliance
    issues under U.S. law.


 


    Certain of our
    non-U.S. subsidiaries
    conduct business in countries subject to U.S. economic
    sanctions, including Iran. U.S. and EU laws and regulations
    prohibit certain persons from engaging in business activities,
    in whole or in part, with sanctioned countries, organizations
    and individuals.


 


    We have and continue to adopt more significant compliance
    policies and procedures to ensure compliance with all applicable
    sanctions laws and regulations. In connection with our
    continuing review of compliance risks in this area, we made a
    voluntary disclosure of certain matters to the
    U.S. Treasury Department and intend to continue cooperating
    fully with that agency. We cannot at this point in time predict
    the outcome of this matter because our investigation is ongoing,
    but there is a risk that we could be subject to civil and
    criminal penalties.


 


    We have made the decision to terminate all business by the
    Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries with the
    government, entities and individuals in Iran, Syria and Sudan.
    We have notified our counterparties in these countries of our
    decision and may be subject to legal actions to enforce
    agreements with the counterparties. These activities present a
    potential risk that could subject the Company to private legal
    proceedings that could be material to us. At this time, we
    cannot predict the outcome because our withdrawal activities are
    ongoing.


 



    Our
    operations could be adversely affected by labor
    relations.


 


    The vast majority of our employees located in Europe and South
    America are represented by labor unions and work councils.
    Approximately 900 of our employees located in North America are
    represented by labor unions. Of the North American employees,
    approximately 50% include our employees that are covered by a
    collective bargaining agreement between Houston Refining LP and
    the United Steelworkers Union, which expires on January 31,
    2012.


 


    Our operations have been in the past, and may be in the future,
    significantly and adversely affected by strikes, work stoppages
    and other labor disputes.


 



    We
    cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under
    environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations,
    and cannot guarantee they will not be material.


 


    We may face liability arising out of the normal course of
    business, including alleged personal injury or property damage
    due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at
    our current or former facilities or chemicals that we
    manufacture, handle or own. In addition, because our products
    are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along
    with other members of the chemical industry, are subject to
    potential claims related to those end-use products. Any
    substantial increase in the success of these types of claims
    could negatively affect our operating results.


 


    We (together with the industries in which we operate) are
    subject to extensive national, regional, state and local
    environmental laws, regulations, directives, rules and
    ordinances concerning


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    emissions to the air,




 



     
        • 

    
    discharges onto land or surface waters or into
    groundwater; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment,
    disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste
    materials.





 


    Many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines
    and potential criminal sanctions for violations. Some of these
    laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting
    interpretations. In addition, some of these laws and regulations
    require us to meet specific financial responsibility
    requirements. Any substantial liability for environmental damage
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.




    
    35



Table of Contents





    Although we have compliance programs and other processes
    intended to ensure compliance with all such regulations, we are
    subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations
    could be challenged. Non-compliance with certain of these
    regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs,
    penalties or assessments that could be material.


 



    Our
    industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and
    existing or future regulations may restrict our operations,
    increase our costs of operations or require us to make
    additional capital expenditures.


 


    Compliance with regulatory requirements could result in higher
    operating costs, such as regulatory requirements relating to
    emissions, the security of our facilities, and the
    transportation, export or registration of our products. We
    generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become
    increasingly more demanding, but cannot accurately predict
    future developments. Increasingly strict environmental laws and
    inspection and enforcement policies, could affect the handling,
    manufacture, use, emission or disposal of products, other
    materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Stricter
    environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and
    enforcement policies could result in increased operating costs.
    Additionally, we are required to have permits for our businesses
    and are subject to licensing regulations. These permits and
    licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some
    circumstances, revocation. Further, the permits and licenses are
    often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could
    contain conditions that limit our operations.


 



    We may
    incur substantial costs to comply with climate change
    legislation and regulatory initiatives.


 


    There has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state,
    national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas
    (“GHG”) reduction. These proposed or promulgated laws
    apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may
    have interests in the future. Laws in this field continue to
    evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread
    and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately
    estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future
    compliance costs relating to implementation. Within the
    framework of EU emissions trading, we were allocated certain
    allowances of carbon dioxide per year for the affected plants of
    our European sites for the 2005 to 2007 period. For the second
    trading period (2008 to 2012), a number of our plants are
    included in the Europe-wide trading system. We expect to incur
    additional costs as a result of the existing emissions trading
    scheme and could incur additional costs in relation to any
    future carbon or other greenhouse gas emission trading schemes.
    The costs could be higher to the extent that we decide to sell
    credits that we need in the future.


 


    In the U.S., the Environmental Protection Agency (the
    “EPA”) has promulgated federal GHG regulations under
    the Clean Air Act affecting certain sources. The EPA has issued
    mandatory GHG reporting requirements which could lead to further
    obligations. The recent EPA action could be a precursor to
    further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other
    greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate
    change lawsuits pending in United States federal courts in a
    manner unfavorable to our industry. In any event, additional
    regulation is likely to be forthcoming at the United States
    federal level or the state level with respect to GHG emissions,
    and such regulation could result in the creation of additional
    costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of
    emission allowances.


 


    Compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and
    obligations that create a GHG emissions trading scheme or GHG
    reduction policies generally could significantly increase our
    costs or reduce demand for products we produce. Depending on the
    nature of potential regulations and legislation, any future laws
    and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or
    additional operating restrictions, and could have a material
    adverse effect on our business and results of operations.


 



    Legislation
    and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand
    for our products.


 


    New or revised governmental regulations and independent studies
    relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the
    environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of
    producing our products. Initiatives by governments and private
    interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological
    testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals,
    including chemicals used or produced by us. For example, in the
    United States, the National Toxicology Program (“NTP”)
    is a federal interagency program that seeks to





    
    36



Table of Contents





    identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to
    evaluate potential human health hazards. In the European
    Commission, REACh is regulation designed to identify the
    intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and
    risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk
    management measures to protect humans and the environment.


 


    Assessments by the NTP, REACh or similar programs or regulations
    in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about
    the chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional
    requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling
    or use of those chemicals. Such concerns and additional
    requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our
    customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the
    use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand
    for these products. Such a decrease in demand could have an
    adverse impact on our business and results of operations.


 



    We
    operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate
    fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks
    relating to international operations.


 


    We operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing
    business on a global level, including fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, war,
    terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political and
    economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the
    transfer of funds, the imposition of duties and tariffs, import
    and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor
    unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. Recent
    demonstrations and popular unrest in portions of the Middle East
    are examples of these events.


 


    These events could reduce the demand for our products, decrease
    the prices at which we can sell our products, disrupt production
    or other operations, require substantial capital and other costs
    to comply,
    and/or
    increase security costs or insurance premiums, all of which
    could reduce our operating results. In addition, we obtain a
    substantial portion of our principal raw materials from
    international sources that are subject to these same risks. Our
    compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control
    regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or
    regulations to which we may be subject could be challenged.
    Furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may
    be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us.


 


    Furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be
    subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our
    activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to
    such laws, which may adversely affect our competitiveness.


 


    In addition, we generate revenues from export sales and
    operations that may be denominated in currencies other than the
    relevant functional currency. Exchange rates between these
    currencies and functional currencies in recent years have
    fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. Future
    events, which may significantly increase or decrease the risk of
    future movement in currencies in which we conduct our business,
    cannot be predicted. We also may hedge certain revenues and
    costs using derivative instruments to minimize the impact of
    changes in the exchange rates of those currencies compared to
    the respective functional currencies. It is possible that
    fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating
    results.


 



    Significant
    changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions
    relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of
    pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our
    pension cost.


 


    Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate
    used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets
    available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and
    the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.
    Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the
    portfolio mix of invested assets may result in corresponding
    increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets,
    particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected
    rate of return on plan assets. Any change in key actuarial
    assumptions, such as the discount rate, would impact the
    valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded
    status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension
    cost in the following fiscal years.




    
    37



Table of Contents





    Certain of our current pension plans are underfunded. As of
    December 31, 2010, our pension plans were underfunded by
    $1,173 million. Any declines in the fair values of the
    pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in
    order to maintain specified funding levels.


 


    Our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory
    requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include,
    under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to
    terminate the plan.


 



    We may
    be required to record material charges against our earnings due
    to any number of events that could cause impairments to our
    assets.


 


    We may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities
    for extended periods of time or exit certain businesses as a
    result of the cyclical nature of our industry. Specifically,
    oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or
    high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. We
    may choose to reduce production at certain facilities because we
    have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which makes any
    reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. Any
    decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business
    likely would result in impairment and other charges to earnings.


 


    Temporary outages at our facilities can last for several
    quarters and sometimes longer. These outages could cause us to
    incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining
    and restarting these facilities. In addition, even though we may
    reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue
    to purchase or pay for utilities or raw materials under
    take-or-pay
    supply agreements.


 



    Many
    of our businesses depend on our intellectual property. Our
    future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our
    intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could
    reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and
    margins.


 


    We have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and
    pending patents. These patents, together with proprietary
    technical know-how, are significant to our competitive position,
    particularly with regard to PO, performance chemicals,
    petrochemicals, and polymers, including process technologies
    such as Spheripol, Spherizone, Hostalen, Spherilene, Lupotech
    T and Lupotech G and Avant catalyst family
    technology rights. We rely on the patent, copyright and trade
    secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our
    investment in research and development, manufacturing and
    marketing. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties
    from using our intellectual property without authorization.
    Proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may
    not prevail.


 


    The protection afforded by patents varies from country to
    country and depends upon the type of patent and its scope of
    coverage. While a presumption of validity exists with respect to
    patents issued to us, our patents may be challenged,
    invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. As patents
    expire, the products and processes described and claimed under
    those patents become generally available for use by competitors.


 


    Our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the
    world where intellectual property protection may be limited and
    difficult to enforce. In addition, patent rights may not prevent
    our competitors from developing, using or selling products that
    are similar or functionally equivalent to our products.
    Moreover, our competitors or other third parties may obtain
    patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully
    produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which
    could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit
    margins or loss of market share.


 


    We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing
    technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and
    maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to
    enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and
    third parties to protect our intellectual property, these
    confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide
    meaningful protection or adequate remedies may not be available.
    Additionally, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets
    through independent development or other access by legal or
    illegal means.


 


    The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to
    protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or
    proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower
    revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows





    
    38



Table of Contents





    and/or loss
    of market share. We also may be subject to claims that our
    technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on
    a third party’s intellectual property rights. Unfavorable
    resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our
    ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that
    could be material to us.


 



    We may
    not be able to fully or successfully implement our ongoing plans
    to improve and globally integrate our business processes and
    functions.


 


    We continue to seek ways to drive greater productivity,
    flexibility and cost savings. In particular, we are working
    towards the improvement and global integration of our business
    processes and functions. As part of these efforts, we have been
    centralizing certain functions within the Company, implementing
    new information technology, and integrating our existing
    information technology systems.


 


    Our ongoing implementation of organizational improvements is
    made more difficult by our need to coordinate geographically
    dispersed operations. Inabilities and delays in implementing
    improvements can negatively affect our ability to realize
    projected or expected cost savings. In addition, the process of
    organizational improvements may cause interruptions of, or loss
    of momentum in, the activities of the Company’s businesses.
    It may also result in the loss of personnel or other labor
    issues. These issues, as well as any information technology
    systems failures, also could impede our ability to timely
    collect and report financial results in accordance with
    applicable laws and regulations.


 



    Shared
    control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions
    or actions regarding the joint ventures.


 


    A portion of our operations are conducted through joint
    ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with
    unaffiliated third parties. We cannot control the actions of our
    joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or
    bankruptcy of joint venture partners. The joint ventures that we
    do not control may also lack adequate internal controls systems.


 


    In the event that any of our joint venture partners do not
    observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected
    joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with
    our business plans. As a result, we could be required to
    increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such
    plans. Differences in views among the joint venture participants
    also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on
    major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and
    operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and
    operations.


 



    Litigation
    or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse
    consequences, including judgments or settlements.


 


    We are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of
    our business and from
    time-to-time
    are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct
    of our business. The timing of the final resolutions to these
    types of matters is often uncertain. Additionally, the possible
    outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse
    judgments or settlements, either of which could require
    substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity and
    earnings.


 



    Our
    capital requirements could limit or cause us to change our
    growth and development plans.


 


    At December 31, 2010, we have approximately
    $6.1 billion of total consolidated debt. Our debt and the
    limitations imposed on us by our financing arrangements could:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    require us to dedicate a substantial portion, or all, of our
    cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest
    on our debt;




 



     
        • 

    
    make us more vulnerable during downturns , which could limit our
    ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities
    and react to changes in our business and in market or industry
    conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors
    that have less debt.







    
    39



Table of Contents




 


    If our cash flow from operations and capital resources were
    reduced, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and
    capital expenditures or other planned uses of our cash due to
    our substantial debt service obligations. We could choose to
    sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance
    our indebtedness, but there can be no assurances that we would
    be able to do so on terms we deem acceptable, if at all.
    Additionally, our debt instruments may limit our ability to
    effect such actions.


 


    Our debt or other financing arrangements contain a number of
    restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial
    restrictions on us. There also is a minimum fixed charge
    coverage ratio contained in our U.S. ABL Facility that is
    applicable if availability under the facility falls below
    certain levels. We currently are in compliance with all of our
    restrictive and financial covenants; however, the ability to
    meet financial requirements can be affected by events beyond our
    control and, over time, these covenants may not be satisfied.


 


    A breach of covenants of or the failure to pay principal and
    interest when due under our debt or other financing could result
    in a default or cross-default under all or some of those
    instruments. Any such default could result in an acceleration of
    all amounts outstanding under all facilities, and could relieve
    counterparties of their obligations to fund or otherwise make
    advances. Without waivers from the parties to our financing
    arrangements, any such default would have a material adverse
    effect on our ability to continue to operate.


 



    A
    substantial portion of our shares are owned by a few persons,
    and their interests in LyondellBasell Industries N.V. may
    conflict with other stakeholders’ interests.


 


    Three shareholders collectively own approximately 52% of our
    outstanding ordinary shares. Under Dutch law, there are no
    quorum requirements for shareholder voting and most matters are
    approved or adopted by a majority of votes cast. As a result, as
    long as these shareholders or any other substantial shareholder
    own, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our
    outstanding shares, they will be able to significantly influence
    all matters requiring shareholder approval, including amendments
    to our Articles of Association, the election of directors,
    significant corporate transactions, dividend payments and other
    matters. These shareholders may have interests that conflict
    with other shareholders and actions may be taken that other
    shareholders do not view as beneficial.


 


    Additionally, each of these three shareholders is party to a
    nomination agreement that entitles the shareholder cause our
    Supervisory Board to nominate for election members to our
    Supervisory Board for so long as the shareholder owns specified
    percentages of our ordinary shares.


 



    We are
    subject to Dutch law and the rights of our ordinary shareholders
    may be different from those rights associated with companies
    governed by other laws.


 


    As a result of being organized under the laws of The
    Netherlands, our corporate structure as well as the rights and
    obligations of our ordinary shareholders may be different from
    the rights and obligations of shareholders in companies
    incorporated in other jurisdictions. Resolutions of the general
    meeting of shareholders may be taken with majorities different
    from the majorities required for adoption of equivalent
    resolutions in, for example, Delaware companies. Additionally,
    like other Dutch companies, our articles of association and our
    board charter contain control-enhancing rights that may have the
    effect of preventing, discouraging or delaying a change of
    control.


 



    If we
    were classified as a controlled foreign corporation, any 10%
    U.S. shareholders may be responsible for U.S. income taxes on a
    pro-rata share of our income.


 


    If the sum of the percentage ownership held by all of our 10%
    U.S. shareholders (as determined under the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986, as amended (“IRC”)) exceeds 50% of our
    ordinary shares, we would be classified as a controlled foreign
    corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In the
    event such a classification were made, all 10%
    U.S. shareholders would be subject to taxation under
    Subpart F of the IRC, which could require such 10%
    U.S. shareholders to pay U.S. federal income taxes on
    a pro rata portion of our income, even in the absence of any
    distribution of such income.




    
    40



Table of Contents





    Based on information currently available to us, we do not
    believe we are a controlled foreign corporation at this time.


 



    U.S.
    anti-inversion rules may apply to LyondellBasell Industries N.V.
    resulting in certain adverse U.S. federal income tax
    consequences.


 


    The United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”)
    could seek to apply Section 7874 of the IRC to treat
    LyondellBasell Industries N.V. as a U.S. corporation for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes or, alternatively, it
    could seek to impose U.S. federal income tax on certain income
    of our U.S. subsidiaries. Such an application would be based
    upon the value of stock issued in our emergence from
    Chapter 11 that the former creditors and shareholders of
    our top U.S. holding company and its direct and indirect
    subsidiaries received by reason of holding claims against those
    entities.


 


    Treatment as a U.S. corporation could result in significantly
    increased U.S. federal income tax liability to us. Application
    of the alternative could impose U.S. federal income tax on our
    U.S. subsidiaries.


 


    Although no assurance can be given that the IRS would not take a
    contrary position regarding Section 7874’s application
    or that such position, if asserted, would not be sustained, we
    believe that the stock issued in connection with our emergence
    from the Bankruptcy Cases that is attributable to the value of
    the claims against our companies outside the U.S. Group makes a
    Section 7874 inapplicable to us. In addition, we believe
    that strong arguments can be made that Section 7874 should not
    in any event apply to us because of the substantial business
    activities that we and our affiliates conduct and have
    historically conducted in The Netherlands.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B