Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    In evaluating the Company, the risks described below and the
    matters described in “Forward-Looking Statements”
    should be considered carefully. Such risks and matters could
    significantly and adversely affect the Company’s business,
    prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    The
    Company faces significant competition in the retail
    industry.


 


    The Company conducts its retail merchandising business under
    highly competitive conditions. Although the Company is one of
    the nation’s largest retailers, it has numerous and varied
    competitors at the national and local levels, including
    conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty
    stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers,
    discounters, and Internet and mail-order retailers. Competition
    may intensify as the Company’s competitors enter into
    business combinations or alliances. Competition is characterized
    by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price,
    quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability.
    If the Company does not compete effectively with regard to these
    factors, its results of operations could be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    The
    Company’s sales and operating results depend on consumer
    preferences and consumer spending.


 


    The fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts
    in consumer trends and consumer spending. The Company’s
    sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to
    predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer
    preferences in a timely manner. The Company develops new retail
    concepts and



    
    6



 




    continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and
    private-label brands and product categories in an effort to
    satisfy customers. Any sustained failure to anticipate, identify
    and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer
    preferences could have a material adverse affect on the
    Company’s business. Consumer spending may be affected by
    many factors outside of the Company’s control, including
    employment levels, consumer confidence, consumers’
    disposable income, the availability and cost of credit and other
    general economic conditions.


 



    The
    Company’s business is subject to unfavorable economic and
    political conditions and other developments and risks.


 


    Unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political
    conditions and other developments and risks could negatively
    affect the Company’s business. For example, unfavorable
    changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth,
    fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation,
    deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels,
    tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices, and other
    matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise,
    consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact
    the Company’s business and results of operations. In
    addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest,
    including terrorist activities and worldwide military and
    domestic disturbances and conflicts, may disrupt commerce and
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    business and results of operations.


 



    The
    Company’s revenues and cash requirements are affected by
    the seasonal nature of its business.


 


    The Company’s business is seasonal, with a high proportion
    of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second
    half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday
    selling seasons. A disproportionate amount of revenues fall in
    the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday
    season. In addition, the Company incurs significant additional
    expenses in the period leading up to the months of November and
    December in anticipation of higher sales volume in those
    periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and
    employees.


 



    The
    Company’s business could be affected by extreme weather
    conditions or natural disasters.


 


    Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the
    Company’s stores are located could adversely affect the
    Company’s business. For example, frequent or unusually
    heavy snowfall, ice storms, rain storms or other extreme weather
    conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for
    the Company’s customers to travel to its stores and thereby
    reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. The
    Company’s business is also susceptible to unseasonable
    weather conditions. For example, extended periods of
    unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool
    weather during the summer season could render a portion of the
    Company’s inventory incompatible with those unseasonable
    conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable
    weather conditions could adversely affect the Company’s
    business.


 


    In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and
    earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could
    severely damage or destroy one or more of the Company’s
    stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby
    disrupting the Company’s business operations.


 



    The
    Company’s pension costs could increase at a higher than
    anticipated rate.


 


    Significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair
    value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could
    affect the funded status of the Company’s plans and could
    increase future funding



    
    7



 




    requirements of the pension plans. A significant increase in
    future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the
    Company’s cash flows, financial condition or results of
    operations.


 



    Inability
    to access capital markets may adversely affect the
    Company’s business or financial condition.


 


    Changes in the credit and capital markets, including market
    disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations,
    may increase the cost of financing or restrict the
    Company’s access to this potential source of future
    liquidity. A decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign
    to the Company’s short and long-term debt may negatively
    impact the Company’s access to the debt capital markets and
    increase the Company’s cost of borrowing. In addition, the
    Company’s bank credit agreements require the Company to
    maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. The
    Company’s ability to comply with the ratios may be affected
    by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic,
    financial and industry conditions. If the Company’s results
    of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where
    the Company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and
    the Company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the
    Company’s debt would be in default and could become due and
    payable immediately. The Company’s assets may not be
    sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a
    need for an alternate source of funding. The inability to access
    the capital markets as needed could adversely affect the
    Company’s business and financial condition.


 



    The
    Company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality
    employees.


 


    The Company’s business is dependent upon attracting and
    retaining a large and growing number of quality employees. Many
    of these employees are in entry level or part-time positions
    with historically high rates of turnover. The Company’s
    ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs
    associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to
    external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage
    rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics.
    Changes that adversely impact the Company’s ability to
    attract and retain quality employees could adversely affect the
    Company’s business.


 



    The
    Company depends upon its relationships with designers, vendors
    and other sources of merchandise.


 


    The Company’s relationships with established and emerging
    designers have been a significant contributor to the
    Company’s past success. The Company’s ability to find
    qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient
    manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods
    sourced outside the United States. Political or financial
    instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange
    rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating
    to foreign trade, each of which affects the Company’s
    ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are
    beyond the Company’s control and could adversely impact the
    Company’s performance.


 



    The
    Company depends upon the success of its advertising and
    marketing programs.


 


    The Company’s advertising and promotional costs, net of
    cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to
    $1,194 million for 2007. The Company’s business
    depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective
    marketing. The Company has many initiatives in this area, and
    often changes its advertising and marketing programs. There can
    be no assurance as to the Company’s continued ability to
    effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and
    any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business and results of operations.


 


    
    8



 





    The
    benefits expected to be realized from the division
    consolidations and market localization initiatives are subject
    to various risks, and the Company’s failure to complete the
    division consolidations and market localization initiatives
    successfully or on a timely basis could reduce the
    Company’s profitability.


 


    The Company’s success in fully realizing the anticipated
    benefits from the division consolidations and market
    localization initiatives will depend in large part on achieving
    anticipated cost savings, business opportunities and growth
    prospects. There can be no assurance that anticipated cost
    savings, business opportunities and growth prospects will
    materialize. The Company’s ability to benefit from the
    division consolidations and market localization initiatives is
    subject to both the risks affecting the Company’s business
    generally and the inherent difficulties associated with the
    division consolidations and implementing the market localization
    initiatives. The failure of the Company to realize the benefits
    expected to result from the division consolidations and market
    localization initiatives could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s business and results of operations.


 



    A
    material disruption in the Company’s computer systems could
    adversely affect the Company’s business or results of
    operations.


 


    The Company relies extensively on its computer systems to
    process transactions, summarize results and manage its business.
    The Company’s computer systems are subject to damage or
    interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications
    failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic
    events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes,
    hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the
    Company’s employees. If the Company’s computer systems
    are damaged or cease to function properly, the Company may have
    to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the
    Company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or
    delays in its operations in the interim. Any material
    interruption in the Company’s computer systems could
    adversely affect its business or results of operations.


 



    A privacy
    breach could adversely affect the Company’s
    business.


 


    The protection of customer, employee, and company data is
    critical to the Company. The regulatory environment surrounding
    information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with
    the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing
    requirements across business units. In addition, customers have
    a high expectation that the Company will adequately protect
    their personal information. A significant breach of customer,
    employee, or company data could damage the Company’s
    reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits.


 



    A
    regional or global health pandemic could severely affect the
    Company’s business.


 


    A health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely
    by infection and affects many individuals in an area or
    population at the same time. If a regional or global health
    pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration
    and severity, the Company’s business could be severely
    affected. Customers might avoid public places in the event of a
    health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments
    might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread
    of disease. A regional or global health pandemic might also
    adversely impact the Company’s business by disrupting or
    delaying production and delivery of materials and products in
    its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores.


 


    
    9



 





    The
    Company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely
    affect its business.


 


    The Company is subject to customs, child labor,
    truth-in-advertising
    and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and
    zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers
    generally
    and/or
    govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and
    the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities.
    Although the Company undertakes to monitor changes in these
    laws, if these laws change without the Company’s knowledge,
    or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or
    distributors, the Company could experience delays in shipments
    and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties
    under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely
    affect the Company’s business.


 



    Litigation
    or regulatory developments could adversely affect the
    Company’s business or financial condition.


 


    The Company is subject to various federal, state and local laws,
    rules and regulations, which may change from time to time. In
    addition, the Company is regularly involved in various
    litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its
    business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely
    affect the Company’s business and financial condition.


 



    Factors
    beyond the Company’s control could affect the
    Company’s stock price.


 


    The Company’s stock price, like that of other retail
    companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many
    factors, including factors beyond the control of the Company.
    These factors may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general economic and stock market conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    risks relating to the Company’s business and its industry,
    including those discussed above;




 



     
        • 

    
    strategic actions by the Company or its competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in the Company’s quarterly results of operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    future sales or purchases of the Company’s common
    stock; and




 



     
        • 

    
    investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated
    with the Company’s common stock relative to other
    investment alternatives.





 


    In addition, the Company may fail to meet the expectations of
    its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. If
    the analysts that regularly follow the Company’s stock
    lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth
    and financial performance, the Company’s stock price could
    decline. Also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the
    Company’s common stock in the public market or the
    appearance that these shares are available for sale could
    adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common
    stock.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B