 for a more detailed discussion of our legal and regulatory developments and risks.Our BusinessOur Operations and NetworkWe operate the MasterCard Network, our unique and proprietary global payments network that links issuers and acquirers around the globe to facilitate the processing of transactions, permitting MasterCard cardholders to use their cards and other payment devices at millions of merchants worldwide.  Our network facilitates an efficient and secure means for merchants to receive payments, as well as convenient, quick and secure payment method for consumers and businesses that is accepted worldwide.  We process transactions through our network for our issuer customers in more than 150 currencies in more than 210 countries and territories.6Table of ContentsTypical Transaction.  With a typical transaction involving four participants in addition to us, our network supports what is often referred to as a “four-party” payments network.  The following diagram depicts a typical transaction on our network, and our role in that transaction:In a typical transaction, a cardholder purchases goods or services from a merchant using a card or other payment device.  After the transaction is authorized by the issuer, the issuer pays the acquirer an amount equal to the value of the transaction, minus the interchange fee (described below), and then posts the transaction to the cardholder’s account.  The acquirer pays the amount of the purchase, net of a discount (referred to as the “merchant discount” rate, as further described below), to the merchant.Interchange Fees.  Interchange fees reflect the value merchants receive from accepting our products and play a key role in balancing the costs consumers and merchants pay.  We do not earn revenues from interchange fees.  Generally, interchange fees are collected from acquirers and paid to issuers to reimburse the issuers for a portion of the costs incurred by them in providing services that benefit all participants in the system, including acquirers and merchants.  We or financial institutions establish “default interchange fees” that apply when there are no other established settlement terms in place between an issuer and an acquirer.  We administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process.Additional Four-Party System Fees.  The “merchant discount rate” is established by the acquirer to cover its costs of both participating in the four-party system and providing services to merchants.  The rate takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee which the acquirer generally pays to the issuer.  Additionally, acquirers may charge merchants processing and related fees in addition to the merchant discount rate, and issuers may also charge cardholders fees for the transaction, including, for example, fees for extending revolving credit.Our Network Architecture and Information Security.  The MasterCard Network features a globally integrated structure that provides scale for our issuers, enabling them to expand into regional and global markets.  It features an intelligent architecture that enables the network to adapt to the needs of each transaction by blending two distinct processing structures:•a distributed (peer-to-peer) processing structure for transactions that require fast, reliable processing to ensure they are processed close to where the transaction occurred; and  •a centralized (hub-and-spoke) processing structure for transactions that require value-added processing, such as real-time access to transaction data for fraud scoring or rewards at the point-of-sale, to ensure advanced processing products and services are applied to the transaction.  Our network’s architecture enables us to connect all parties regardless of where or how the transaction is occurring. It has 24-hour a day availability and world-class response time.  The network incorporates multiple layers of protection, both for continuity 7Table of Contentspurposes and to address information security challenges.  We engage in multiple efforts to mitigate such challenges, including regularly testing our systems to address potential vulnerabilities.Participation Standards.  We establish, apply and enforce standards surrounding participation in the MasterCard payments system.  We grant licenses that provide issuers, acquirers and other customers that meet specified criteria with certain rights, including access to the network and usage of cards and payment devices carrying our brands.  As a condition of our licenses, issuers, acquirers and other customers agree to comply with our standards surrounding participation and brand usage and acceptance.  We monitor areas of risk exposure and enforce our standards to combat fraudulent, illegal and brand-damaging activity.  Issuers, acquirers and other customers are also required to report instances of fraud to us in a timely manner so that we can monitor trends and initiate action when appropriate.Customer Risk Management.  We guarantee the settlement of many of the transactions between our issuers and acquirers to ensure the integrity of our network.  We refer to this as our settlement exposure.  We do not, however, guarantee payments to merchants by their acquirer, or the availability of unspent prepaid cardholder account balances.  As a guarantor of certain obligations of principal customers, we are exposed to customer credit risk arising from the potential financial failure of any principal customers of MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, and affiliate debit licensees.  Principal customers participate directly in MasterCard programs and are responsible for the settlement and other activities of their sponsored affiliate customers.  To minimize the contingent risk to MasterCard of a failure of a customer to meet its settlement obligations, we monitor the financial health of, economic and political operating environments of, and compliance with our standards by our customers.  We employ various strategies to mitigate these risks.Transaction ProcessingSwitching  •Authorization, Clearing and Settlement.  Through the MasterCard Network, we enable the routing of a transaction to the issuer for its approval, facilitate the exchange of financial transaction information between issuers and acquirers after a successfully conducted transaction, and help to settle the transaction by facilitating the exchange of funds between parties via settlement banks chosen by us and our customers.•Cross-Border and Domestic.  The MasterCard Network switches transactions throughout the world when the merchant country and issuer country are different (cross-border transactions), providing cardholders with the ability to use, and merchants to accept, MasterCard cards and other payment devices across country borders.  We also provide domestic (or intra-country) transaction switching services to customers in every region of the world, which allow issuers to facilitate payment transactions between cardholders and merchants within a particular country.  We switch approximately half of all transactions using MasterCard and Maestro-branded cards, including most cross-border transactions.  We switch the majority of MasterCard and Maestro-branded domestic transactions in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil and a select number of other countries.  Outside of these countries, most domestic transactions on our products are switched without our involvement.Other Processing.  We extend our processing capabilities in the payments value chain in various regions and across the globe with an expanded suite of offerings, including:•Issuer and acquirer solutions designed to provide medium to large customers with a complete processing solution to help them create differentiated products and services and allow quick deployment of payments portfolios across banking channels. •Payment gateways that offer a single interface to provide e-commerce merchants with the ability to process secure payments and offer value-added solutions, including outsourced electronic payments, fraud prevention and alternative payment options.  •Mobile gateways that facilitate transaction routing and prepaid processing for mobile-initiated transactions for our customers. 8Table of ContentsPrograms and SolutionsWe provide a wide variety of products and solutions that support payment products that customers can offer to their cardholders.  These services facilitate transactions on the MasterCard Network among cardholders, merchants, financial institutions and governments in markets globally.  The following chart provides GDV and number of cards featuring our brands in 2015 for select programs and solutions: Year Ended December 31, 2015 As of December 31, 2015 GDV in billions % of Total GDV Cards in millions Percentage Increase from December 31, 2014MasterCard Branded Programs 1       Consumer Credit$2,077 46% 739 4%Commercial Credit374 8% 41 8%Debit and Prepaid2,112 46% 783 19%1 Excludes Maestro and Cirrus cards and volume generated by those cards. Consumer Credit and Charge.  We offer a number of programs that enable issuers to provide consumers with cards that allow them to defer payment.  These programs are designed to meet the needs of our customers around the world and address standard, premium and affluent consumer segments.Debit.  We support a range of payment products and solutions that allow our customers to provide consumers with convenient access to funds in deposit and other accounts.  Our debit and deposit access programs can be used to make purchases and to obtain cash in bank branches, at ATMs and, in some cases, at the point of sale.  Our branded debit programs consist of MasterCard (including standard, premium and affluent offerings), Maestro (the only PIN-based solution that operates globally) and Cirrus (our primary global cash access solution).Prepaid.  Prepaid programs involve a balance that is funded prior to use and can be accessed via a card or other payment device.  We offer prepaid payment programs using any of our brands, which we support with processing products and services.  Segments on which we focus include government programs such as Social Security payments, unemployment benefits and others; commercial programs such as payroll, health savings accounts, employee benefits and others; and consumer reloadable programs for individuals without formal banking relationships and non-traditional users of electronic payments.We also provide prepaid program management services, primarily outside of the United States, that manage and enable switching and issuer processing for consumer and commercial prepaid travel cards for business partners such as financial institutions, retailers, telecommunications companies, travel agents, foreign exchange bureaus, colleges and universities, airlines and governments.Commercial.  We offer commercial payment products and solutions that help large corporations, mid-sized companies, small businesses and government entities streamline their procurement and payment processes, manage information and expenses (such as travel and entertainment) and reduce administrative costs.  Our offerings and platforms include premium, travel, purchasing and fleet cards and programs; our SmartData tool that provides information reporting and expense management capabilities; and credit and debit programs targeted for small businesses.Payment Innovations.  The continued adoption of mobile devices has resulted in the ongoing convergence of the physical and digital worlds, where consumers are increasingly seeking to use their payment accounts to pay when, where and how they want. Leveraging our global innovations capability, we are developing platforms, products and solutions that take advantage of this convergence and give us the opportunity to lead the transition to digital payments.  We do this in a number of ways, including:•Creating Better Shopping and Selling Experiences.  We are focused on offering digital solutions, such as our MasterPass digital payments ecosystem and MasterCard Digital Enablement Service (MDES) suite, and other products to make shopping and selling experiences simpler, faster and safer for both consumers and merchants.  We also offer products that make it easier for merchants to accept payments and expand their customer base and are developing products and practices to facilitate acceptance via mobile devices.•Engaging with New Partners.  We enable consumers to securely use their smartphones to make digital payments through numerous active partnerships with mobile leaders and large digital companies around the world. Through our Open API Services, developers can innovate and create applications using financial and data services offered through the MasterCard Developer Zone.9Table of Contents•Facilitating Money Transfers and Personal Payments.  We provide money transfer and global remittance solutions to enable our customers to facilitate consumers sending and receiving money quickly and securely domestically and around the world.  We continue to enhance our personal payments platforms, providing financial institutions connected to our network with additional opportunities for their customers to send funds domestically and globally. We also focus on developing the future of payments and delivering additional consumer shopping safety and convenience through MasterCard Labs, our global innovation and development arm.  Our efforts include incubating various ideas and hosting thought-leadership events to spur the next generation of innovative payment products.  Safety and SecurityWe offer products and services to prevent, detect and respond to fraud and to ensure the safety of transactions made on MasterCard products.  We work with issuers, merchants and governments to help develop standards for safe and secure transactions for the global payments system.  We have worked with our financial institution customers to provide products to consumers globally with increased confidence through the benefit of “zero liability”, or no responsibility for counterfeit or lost card losses in the event of fraud.Our products and solutions include:•internet authentication/verification solutions that leverage biometrics;•services assisting customers, merchants and third-party service providers in protecting against attacks and subsequent account data compromises; and•fraud detection and management products and services.  We have been leading the development of industry standards, working with many payments industry associations to ensure that payment security standards are put in place as part of our multi-layered approach to protect the global payments system.  These efforts include evolving a roadmap for the migration to EMV and developing an industry-open standard for tokenization, which helps protect sensitive cardholder information for digital transactions by generating unique credentials to an identified and verified individual that may be used for a specific transaction.  As of December 31, 2015, nearly 50% of all U.S.-issued MasterCard consumer credit and debit cards featured EMV technology and many merchants are turning on the chip capabilities in their terminals.Value-Added Solutions MasterCard Advisors.  MasterCard Advisors is our global professional services group that provides proprietary analysis, data-driven consulting and marketing services solutions to help clients optimize, streamline and grow their businesses, as well as deliver value to consumers.  With analyses based on billions of transactions processed globally, we leverage anonymized and aggregated information and a consultative approach to help financial institutions, merchants, media companies, governments and other organizations grow their businesses or otherwise achieve efficiencies.Our information services group provides a suite of data analytics and products (including reports, benchmarks, models and insights) that enable our customers to make better business decisions.  Our consulting services group combines professional problem-solving skills with payments expertise to provide solutions that address the challenges and opportunities of clients with respect to payments.  The managed services group provides solutions to enable data-driven acquisition of accounts, activation of portfolios, conversion of cards, marketing promotions activities and other customer management services. Loyalty and Rewards Solutions.  We provide a scalable rewards platform that enables issuers to provide consumers with a variety of benefits and services, such as personalized offers and rewards, access to a global airline lounge network, global and local concierge services, individual insurance coverages, emergency card replacement, emergency cash advance services and a 24-hour cardholder service center.  For merchants, we provide targeted offers and rewards campaigns and management services for publishing offers, as well as opportunities for holders of co-brand or loyalty cards and rewards program members to obtain reward points faster.  We support these services with program management capabilities.MarketingWe manage and promote our brands through advertising, promotions and sponsorships, as well as digital, mobile and social media initiatives, in order to increase consumer preference for our brands and usage of our products.  We sponsor a variety of sporting, entertainment and charity-related marketing properties to align with consumer segments important to us and our 10Table of Contentscustomers.  Our advertising plays an important role in building brand visibility, usage and overall preference among cardholders globally.  Our “Priceless®” advertising campaign, which has run in 53 languages in 112 countries worldwide, promotes MasterCard usage benefits and acceptance, markets MasterCard payment products and solutions and provides MasterCard with a consistent, recognizable message that supports our brand around the globe.  We have extended Priceless to create experiences through three platforms to drive brand preference - Priceless Cities® provides cardholders across all of our regions with access to special experiences and offers in various cities, Priceless Causes® provides cardholders with opportunities to support philanthropic causes, and Priceless Surprises® provides cardholders with unexpected and unique surprises.Our Revenue Sources We generate revenues by assessing our customers primarily based on GDV on the cards and other devices that carry our brands and from the fees we charge to our customers for providing transaction processing and other payment-related products and services.  Our net revenues are classified into five categories:  domestic assessment fees, cross-border volume fees, transaction processing fees, other revenues and rebates and incentives (contra-revenue).  See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Revenues” in Part II, Item 7 for more detail about our revenue, GDV and processed transactions.Intellectual PropertyWe own a number of valuable trademarks that are essential to our business, including MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus, through one or more affiliates.  We also own numerous other trademarks covering various brands, programs and services offered by MasterCard to support our payment programs.  Trademark and service mark registrations are generally valid indefinitely as long as they are used and/or properly maintained.  Through license agreements with our customers, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with our customers’ issuing and merchant acquiring businesses.  In addition, we own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, smart cards, contactless, mobile, electronic commerce, security systems and other matters, many of which are important to our business operations.  Patents are of varying duration depending on the jurisdiction and filing date.CompetitionWe compete in the global payments industry against all forms of payment including:•cash and checks; •card-based payments, including credit, charge, debit, ATM and prepaid products, as well as limited-use products such as private label; •contactless, mobile and e-commerce payments, as well as cryptocurrency; and •other electronic payments, including wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, bill payments and automated clearing house payments (ACH).  We face a number of competitors both within and outside the global payments industry:•Cash and Check.  Cash and check continue to represent the most widely used forms of payment, constituting approximately 85% of the world’s retail payment transactions. •General Purpose Payment Networks.  We compete worldwide with payment networks such as Visa, American Express and Discover, among others.  Among global networks, Visa has significantly greater volume than we do.  Outside of the United States, networks such as JCB in Japan and UnionPay in China have leading positions in their domestic markets.  In the case of UnionPay, it operates the sole domestic payment switch in China.  In addition, several governments are promoting, or considering promoting, local networks for domestic processing.  See our risk factors related to payments system regulation and government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively for a more detailed discussion.11Table of Contents•Debit.  We compete with ATM and point-of-sale debit networks in various countries, such as Interlink®, Plus® and Visa Electron® (owned by Visa Inc.), Star® (owned by First Data Corporation), NYCE® (owned by FIS) and Pulse® (owned by Discover) in the United States; Interac in Canada; EFTPOS in Australia; and Bankserv in South Africa.  In addition, in many countries outside of the United States, local debit brands serve as the main domestic brands, while our brands are used mostly to enable cross-border transactions, which typically represent a small portion of overall transaction volume.  Jurisdictions have also created domestic card schemes that are focused mostly on debit and driven by nationalism (including RuPay in India and MIR in Russia).  •Three-Party Payments Networks.  Our competitors include operators of proprietary three-party payments networks, such as American Express and Discover, which have direct acquiring relationships with merchants and direct issuing relationships with account holders.  These competitors have certain competitive advantages over four-party payments systems such as ours.  Among other things, these networks do not require formal interchange fees to balance payment system costs between the issuing and acquiring sides of their business, even though they have the ability to internally transfer costs in a manner similar to interchange fees.  As a result, to date, operators of three-party payments networks have avoided some of the regulatory and litigation challenges we face.•Competition for Customer Business.  We compete intensely with other payments networks for customer business.  Globally, financial institutions typically issue both MasterCard and Visa-branded payment products, and we compete with Visa for business on the basis of individual portfolios or programs.  In addition, a number of our customers issue American Express and/or Discover-branded payment cards in a manner consistent with a four-party system.  We continue to face intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our issuers and acquirers, and we seek to enter into business agreements with them through which we offer incentives and other support to issue and promote our payment products.  We also compete for non-financial institution partners, such as merchants, governments and telecommunication companies.•Third-Party Processors.  We face competition and potential displacement from transaction processors throughout the world, such as First Data Corporation and Total System Services, Inc., which are seeking to enhance their networks that link issuers directly with point-of-sale devices for payment transaction authorization and processing services.•Alternative Payments Systems and New Entrants.  As the global payments industry becomes more complex, we may face increasing competition from emerging payment providers.  Many of these providers have developed payments systems focused on online activity in e-commerce and mobile channels; however, they either have or may expand to other channels.  These competitors include digital wallet providers (such as PayPal, Alipay and Amazon), mobile operator services, mobile phone-based money transfer and microfinancing services (such as mPesa), handset manufacturers and cryptocurrencies.  We compete with these providers in some circumstances, but in some cases they may also be our customers or partner with us.•Value-Added Solutions.  We face competition from companies that provide alternatives to our value-added solutions, including information services and consulting firms that provide consulting services and insights to financial institutions, as well as companies that compete against us as providers of loyalty and program management solutions.Our competitive advantages include:•our globally recognized brands;•our highly adaptable network that we believe is the world’s fastest; •our adoption of innovative products and digital solutions; •our MasterPass global digital payments ecosystem; •the safety and security solutions embedded in our network; •our MasterCard Advisors group dedicated solely to the payments industry; and•our ability to serve a broad array of participants in global payments due to our expanded on-soil presence in individual markets and a heightened focus on working with governments.12Table of ContentsGovernment RegulationGeneral.  Government regulation impacts key aspects of our business.  We are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards and payment devices are used.  See “Risk Factors” in Part I, .  Also see Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.Payments System Regulation.  Regulators in several countries around the world either have, or are seeking to establish, authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in their countries.  Such authority could result in regulation of various aspects of our business.  Additionally, we are or may be subject to regulations related to our role in the financial industry and our relationship with our financial institution customers.  For example, certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council under its authority to examine financial institutions’ technology service providers.  Preferential or Protective Government Actions.  Some governments have taken actions to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, as well as create their own national providers.  No-Surcharge Rules.  We have historically implemented policies in certain regions that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using MasterCard products instead of other means.  Authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so), including in Australia and Canada.  Additionally, pursuant to the terms of settlement of the U.S. merchant class litigation, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit U.S. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations.  Data Protection and Information Security.  Aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection laws in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere.  For example, in the United States, we and our customers are respectively subject to Federal Trade Commission and federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that require the maintenance of a written, comprehensive information security program.  Due to constant changes to the nature of data, regulatory authorities around the world are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection.  In addition, the interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in a state of flux.  This includes the recent ruling by the European Court of Justice that invalidated the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor treaty and the newly announced EU-U.S. Privacy Shield. Anti-Money Laundering.  MasterCard is subject to anti-money laundering (“AML”) laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act.  We have implemented a comprehensive AML program designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity.  Our AML compliance program is comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks.  Economic Sanctions.  We are subject to regulations imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) restricting financial transactions and other dealings with Crimea, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria and Sudan and with persons and entities included in OFAC’s list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (the “SDN List”).  Iran, Syria and Sudan have been identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states.  We have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in these countries or in the Crimea region and do not license financial institutions domiciled there.  We have established a risk-based compliance program that includes policies, procedures and controls that are designed to prevent us from having business dealings with prohibited countries, regions, individuals or entities.  This includes obligating issuers and acquirers to screen cardholders and merchants, respectively, against the SDN list.  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products in the United States, including consumer credit, deposit, payment and similar products.  13Table of ContentsCentral Bank Oversight.  Several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world that have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry are in some cases considering designating them as “systemically important payment systems” or “critical infrastructure.”  This includes the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) in the United States.  Such systems will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements.  To date, MasterCard has not been designated “systemically important.” Issuer Practice Regulation.  Our customers are subject to numerous regulations and investigations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in their capacity as issuers and otherwise, impacting MasterCard as a consequence.  Such regulations and investigations have been related to campus cards, bank overdraft practices, fees issuers charge to cardholders and transparency of terms and conditions.Regulation of Internet and Digital Transactions.  Various jurisdictions have enacted or have proposed regulation related to internet transactions.  For example, under the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act in the United States, payment transactions must be coded and blocked for certain types of Internet gambling transactions.  The legislation applies to payments system participants, including MasterCard and our U.S. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation.  We may also be impacted by evolving laws surrounding gambling, including fantasy sports.  Jurisdictions are also considering regulatory initiatives in digital-related areas that could impact us, such as cyber-security, copyright and trademark infringement and privacy.Additional Regulatory Developments.  Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues that could impact us, including evolving laws surrounding marijuana, prepaid payroll cards, virtual currencies, payment card add-on products, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly.SeasonalitySee “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Seasonality” in Part II, Item 7.Financial Information About Geographic AreasSee Note 21 (Segment Reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for certain geographic financial information.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 11,300 persons, of which approximately 6,200 were employed outside of the United States.  Additional InformationMasterCard Incorporated was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in May 2001.  We conduct our business principally through MasterCard Incorporated’s principal operating subsidiary, MasterCard International Incorporated (“MasterCard International”), a Delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in November 1966.  For more information about our capital structure, including our Class A common stock (our voting stock) and Class B common stock (our non-voting stock), see Note 13 (Stockholders’ Equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.Website and SEC ReportsThe Company’s internet address is www.mastercard.com.  From time to time, we may use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information.  Financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website.  In addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other information about MasterCard by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting “E-Mail Alerts” in the investor relations section of our corporate website.Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.14Table of ContentsITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSPayments Systems Legal and Regulatory ChallengesGlobal legal, regulatory and legislative focus on the payments industry may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations Interchange fees are generally the largest component of the costs that acquirers charge merchants in connection with the acceptance of payment cards.  Although we do not earn revenues from interchange fees, they are a factor on which we compete with other payment providers and therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we see on our cards.  We have historically set default interchange fees in the United States and certain other countries.  In some jurisdictions, however, interchange fees and related practices are subject to regulatory activity and litigation that have limited our ability to establish default rates.  Regulators and legislative bodies in a number of countries, as well as merchants, are seeking to reduce these fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank regulation and/or litigation.More broadly, regulators in several jurisdictions increasingly have been leveraging, or seeking to establish, the authority to regulate certain aspects of payments systems such as ours.  These regulations have, and could further result in, obligations or restrictions with respect to not only interchange fees but also the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards and other payment devices may be used, the way we structure and operate our business and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards.  These obligations and restrictions could be further increased as more jurisdictions impose oversight of payment systems.  Examples of activity related to interchange fees and payments systems include:•The European Union adopted legislation in 2015 regulating electronic payments issued and acquired within the European Economic Area, including caps on consumer credit and debit interchange fees and the separation of brand and processing.  See “Business-Recent Business and Legal/Regulatory Developments” in Part I, Item 1 for more details.     15Table of Contents•The European Commission issued a Statement of Objections in July 2015 related to our interregional interchange fees and central acquiring rules within the European Economic Area.   •Legislation regulating the level of domestic interchange fees has been enacted, or is being considered, in many jurisdictions.  These jurisdictions include Australia, where the Reserve Bank of Australia has proposed further reductions to debit interchange, as well as interchange fee caps on commercial and cross-border transactions. •Several jurisdictions have created or granted authority to create new regulatory bodies that either have or would have the authority to regulate payment systems, including the United Kingdom and India (which have designated us as a payments system subject to regulation), as well as Brazil, Mexico and Russia. Additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees and impact acceptance rules through litigation.  Such litigation includes individual and/or class action suits filed by merchants against MasterCard, Visa and our customers in the United States and Canada, as well as claims filed by retailers against MasterCard in the United Kingdom and other European jusrisdictions.  See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding litigation, proceedings and inquiries related to interchange fees.If issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers will be unable to use interchange fees to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services.  This could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary three-party networks or other forms of payment more attractive.  Issuers could also choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability.  In addition, issuers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them.  This could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings.  We are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity.  The potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on MasterCard relative to its competitors.  If we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  In addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in MasterCard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages.Additionally, increased focus by jurisdictions on regulating payment systems may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance.  Moreover, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation.  In order to successfully compete in such an environment, we and our customers would each need to adjust our strategies accordingly.Limitations on our ability to restrict merchant surcharging could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. We have historically implemented policies, referred to as no-surcharge rules, in certain regions, including the United States, that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using MasterCard products instead of other means.  Authorities in several jurisdictions have acted to end or limit the application of these no-surcharge rules (or indicated interest in doing so).  Additionally, pursuant to the terms of settlement of the U.S. merchant class litigation, we have modified our no-surcharge rules to permit U.S. merchants to surcharge credit cards, subject to certain limitations.  It is possible that over time merchants in some or all merchant categories in these jurisdictions may choose to surcharge as permitted by the rule change.  This could result in consumers viewing our products less favorably and/or using alternative means of payment instead of electronic products, which could result in a decrease in our overall transaction volumes, and which in turn could materially and adversely impact our results of operations.Current regulatory activity could be extended to additional jurisdictions or products, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  Regulators around the world increasingly look at each other’s approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. In some areas, such as interchange fees, we believe that regulators are increasingly cooperating on their approaches.  Consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions.  For example, a decision in Europe related to interchange fees could increase the possibility of additional competition authorities in European member states opening interchange fee proceedings.  Similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product.  For example, regulations affecting debit transactions could lead to regulation of other products (such as credit). 16Table of ContentsAs a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involving other products, affecting our business.  These include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements.  Conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect.  Either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.Preferential or Protective Government Actions Preferential and protective government actions related to domestic payment services could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. Governments in some countries, such as China, Russia and India, have acted, or in the future may act, to provide resources, preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or have created, or may in the future create, their own national provider.  This action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies, and may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers.  For example:•Governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies.  In particular, Russia has amended its National Payments Systems laws to require all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch.  As a result, all MasterCard domestic transactions in Russia are now processed by that system instead of by MasterCard. •Regional groups of countries, such as the Gulf Cooperation Countries in the Middle East and a number of countries in South East Asia, are considering, or may consider, efforts to restrict our participation in the processing of regional transactions.  Such developments would prevent, and in Russia have prevented, us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for domestic or regional customers.  Our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed.  This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand.Privacy, Data Protection and Security Regulation of privacy, data protection and security could increase our costs, as well as negatively impact our growth. We are subject to regulations related to privacy, data protection and information security in the jurisdictions in which we do business.  These regulations could result in negative impacts to our business.  As we continue to develop products and services to meet the needs of a changing marketplace, we may expand our information profile through the collection of additional data across multiple channels.  This expansion could amplify the impact of these regulations on our business.   Regulation of privacy and data protection and information security may require changes to our data  practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal and sensitive information.  In addition, due to the European Court of Justice’s recent invalidation of the Safe Harbor treaty, we may be subject to enhanced compliance and operational requirements in the European Union.  Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and requirements could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall business, as well as have an impact on our reputation.  New requirements in these areas, either from new regulations  or laws or any additions or changes (as well as the manner in which they could be interpreted or applied) may also increase our costs and could impact aspects of our business such as fraud monitoring, the development of information-based products and solutions and technology operations.  In addition, these requirements may increase the costs to our customers of issuing payment products, which may, in turn, decrease the number of our cards and other payment devices that they issue.  Moreover, due to recent account data compromise events at large, U.S.-based retailers, as well as the disclosure of the monitoring activities by certain governmental agencies, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny around the world that could lead to further regulation and requirements.  Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 17Table of ContentsRegulation Related to Our Participation in the Payments IndustryRegulations affecting the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. We are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many jurisdictions in which our cards and other devices are used.  In particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions, and, consequently, we are at times affected by such regulations.  Regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years.  See “Business-Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation.  Examples include:•Anti-Money Laundering and Economic Sanctions - We are subject to AML laws and regulations, including the USA Patriot Act in the United States, as well as the various economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on OFAC sanctions lists (including the SDN List).  We have policies, procedures and controls designed to comply with applicable AML and OFAC sanctions requirements.  We take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with OFAC sanctions, including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against OFAC sanctions lists.  However, despite these measures, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system.  Activity such as money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action, and our reputation may suffer due to our customer’s association with those countries, persons or entities or the existence of any such transaction.  Any enforcement action or reputational damage could reduce the use and acceptance of our products and/or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business.  In addition, geopolitical events and resulting OFAC sanctions could lead jurisdictions affected by those sanctions to take actions in response that could adversely affect our business.  For example, in response to the global sanctions imposed as a result of the Ukraine conflict, the Russian government amended its National Payments Systems laws requiring all payment systems to process domestic transactions through a government-owned payment switch.  There is a risk that in the future other jurisdictions (or their sympathizers) may take similar or other actions in response to sanctions that could negatively impact us.•Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) - In the United States, the CFPB could regulate consumer financial products, including amending existing requirements or imposing new ones.  The CFPB also has supervisory and independent examination authority as well as enforcement authority over certain financial institutions, their service providers, and other entities, which could include us due to our processing of credit, debit and prepaid transactions.  It is not clear whether and/or to what extent the CFPB will regulate broader aspects of payment card networks.•Increased Central Bank Oversight - Several central banks or similar regulatory bodies around the world that have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the electronic payments industry  are in some cases considering designating them as “systemically important payment systems” or “critical infrastructure.”  If MasterCard were designated “systemically important” in a particular jurisdiction, it would be subject to new regulations relating to its payment, clearing and settlement activities, which could address areas such as risk management policies and procedures; collateral requirements; participant default policies and procedures; the ability to complete timely clearing and settlement of financial transactions; and capital and financial resource requirements.  Also, MasterCard could be required to obtain prior approval for changes to its system rules, procedures or operations that could materially affect the level of risk presented by that payments system.•Issuer Practice Legislation and Regulation - Our financial institution customers are subject to numerous regulations, which impact us as a consequence.  Existing or new regulations in these or other areas may diminish the attractiveness of our products to our customers.•Regulation of Internet and Digital Transactions - Proposed legislation in various jurisdictions relating to Internet gambling and other digital areas such as cyber-security, copyright, trademark infringement and privacy could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our customers, including requiring us or our customers to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions.Increased regulatory focus on us, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may result in costly compliance burdens and/or may otherwise increase our costs.  Similarly, increased regulatory focus on our customers may cause such customers to reduce the volume of transactions processed through our systems.  Finally, failure to comply with the laws and regulations discussed above to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties.  Each may individually or collectively materially and adversely affect our financial performance and/or our overall business and results of operations, as well as have an impact on our reputation.18Table of ContentsCompetition Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. The global payments industry is highly competitive.  Our payment programs compete against all forms of payment, including cash and checks; electronic, mobile and e-commerce payment platforms; cryptocurrencies; ACH payment services; and other payments networks, which can have several competitive impacts on our business:•Within the global general purpose payments industry, we face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide from systems such as Visa, American Express, Discover, UnionPay, JCB and PayPal among others.  •In certain jurisdictions, including the United States, Visa has greater volume, scale and market share than we do, which may provide significant competitive advantages.  Visa has also announced its purchase of Visa Europe, which will create a global company that may provide Visa with additional competitive advantages.   •Some of our traditional competitors, as well as alternative payment service providers, may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have.  •Our ability to compete may also be affected by the outcomes of litigation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, central bank activity and legislative activity.Certain of our competitors, including American Express, Discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate three-party payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers.  These competitors may derive competitive advantages from their business models:  •Operators of three-party payments systems tend to have greater control over consumer and merchant customer service than operators of four-party payments systems such as ours, in which we must typically rely on our issuing and acquiring financial institution customers.  Our inability to control end-to-end processing may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions.•Even when competitors operate programs that utilize a four-party system, these competitors have generally not attracted the same level of regulatory or legislative scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as have operators of four-party payments systems such as ours.  If we continue to attract more regulatory scrutiny than these competitors because we operate a four-party system, or we are regulated because of the system we operate in a way in which our competitors are not, we could lose business to these competitors.  See “Business-Competition” in Part I, Item 1.If we are not able to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, drive value for our customers and/or effectively align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively against these threats.  Our competitors may also more effectively introduce their own innovative programs and services that adversely impact our growth.  We also compete against new entrants that have developed alternative payments systems, e-commerce payments systems and payments systems for mobile devices, as well as physical store locations.  A number of these new entrants rely principally on the Internet to support their services and may enjoy lower costs than we do, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. Disintermediation from stakeholders both within and outside of the payments value chain could harm our business. As the payments industry continues to develop and change, we face disintermediation and related risks, including:•Parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position as an intermediary in the payment process.  For example, merchants could process (and in some cases are processing) transactions directly with issuers.  Additionally, processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers.  Large scale consolidation within processors could result in these processors developing bilateral agreements or in some cases processing the entire transaction on their own network, thereby disintermediating us.   19Table of Contents•Large digital companies and other technology companies that leverage our technology, platforms and network to deliver their products could develop platforms or networks that disintermediate us from digital payments and impact our ability to compete as physical and digital payments converge. •Competitors, customers, large digital and other technology companies, governments and other industry participants may develop products that compete with or replace value-added products and services we currently provide to support our transaction switching and payment offerings.  These products could replace our own processing and payments offerings or could force us to change our pricing or practices for these offerings. •Participants in the payments industry may merge, create joint ventures or form other business combinations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services.  Our failure to compete effectively against any of the foregoing competitive threats could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.Continued intense pricing pressure may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In order to increase transaction volumes, enter new markets and expand our MasterCard-branded cards and enabled payment devices, we seek to enter into business agreements with customers through which we offer incentives, pricing discounts and other support that promote our products.  In order to stay competitive, we may have to increase the amount of these incentives and pricing discounts.  Over the past several years, we have experienced continued pricing pressure.  The demand from our customers for better pricing arrangements and greater rebates and incentives moderates our growth.  We may not be able to continue our expansion strategy to process additional transaction volumes or to provide additional services to our customers at levels sufficient to compensate for such lower fees or increased costs in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  In addition, increased pressure on prices increases the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those relating to customer incentives.  We may not succeed in these efforts.In the future, we may not be able to enter into agreements with our customers on terms that we consider favorable, and we may be required to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships and to compete with others in the industry.  Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and accordingly may be able to charge lower prices to our customers.  In addition, to the extent that we offer discounts or incentives under such agreements, we will need to further increase transaction volumes or the amount of services provided thereunder in order to benefit incrementally from such agreements and to increase revenue and profit, and we may not be successful in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment.  Our customers also may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment product marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability.  These factors could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.TechnologyRapid and significant technological developments and changes could negatively impact our results of operations or limit our future growth. The payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, which can impact our business in several ways:•Technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, contactless and mobile payments, e-commerce and cryptocurrency and block chain technology, could result in new technologies that may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services.  Moreover, these changes could result in new and innovative payment methods and programs that could place us at a competitive disadvantage and that could reduce the use of MasterCard products.•We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies.  The inability of these companies to keep pace with technological developments, or the acquisition of these companies by competitors, could negatively impact MasterCard offerings.  •Our ability to develop and adopt new services and technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide solutions and standards (such as those related to EMV, tokenization or other safety and security technologies), and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes.  20Table of Contents•Our ability to develop evolving systems and products may be inhibited by any difficulty we may experience in attracting and retaining technology experts. •Our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties.  We have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement.  Such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees.  •We work with large digital companies and other technology companies that use our technology to enhance payment safety and security and to deliver their payment-related products and services quickly and efficiently to consumers.  Our inability to keep pace technologically could negatively impact the willingness of these customers to work with us, and could encourage them to use their own technology and compete against us.  We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business, and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards.  Failure to keep pace with these technological developments or otherwise bring to market products that reflect these technologies could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.Information Security and Service Disruptions Information security failures or breaches could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. Information security risks for payments and technology companies such as MasterCard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties.  These threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure.  These threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches.Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks.  Our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations.  In addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control.  We routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks.  Because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks.  Additionally, geopolitical events and resulting government activity could also lead to information security threats and attacks by affected jurisdictions and their sympathizers.To date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches.  However, if one or more of these events occurs, it could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services which could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises.  Such events could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties.  Any actual attacks could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to MasterCard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities.  If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded.We maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage (each reviewed by our Board of Directors and its Audit Committee), and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks.  We also periodically test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities.  Despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer losses in the future.  Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of MasterCard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third-21Table of Contentsparty vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities.  As a result, information security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us.  As cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.  Any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.Service disruptions that cause us to be unable to process transactions or service our customers could materially affect our results of operations. Our transaction processing systems and other offerings may experience interruptions as a result of a disaster, including, but not limited to, technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events.  Our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems.  A disaster that occurs at, or in the vicinity of, our primary and/or back-up facilities in any global location could interrupt our services. Although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks.Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network.  Inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets.  If one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services.  Because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially reduce our results of operations.CustomersLosing a significant portion of business from one or more of our largest customers could lead to significant revenue decreases in the longer term, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. Most of our customer relationships are not exclusive and may be terminated by our customers.  Our customers can reassess their commitments to us at any time in the future and/or develop their own competitive services.  Accordingly, our business agreements with these customers may not reduce the risk inherent in our business that customers may terminate their relationships with us in favor of relationships with our competitors, or for other reasons, or might not meet their contractual obligations to us.In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is concentrated among our five largest customers.  Loss of business from any of our large customers could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  Exclusive/near exclusive relationships certain customers have with our competitors may have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain customers have exclusive, or nearly-exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment products, and these relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to do significant amounts of business with them to increase our revenues.  In addition, these customers may be more successful and may grow faster than the customers that primarily issue our cards, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.  Furthermore, we earn substantial revenue from customers with nearly-exclusive relationships with our competitors.  Such relationships could provide advantages to the customers to shift business from us to the competitors with which they are principally aligned.  A significant loss of our existing revenue or transaction volumes from these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business.Consolidation in the banking industry could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. The banking industry has undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation in the past.  Consolidations have included customers with a substantial MasterCard portfolio being acquired by institutions with a strong relationship with a competitor.  If significant consolidation among customers were to continue, it could result in the substantial loss of business for us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects.  In addition, one or more of our customers could seek to merge with, or acquire, one of our competitors, and any such transaction could also have a material adverse impact on our overall business.  Consolidation could also produce a smaller number of large customers, which could increase their bargaining power and lead to lower prices and/or more favorable terms for our customers.  These developments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.22Table of ContentsStakeholdersOur failure to maintain our relationships with issuers and acquirers may materially and adversely affect our business. While we work directly with many stakeholders in the payments system, including merchants, governments and large digital companies and other technology companies, we are, and will continue to be, significantly dependent on our relationships with our issuers and acquirers and their further relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services.  We do not issue cards or other payment devices, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates or other fees charged to cardholders using our products.  Each issuer determines these and most other competitive payment program features.  In addition, we do not establish the discount rate that merchants are charged for acceptance, which is the responsibility of our acquiring customers.  As a result, our business significantly depends on the continued success and competitiveness of our issuing and acquiring customers and the strength of our relationships with them.  In turn, our customers’ success depends on a variety of factors over which we have little or no influence.  If our customers become financially unstable, we may lose revenue or we may be exposed to settlement risk.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Settlement Risk” in this Part I,  with respect to payments industry regulation, including interchange fees.  The continued focus of merchants on the costs of accepting various forms of payment, including in connection with the growth of digital payments, may lead to additional litigation and regulatory proceedings.Merchants are also able to negotiate incentives from us and pricing concessions from our issuer and acquirer customers as a condition to accepting our payment cards and devices.  As merchants consolidate and become even larger, we may have to increase the amount of incentives that we provide to certain merchants, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the costs of these incentives.  Additionally, if the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows our business could suffer.Our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. As we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments.  These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:•Governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies.  Changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services.  23Table of Contents•Our work with governments subjects us to U.S. and international anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.  A violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact.  •Working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government.  Any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation.Settlement and Third-Party Obligation RiskOur role as guarantor exposes us to risk of loss or illiquidity. As a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity:  •We may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons.  •If a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of MasterCard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss.  •Although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds.Our gross settlement exposure for our brands was approximately $40 billion as of December 31, 2015.While we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day (including the availability of our revolving credit facility), are able to seek assignment of underlying receivables from a failed customer and may charge customers for settlement incurred during MasterCard’s ordinary course activities, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited.  As a result:•Concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business and liquidity.  •Even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.These conditions subject us to increased risk that we may have to perform under our settlement guarantees.  For more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices, see Note 19 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8. Separately, MasterCard also provides guarantees to certain customers and other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from our failure to perform with respect to our products and services or the failure of third parties to perform.  Any significant indemnification obligation which we owe to any such customers or other companies could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.Global Economic and Political EnvironmentGlobal financial market activity could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. Adverse economic trends (including distress in financial markets, turmoil in specific economies around the world and additional government intervention) have impacted the environment in which we operate.  The condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance.  Such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following:•Our customers may Ørestrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults,24Table of ContentsØimplement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability, andØdefault on their settlement obligations, including as a result of sovereign defaults, causing a liquidity crisis for our other customers.•Consumer spending can be negatively impacted by Ødeclining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery, which can change cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent, and Ølow levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment. •Government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products.•Tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility.Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.A decline in cross-border activity could adversely affect our results of operations. We process substantially all cross-border transactions using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction switching fees.  Revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers’ need for transactions to be converted into their base currency.  Cross-border activity may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions.  These include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases.  Any such decline in cross-border activity could adversely affect our results of operations.Negative trends in consumer spending could negatively impact our results of operations. The global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending.  General economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our payment cards and devices.  Also, as we are headquartered in the United States, a negative perception of the United States could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business.Adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. During 2015, approximately 61% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the United States.  This revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues.  Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income.  Our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies. In addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar.  If the U.S. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected.  Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars.The occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 25Table of ContentsReputational Impact Brand perception may materially and adversely affect our overall business. Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business.  The ability to attract consumers to our branded products and retain them depends upon the external perception of us and our industry.  Our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands.  From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as “predatory”.  Additionally, large digital companies and other technology companies who are our customers use our network to build their own acceptance brands, which could cause consumer confusion and decrease the value of our brand.  Moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny.  We have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace.  Under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, could also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands.  Such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business.Account data breaches could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. We, our issuers and acquirers, merchants and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards and devices.  In addition, our customers may sponsor (or we may certify as PCI-compliant) third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use.  A breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage our reputation and lead to claims against us, as well as subject us to regulatory actions.  We routinely encounter account data compromise events, some of which have been high profile, involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affect millions of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, American Express and other types of cardholders.  These events typically involve external agents hacking the merchants’ or third-party processors’ systems and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of those systems.  Further data security breaches may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands.  Damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices, as well as the trend toward electronic payments, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us.In addition to reputational concerns, while most of the lawsuits resulting from account data breaches do not involve direct claims against us, we could face damage claims in various circumstances, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Fraudulent activity could damage our reputation and encourage regulatory intervention, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud.  Cards that use magnetic-stripe technology, the most widely-used payment technology in the United States, continue to raise heightened vulnerabilities to fraud relative to other technologies due to the static nature of the information on the magnetic stripe.  Fraud is also more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as online commerce, which constitutes an increasing percentage of transactions.  In addition, as outsourcing and specialization become commonplace in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards.  Increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct or negligence by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business.Acquisitions Acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation. Although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate them.  In addition, such an integration may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations.  26Table of ContentsMoreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue.  To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders.  Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition.  Any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements.  Our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage.  Although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions.LitigationLiabilities we may incur for any litigation that has been or may be brought against us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  We are a defendant on a number of civil litigations and regulatory proceedings and investigations, including among others, those alleging violations of competition and antitrust law and those involving intellectual property clams.  See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings.  In the event we are found liable in any material litigations or proceedings, particularly in the event we may be found liable in a large class-action lawsuit or on the basis of an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages or under which we were jointly and severally liable, we could be subject to significant damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.Limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. Certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation and litigation settlements, such as changes to our no-surcharge rule in the United States.  Any future limitations on our business resulting from litigation or litigation settlements could reduce the volume of business that we do with our customers, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. Class A Common Stock and Governance StructureProvisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions and have an impact on change-in-control. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could be considered anti-takeover provisions, including provisions that could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable.  These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price.  For example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the Class A common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power.  In addition:•our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors;•our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent;•a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws; and•any representative of a competitor of MasterCard or of the Foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors.The Foundation’s substantial stock ownership, and restrictions on its sales, may impact corporate actions or acquisition proposals favorable to, or favored by, the other public stockholders.As of February 4, 2016, the Foundation owned 115,446,594 shares of Class A common stock, representing approximately 10.6% of our general voting power.  The Foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of Class A common stock prior to April 27Table of Contents26, 2026, except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted.  The directors of the Foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers.  The ownership of Class A common stock by the Foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the Class A common stock.  In addition, because the Foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. ITEM 1B