 of this Report. Payment Services and SolutionsWe provide transaction processing and a wide range of payment-related products and services to enable the design, packaging and implementation of our products and programs.  Our payment solutions are built upon our expertise in payment programs, product 4Table of Contentsdevelopment, payment processing technology, loyalty and rewards solutions, payment security, consulting and information services and marketing.  Our Operations and Transaction Processing Network Introduction.  We operate the MasterCard Network, our unique and proprietary global payments network that links issuers and acquirers around the globe to facilitate the processing of transactions, permitting MasterCard cardholders to use their cards and other payment devices at millions of merchants worldwide.  Our network facilitates an efficient and secure means for merchants to receive payments, and a convenient, quick and secure payment method for consumers and businesses that is accepted worldwide.  We process transactions through our network for our issuer customers in more than 150 currencies in more than 210 countries and territories.  Typical Transaction.  With a typical transaction involving four participants in addition to us, our network supports what is often referred to as a “four-party” payments network.  The following diagram depicts a typical point-of-interaction transaction:In a typical transaction, a cardholder (or an account holder who may not be using a physical card) purchases goods or services from a merchant using a card or other payment device.  After the transaction is authorized by the issuer, the issuer pays the acquirer an amount equal to the value of the transaction, minus the interchange fee (described below), and then posts the transaction to the cardholder's account.  The acquirer pays the amount of the purchase, net of a discount (referred to as the “merchant discount” rate, as further described below), to the merchant.  The merchant discount rate, among other things, takes into consideration the amount of the interchange fee.   Interchange Fees.  Interchange fees represent a sharing of a portion of payments system costs among the issuers and acquirers participating in our four-party payments system.  They reflect the value merchants receive from accepting our products and play a key role in balancing the costs consumers and merchants pay.  We  do not earn revenues from interchange fees.  Generally, interchange fees are collected from acquirers and paid to issuers to reimburse the issuers for a portion of the costs incurred by them in providing services that benefit all participants in the system, including acquirers and merchants.  In some circumstances, such as cash withdrawal transactions, this situation is reversed and interchange fees are paid by issuers to acquirers.  We or financial institutions establish “default interchange fees” that apply when there are no other established settlement terms in place between an issuer and an acquirer.  We administer the collection and remittance of interchange fees through the settlement process.  Interchange fees can be a significant component of the merchant discount rate, and therefore of the costs that merchants pay to accept electronic payments.  These fees are currently subject to regulatory, legislative and/or legal challenges in a number of jurisdictions.  See “Risk Factors-Legal and Regulatory Risks” in Part I,  of this Report. Interchange Fees.  Interchange fees associated with four-party payments systems like ours are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions around the world.  Examples include:•legislation to regulate interchange fees (such the Dodd-Frank Act in the United States and the legislation proposed by the European Commission in July 2013); •competition-related regulatory proceedings (such as the European Commission's December 2007 decision restricting our cross-border interchange fees, which is pending appeal, as well as proceedings in several jurisdictions, including several European Union member states); •central bank regulation (such as in Australia); and•litigation (such as the merchant litigations in the United States and private lawsuits in Canada and the United Kingdom).  For more detail, see our risk factors in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in Part I,  of this Report related to regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security.  Anti-Money Laundering.  MasterCard is subject to anti-money laundering (“AML”) laws and regulations, including the regulatory requirements of Section 352 of the USA PATRIOT Act.  We have implemented a comprehensive AML program designed to prevent our payment network from being used to facilitate money laundering and other illicit activity.  Our AML compliance program is comprised of policies, procedures and internal controls, including the designation of a compliance officer, and is designed to address these legal and regulatory requirements and assist in managing money laundering and terrorist financing risks.  Economic Sanctions.  We are subject to regulations imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) restricting financial transactions and other dealings with Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan and with persons and entities included in OFAC's list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (the “SDN List”).  Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan have been identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states.  We have no offices, subsidiaries or affiliated entities located in these countries and do not license financial institutions domiciled in these countries.  We have established a risk-based compliance program that includes policies, procedures and controls that are designed to prevent us from having business dealings with prohibited countries, individuals or entities.  This includes obligating issuers and acquirers to screen cardholders and merchants, respectively, against the SDN list.    Banking Agency Supervision.  We are or may be subject to regulations related to our role in the financial industry and our relationship with our financial institution customers.  Certain of our operations are periodically reviewed by the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council under its authority to examine financial institutions' technology service providers.  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Financial Stability Oversight Council.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) has significant authority to regulate consumer financial products in the United States, including consumer credit, deposit, payment, and similar products.  In addition, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) is tasked with, among other things, identifying payment, clearing and settlement systems in the United States that are “systemically important” under the applicable statutory standard.  Such systems will be subject to new regulation, supervision and examination requirements.  It is not entirely clear whether and/or to what extent the CFPB will regulate broader aspects of payment card network operations, and to date, MasterCard has not been designated “systemically important.”  See our risk factor in "Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks" in Part I,  related to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments or processing services in certain countries.  Issuer Practice Regulation.  Our customers are subject to numerous regulations and investigations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in their capacity as issuers and otherwise, impacting MasterCard as a consequence.  Such regulations and investigations have related to bank overdraft practices and issuance and other practices related to prepaid cards.    Regulation of Internet Transactions.  Under the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, payment transactions must be coded and blocked for certain types of Internet gambling transactions.  The legislation applies to payments system participants, including MasterCard and our U.S. customers, and is implemented through a federal regulation.  In addition, the U.S. Congress (and some states) continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in digital-related areas, such as cyber-security, copyright and trademark infringement and privacy.    13Table of ContentsAdditional Regulatory Developments.  Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including campus cards, virtual currencies, payment card add-on products, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact our customers directly.  SeasonalitySee “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Seasonality” in Part II, Item 7 of this Report.Financial Information About Geographic AreasSee Note 21 (Segment Reporting) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for certain geographic financial information.Employees   As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 8,200 persons, of which approximately 3,800 were employed outside of the United States.  We consider our relationship with employees to be good. Additional InformationMasterCard Incorporated was incorporated as a Delaware stock corporation in May 2001.  We conduct our business principally through MasterCard Incorporated's principal operating subsidiary, MasterCard International Incorporated (“MasterCard International”), a Delaware non-stock (or membership) corporation that was formed in November 1966.  In May 2006, we completed a plan for a new ownership and governance structure for MasterCard Incorporated (including an initial public offering of a new class of common stock (the “IPO”)).  For more information about our capital structure, including our Class A common stock (our voting stock) and Class B common stock (our non-voting stock), see Note 13 (Stockholders' Equity) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8.Website and SEC Reports The Company's internet address is www.mastercard.com.  From time to time, we may use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information.  Financial and other material information is routinely posted and accessible on the investor relations section of our corporate website.  In addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other information about MasterCard by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting “E-Mail Alerts” in the investor relations section of our corporate website. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, for review on the investor relations section of our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report. related to the impact of new regulations or other legislative or regulatory activity in one jurisdiction or of one product to other jurisdictions or other products.  Additionally, merchants are seeking to reduce interchange fees and impact acceptance rules through litigation.  Such litigation includes: •In the United States, merchants have filed approximately 50 class action or individual suits alleging that our interchange fees and acceptance rules violate federal antitrust laws.  These suits (the settlement of which has received final court approval) alleged, among other things, that our purported setting of interchange fees constitutes horizontal price-fixing between and among MasterCard and its customer banks, and MasterCard, Visa and their customer banks in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, which prohibits contracts, combinations or conspiracies that unreasonably restrain trade.  The suits sought treble damages, attorneys' fees and injunctive relief. 15Table of Contents•In Canada, a number of class action suits have been filed against MasterCard, Visa and a number of large Canadian banks relating to MasterCard and Visa interchange fees and rules related to interchange fees, including “honor all cards” and “no surcharge” rules. •In the United Kingdom, a number of retailers have filed claims against us for unspecified damages with respect to MasterCard’s cross-border interchange fees and its U.K. and Ireland domestic interchange fees.  See Note 18 (Legal and Regulatory Proceedings) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for more details regarding the allegations contained in these complaints and the status of these proceedings.If issuers cannot collect, or we are forced to reduce, interchange fees, issuers will be unable to use interchange fees to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services.  This could reduce the number of financial institutions willing to participate in our four-party payments system, lower overall transaction volumes, and/or make proprietary end-to-end networks or other forms of payment more attractive.  Issuers could also choose to charge higher fees to consumers to attempt to recoup a portion of the costs incurred for their services, thereby making our card programs less desirable to consumers and reducing our transaction volumes and profitability.  In addition, issuers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card and other payment programs by seeking a reduction in the fees that we charge to them.  This could also result in less innovation and fewer product offerings.  We are devoting substantial management and financial resources to the defense of interchange fees in regulatory proceedings, litigation and legislative activity.  The potential outcome of any legislative, regulatory or litigation action could have a more positive or negative impact on MasterCard relative to its competitors.  If we are ultimately unsuccessful in our defense of interchange fees, any such legislation, regulation and/or litigation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.  In addition, regulatory proceedings and litigation could result in MasterCard being fined and/or having to pay civil damages.   The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.   The Dodd-Frank Act enacted in the United States includes provisions that provide for the regulation by the Federal Reserve of debit and prepaid interchange fees and certain other network industry practices.  Among other things, it requires debit and prepaid “interchange transaction fees” (referred to in the Dodd-Frank Act as fees established, charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction) to be “reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction.”  Additionally, it provides that neither an issuer nor a payment card network may establish exclusive network arrangements for debit or prepaid cards or inhibit the ability of a merchant to choose among different networks for routing debit or prepaid transactions. The Federal Reserve regulations implementing these provisions limit per-transaction U.S. debit and prepaid interchange fees to 21 cents plus five basis points.  The issuer may receive a fraud prevention adjustment of an additional one cent if it meets certain requirements.  The regulations contain exemptions from the interchange limitations for issuers that, together with their affiliates, have less than $10 billion in assets, as well as for debit cards issued pursuant to a government-administered payment program and certain reloadable prepaid cards.  Also, while the regulations do not directly regulate network fees, they make clear that network fees cannot be used to circumvent the interchange fee restrictions.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in this Part I,  with respect to government actions that may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payment services in certain countries. As a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated in other jurisdictions or involving other products, affecting our business.  These include matters like interchange rates, network standards and network exclusivity and routing agreements.  Conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect.  Either of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. 17Table of ContentsGovernment actions preferring or protecting providers of domestic payment services in certain countries may prevent us from competing effectively against those providers, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues.  Governments in some countries, such as China, Russia, Ukraine and India could act (or have acted) to provide resources or preferential treatment or other protection to selected national payment and processing providers, or may otherwise create (or have created) and support its own national provider.  This action may displace us from, prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies.  As an example, governments in some countries are considering, or may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments either entirely in that country or by only domestic companies.  Such a development would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for customers.  Our efforts to effect change in, or work with, these countries may not succeed.  This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brand.  The payments industry is the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.  We are subject to regulations that affect the payments industry in the many countries in which our cards and other devices are used.  In particular, many of our customers are subject to regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by such regulations.  Regulation of the payments industry, including regulations applicable to us and our customers, has increased significantly in the last several years.  See “Business-Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 for a detailed description of such regulation and related legislation.  Examples include:  •Anti-Money Laundering and Economic Sanctions - We are subject to AML laws and regulations, including the USA Patriot Act in the United States, as well as the various economic sanctions programs administered by OFAC, including  restrictions on financial transactions with certain countries and with persons and entities included on the SDN List. We have policies, procedures and controls designed to comply with applicable AML and OFAC sanctions requirements.  We take measures to prevent transactions that do not comply with OFAC sanctions, including obligating our customers to screen cardholders and merchants against the SDN List.  However, despite these measures, it is possible that such transactions may be processed through our payments system.  Activity such as money laundering or terrorist financing involving our cards could result in an enforcement action, and our reputation may suffer due to our customer's association with those countries, persons or entities or the existence of any such transaction.  Any enforcement action or reputational damage could reduce the use and acceptance of our products and/or increase our costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business. •Retail Payment System Regulation - Authority of regulators in several countries to regulate certain aspects of payments systems under which MasterCard operates could result in obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our cards and other payment devices may be used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards.  Such obligations and restrictions could be further increased as more jurisdictions provide oversight of payment systems.  Moreover, if this oversight is used to provide resources or preferential treatment or protection to selected domestic payments and processing providers, it could displace us from, or prevent us from entering into, or substantially restrict us from participating in, particular geographies.  See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in this Part I,  with respect to interchange fees and related practices receiving significant and increasingly intense legal, regulatory and legislative scrutiny worldwide.  Also see our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Legal and Regulatory Risks” in this Part I,  with respect to how we guarantee certain third party obligations for further discussion.With the exception of the United States and a select number of other jurisdictions, most in-country (as opposed to cross-border) transactions conducted using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus cards are authorized, cleared and settled by our customers or other processors.  Because we do not provide domestic processing services in these countries and do not, as described above, have direct relationships with cardholders, we depend on our close working relationships with our customers to effectively manage our brands, and the perception of our payments system, among consumers in these countries. We also rely on these customers to help manage our brands and perception among regulators and merchants in these countries, alongside our own relationships with them.  From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our payments system overall, which may materially and adversely impact our business.  If our customers' actions cause significant negative perception of the global payments industry or our brands, cardholders may reduce the usage of our programs, which could reduce our revenues and negatively impact our results of operations.  In addition, our competitors may process a greater percentage of domestic transactions in jurisdictions outside the United States than we do.  As a result, our inability to control the end-to-end processing on cards and other payment devices carrying our brands in many markets may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to maintain transaction integrity or introduce value-added programs and services that are dependent upon us processing the underlying transactions.  We rely on the continuing expansion of merchant acceptance of our products and programs.  Although our business strategy is to invest in strengthening our brands and expanding our acceptance network, there can be no guarantee that our efforts in these areas will continue to be successful.  If the rate of merchant acceptance growth slows or reverses itself, our business could suffer. The marketplace's perception of our brands and reputation may materially and adversely affect our overall business.  Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business.  The ability to attract and retain cardholders to our branded products depends highly upon the external perception of us and our industry.  Our business may be affected by actions taken by our customers that impact the perception of our brands.  From time to time, our customers may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as “predatory”.  Moreover, adverse developments with respect to our industry or the industries of our customers may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny.  We have also been pursuing the use of social media channels at an increasingly rapid pace.  Under some circumstances, our use of social media, or the use of social media by others as a channel for criticism or other purposes, 22Table of Contentscould also cause rapid, widespread reputational harm to our brands.  Such perception and damage to our reputation could have a material and adverse effect to our overall business.   Our work with governments exposes us to unique risks that could have a material impact on our business and results of operations.As we increase our work with national, state and local governments, both indirectly through financial institutions and with them directly as our customers, we may face various risks inherent in associating or contracting directly with governments.  These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:•Governmental entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies.  Changes in governmental priorities or other political developments, including disruptions in governmental operations, could impact approved funding and result in changes in the scope, or lead to the termination of, the arrangements or contracts we or financial institutions enter into with respect to our payment products and services.  •Our work with governments subjects us to U.S. and international anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.  A violation and subsequent judgment or settlement under these laws could subject us to substantial monetary penalties and damages and have a significant reputational impact.  •Working or contracting with governments, either directly or via our financial institution customers, can subject us to heightened reputational risks, including extensive scrutiny and publicity, as well as a potential association with the policies of a government as a result of a business arrangement with that government.  Any negative publicity or negative association with a government entity, regardless of its accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation.Global economic events in financial markets have directly affected, and may continue to affect, many of our customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations.     The competitive and evolving nature of the global payments industry provides both challenges to and opportunities for the continued growth of our business.  Adverse economic events (including continued distress in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility and additional government intervention) have impacted the financial markets around the world.  The economies of the United States and numerous countries around the world have been significantly impacted by this economic turmoil.  Countries have experienced credit ratings actions by rating agencies, including several in Europe as well as the United States.  In addition, some existing customers have been placed in receivership or administration or have a significant amount of their stock owned by their governments.  Many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential further changes in laws and regulations.  Many of our financial institution customers, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely impacted.  MasterCard's financial results may be negatively impacted by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies.  The condition of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance.  Such impact may include, but is not limited to, the following:•Declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors, such as cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues is dependent.•Low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders. •Debt limit and budgetary discussions in the United States could affect the United States’ credit rating and could affect consumer confidence and spending. •Our customers may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate increasing cardholder defaults.•Uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our customers' businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets less predictable.•Our customers may implement cost reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or greater cost stability.•Our customers may decrease spending for value-added services.23Table of Contents•Government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations and/or government investments in our customers, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with customers or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products.•Tightening of credit availability could impact the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility.•Our customers may default on their settlement obligations, including as a result of sovereign defaults, causing a liquidity crisis for our other customers.  See Note 19 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report for further discussion of our settlement exposure.•Our overall business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by consolidation of our customers. See our risk factor in “Risk Factors - Business Risks” in this Part I, Item 1A with respect to additional consolidation for further discussion. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our overall business and results of operations. A decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our results of operations, as a significant portion of our revenue is generated from cross-border transactions.  We process substantially all cross-border transactions using MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded cards and generate a significant amount of revenue from cross-border volume fees and transaction processing fees.  Revenue from processing cross-border and currency conversion transactions for our customers fluctuates with cross-border travel and our customers' need for transactions to be converted into their base currency.  Cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic, weather and other conditions.  These include the threat of terrorism and outbreaks of flu, viruses and other diseases.  Any such decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our results of operations.  General economic and global political conditions may adversely affect trends in consumer spending, which may materially and adversely impact our results of operations.  The global payments industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending.  General economic conditions (such as unemployment, housing and changes in interest rates) and other political conditions (such as devaluation of currencies and government restrictions on consumer spending, as well as the impact of events in the United States such as deadlines on the debt limit) in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions involving our payment cards and devices.  Also, as we are principally based in the United States, a negative perception of the United States could impact the perception of our company, which could adversely affect our business.As a guarantor of certain third-party obligations, including those of principal customers and affiliate debit licensees, we are exposed to risk of loss or illiquidity.   We may incur obligations in connection with transaction settlements if an issuer or acquirer fails to fund its daily settlement obligations due to technical problems, liquidity shortfalls, insolvency or other reasons.  If a principal customer or affiliate debit licensee of MasterCard is unable to fulfill its settlement obligations to other customers, we may bear the loss.  In addition, although we are not obligated to do so, we may elect to keep merchants whole if an acquirer defaults on its merchant payment obligations, or to keep prepaid cardholders whole if an issuer defaults on its obligation to safeguard unspent prepaid funds.  Our MasterCard, Maestro and Cirrus-branded gross legal settlement exposure, which is primarily estimated using the average daily card volume during the quarter multiplied by the estimated number of days to settle, was approximately $41 billion as of December 31, 2013.  We have a revolving credit facility in the amount of $3 billion which could be used for general corporate purposes, including to provide liquidity in the event of one or more settlement failures by our customers.  In the event that MasterCard effects a payment on behalf of a failed customer, MasterCard may seek an assignment of the underlying receivables from the failed customer.  Subject to approval by our Board of Directors, customers may be charged for the amount of any settlement loss incurred during these ordinary course activities of MasterCard.  While we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure by our largest customer on its peak day, the term and amount of our guarantee of obligations to principal customers is unlimited.  As a result, concurrent settlement failures of more than one of our larger customers or of several of our smaller customers either on a given day or over a condensed period of time may exceed our available resources and could materially and adversely affect our overall business. In addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may not be able to recover the cost of such a payment and may therefore be exposed to significant losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Moreover, during 2013, many of our financial institution customers continued to be directly and adversely impacted by adverse economic events in the global financial markets.  These conditions present increased risk that we may have to perform 24Table of Contentsunder our settlement guarantees.  For more information on our settlement exposure and risk assessment and mitigation practices as of December 31, 2013, see Note 19 (Settlement and Other Risk Management) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Report.  Separately, MasterCard also provides guarantees to certain customers and other companies indemnifying them from losses stemming from our failure to perform with respect to our products and services or the failure of third parties to perform.  Any significant indemnification obligation which we owe to any such customers or other companies could materially and adversely affect our overall business and results of operations.A failure or breach of our security systems or infrastructure as a result of cyber-attacks could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.  Information security risks for payments and technology companies such as MasterCard have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties.  These threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of our employees or third parties, or may result from human error or accidental technological failure. These threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches.  Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks.  Our customers and other parties in the payments value chain, as well as our cardholders, rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations.  In addition, to access our products and services, our customers and cardholders increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control.  We routinely are subject to cyber-threats and our technologies, systems and networks have been subject to cyber-attacks.  Because of our position in the payments value chain, we believe that we are likely to continue to be a target of such threats and attacks.  To date, we have not experienced any material impact relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches.  However, if one or more of these events occurs, it could lead to security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services which could result in the unauthorized disclosure, release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information (including account data information) or data security compromises.  Such events could also cause service interruptions, malfunctions or other failures in the physical infrastructure or operations systems that support our businesses and customers (such as the lack of availability of our value-added systems), as well as the operations of our customers or other third parties.  Any actual attacks could lead to damage to our reputation with our customers and other parties and the market, additional costs to MasterCard (such as repairing systems, adding new personnel or protection technologies or compliance costs), regulatory penalties, financial losses to both us and our customers and partners and the loss of customers and business opportunities.  If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded.We maintain an information security program, a business continuity program and insurance coverage, and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection, in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks.  We also test our systems to discover and address any potential vulnerabilities.  Despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer losses in the future.  Our risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of MasterCard and our role in the global payments and technology industries, our plans to continue to implement our digital and mobile channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers and cardholders when and how they want to be served, our global presence, our extensive use of third party vendors and future joint venture and merger and acquisition opportunities.  As a result, cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us.  As cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.  Any of the risks described above could materially adversely affect our overall business and results of operations. If our transaction processing systems and other services are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions or service our customers efficiently or at all, our results of operations would be materially reduced. Our transaction processing systems and other key service offerings may experience interruptions as a result of a disaster including, but not limited to, technology malfunctions, fire, weather events, power outages, telecommunications disruptions, terrorism, workplace violence, accidents or other catastrophic events.  Our visibility in the global payments industry may also put us at greater risk of attack by terrorists, activists, or hackers who intend to disrupt our facilities and/or systems.  A disaster that occurs 25Table of Contentsat, or in the vicinity of, our primary and/or back-up facilities in any global location could interrupt our services. Although we maintain a business continuity program to analyze risk, assess potential impacts, and develop effective response strategies, we cannot ensure that our business would be immune to these risks.  Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network.  Inadequate infrastructure in lesser-developed markets could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those markets.  If one of our service providers fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services.  Because of the intrinsic importance of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of the reliability of products carrying our brands and materially reduce our results of operations.   Account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted by us or third parties could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.  We, our issuers and acquirers, merchants and other third parties process, transmit or store cardholder account and other information in connection with payment cards and devices.  In addition, our customers may sponsor (or we may certify as PCI-compliant) third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands and merchants may use third parties to provide services related to card use.  A breach of the systems on which sensitive cardholder data and account information are processed, transmitted or stored could lead to fraudulent activity involving cards carrying our brands, damage our reputation and lead to claims against us, as well as subject us to regulatory actions.  We routinely encounter account data compromise events, some of which have been high profile, involving merchants and third-party payment processors that process, store or transmit payment card data, which affect millions of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, American Express and other types of cardholders.  These events typically involve external agents hacking the merchants’ or third-party processors’ systems and installing malware to compromise the confidentiality and integrity of those systems.  Further data security breaches may subject us to reputational damage and/or lawsuits involving payment cards carrying our brands.  While most of these lawsuits do not involve direct claims against us, we could face damage claims in various circumstances, which, if upheld, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Damage to our reputation or that of our brands resulting from an account data breach of either our systems or the systems of our customers, merchants and other third parties could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices, as well as the trend toward electronic payments, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our transaction volumes, results of operations and prospects for future growth, or increase our costs by leading to additional regulatory burdens being imposed upon us.An increase in fraudulent activity using our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and/or regulatory intervention, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards and other payment devices.  Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting or other fraud.  As outsourcing and specialization become commonplace in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our cards.  In addition, fraud is more likely to occur in transactions where the card is not present, such as e-commerce and mobile commerce transactions, which are becoming increasingly prominent. Increased fraud levels involving our cards, or misconduct or negligence by third parties processing or otherwise servicing our cards, could lead to regulatory intervention, such as enhanced security requirements, as well as damage to our reputation, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or increase our compliance costs, and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business.  Rapid technological developments in our industry present both operational and legal challenges (including potential intellectual property exposure) which could impact our results of operations or limit our future growth.  The payments industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including continuing developments of technologies in the areas of smart cards and devices, radio frequency and proximity payment devices (such as contactless payment devices), electronic commerce and mobile commerce, among others.  We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business.  We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies.  We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our programs and services.  In addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards and by resistance from customers or merchants to such changes by the complexity of our systems.  Our ability to adopt these technologies can also be inhibited by intellectual property rights of third parties.  We have received, and we may in the future receive, notices or inquiries from patent holders (for example, other operating companies or non-practicing entities) suggesting that we may be infringing certain patents or that we need to license the use of their patents to avoid infringement.  Such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us or our customers or demand significant license fees.  Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop or adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards.  26Table of ContentsFailure to keep pace with these technological developments could lead to a decline in the use of our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.   Adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could negatively impact our results of operations. During 2013, approximately 61% of our revenue was generated from activities outside the United States.  This revenue (and the related expense) could be transacted in a non-functional currency or valued based on a currency other than the functional currency of the entity generating the revenues.  Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income.  Our risk management activities provide protection with respect to adverse changes in the value of only a limited number of currencies and are based on estimates of exposures to these currencies.In addition, some of the revenue we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable currency fluctuations (including devaluations of currencies) where the values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar.  If the U.S. dollar strengthens compared to currencies in which we generate revenue, this revenue may be translated at a materially lower amount than expected.  Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars.  The occurrence of currency fluctuations or exchange controls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  Acquisitions, strategic investments or entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our results of operations or reputation.  Although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions of, or acquire interests in joint ventures or other entities related to, complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may not be able to successfully partner with or integrate any such acquired businesses, products or technologies.  In addition, the integration of any acquisition or investment (including efforts related to an acquisition of an interest in a joint venture or other entity) may divert management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations.  Moreover, we may spend time and money on acquisitions or projects that do not meet our expectations or increase our revenue.  To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves available to us for other uses, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders.  Furthermore, we may not be able to successfully finance the business following the acquisition as a result of costs of operations, including any litigation risk which may be inherited from the acquisition.  Any acquisition or entry into a new business could subject us to new regulations with which we would need to comply, and we could be subject to liability or reputational harm to the extent we cannot meet any such compliance requirements.  Our expansion into new businesses could also result in unanticipated issues which may be difficult to manage.  Although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions. Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock and Governance Structure The market price of our common stock could be volatile. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations.  This market volatility, as well as the factors listed below, among others, could affect the market price of our common stock: •the continuation of adverse economic events around the world in financial markets as well as political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors;•quarterly variations in our results of operations or the results of operations of our competitors;•changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates;•the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors;•announcements related to litigation, regulation or legislative activity;•potential acquisitions by us of other companies; and•developments in our industry.27Table of ContentsOur organizational documents and Delaware law contain terms and provisions that could be considered anti-takeover provisions or could have an impact on a change in control. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable.  These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or have the effect of delaying or preventing entirely a change in control, which could harm our stock price.  For example, subject to limited exceptions, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits any person from beneficially owning more than 15% of any of the Class A common stock or any other class or series of our stock with general voting power, or more than 15% of our total voting power.  Further, except in limited circumstances, no customer or former customer of MasterCard, or any operator, customer or licensee of any competing general purpose payment card system, or any affiliate of any such person, may beneficially own any share of Class A common stock or any other class or series of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.  In addition: •our stockholders are not entitled to the right to cumulate votes in the election of directors;•our stockholders are not entitled to act by written consent;•a vote of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our stock then entitled to vote is required for stockholders to amend any provision of our bylaws; and•any representative of a competitor of MasterCard or of the Foundation is disqualified from service on our board of directors.A substantial portion of our voting power is held by the Foundation, which is restricted from selling shares for an extended period of time and therefore may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the other public stockholders.  In addition, the ownership of Class A common stock by the Foundation and the restrictions on transfer could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the Class A common stock. As of February 6, 2014, the Foundation owned 119,214,210 shares of Class A common stock, representing approximately 10.4% of our general voting power.  The Foundation may not sell or otherwise transfer its shares of Class A common stock prior to April 26, 2026 (twenty years and eleven months following the IPO), except to the extent necessary to satisfy its charitable disbursement requirements, for which purpose earlier sales are permitted.  The directors of the Foundation are required to be independent of us and our customers.  The ownership of Class A common stock by the Foundation, together with the restrictions on transfer, could discourage or make more difficult acquisition proposals favored by the other holders of the Class A common stock.  In addition, because the Foundation is restricted from selling its shares for an extended period of time, it may not have the same interest in short or medium-term movements in our stock price as, or incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to, our other stockholders. Item 1B