ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

        The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained
in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should not
consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties and we may update them in our future periodic reports.

 We invest primarily in shopping centers, which are subject to a number of significant risks that are beyond our control.  

        Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk that may affect the ability of our Centers to generate sufficient
revenues to meet operating and other expenses, including debt service, lease payments, capital expenditures and tenant improvements, and to make distributions to us and our stockholders. Centers
wholly owned by us are referred to as "Wholly Owned Centers" and Centers that are partly but not wholly owned by us are referred to as "Joint Venture Centers." A number of factors may decrease the
income generated by the Centers, including: 



•the national economic climate (including the current recession and constrained capital and credit markets);  
•the regional and local economy (which may be negatively impacted by rising unemployment, declining real estate values,
increased foreclosures, higher taxes, plant closings, industry slowdowns, union activity, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities and other factors);  
•local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods,
decreases in rental rates, declining real estate values and the availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants);   
•levels of consumer spending, consumer confidence, and seasonal spending (especially during the holiday season when many
retailers generate a disproportionate amount of their annual profits);   
•perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of a Center; and  
•increased costs of maintenance, insurance and operations (including real estate taxes). 


        Income
from shopping center properties and shopping center values are also affected by applicable laws and regulations, including tax, environmental, safety and zoning laws. 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg15701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 Current economic conditions, including recent volatility in the capital and credit markets, could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

        The United States is in the midst of an economic recession with the capital and credit markets experiencing extreme volatility and
disruption. The current economic environment has been affected by dramatic declines in the stock and housing markets, increases in foreclosures, unemployment and living costs as well as limited access
to credit. This deteriorating economic situation has impacted and is expected to continue to impact consumer spending levels, which adversely impacts the operating results of our tenants. If current
levels of market volatility continue or worsen, our tenants may also have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations. These events
could impact our tenants' ability to meet their lease obligations due to poor operating results, lack of liquidity, bankruptcy or other reasons. Our ability to lease space and negotiate rents at
advantageous rates could also be adversely affected in this type of economic environment and more tenants may seek rent relief. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations and
financial condition. 

 Some of our Centers are geographically concentrated and, as a result, are sensitive to local economic and real estate conditions.  

        A significant percentage of our Centers are located in California and Arizona and eight Centers in the aggregate are located in New
York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Many of these states have been more adversely affected by weak economic and real estate conditions. To the extent that weak economic or real estate conditions,
including as a result of the factors described in the preceding risk factors, or other factors continue to affect or affect California, Arizona, New York, New Jersey or Connecticut (or their
respective regions) more severely than other areas of the country, our financial performance could be negatively impacted. 

 We are in a competitive business.  

        There are numerous owners and developers of real estate that compete with us in our trade areas. There are six other publicly traded
mall companies and several large private mall companies, any of which under certain circumstances could compete against us for an acquisition of an Anchor or a tenant. In addition, private equity
firms compete with us in terms of acquisitions. This results in competition for both acquisition of centers and for tenants or Anchors to occupy space. The existence of competing shopping centers
could have a material adverse impact on our ability to lease space and on the level of rents that can be achieved. There is also increasing competition from other retail formats and technologies, such
as lifestyle centers, power centers, internet shopping and home shopping networks, factory outlet centers, discount shopping clubs and mail-order services that could adversely affect our
revenues. 

 Our Centers depend on tenants to generate rental revenues.  

        Our revenues and funds available for distribution will be reduced if: 



•a significant number of our tenants are unable (due to poor operating results, capital constraints, bankruptcy, terrorist
activities or other reasons) to meet their obligations;   
•we are unable to lease a significant amount of space in the Centers on economically favorable terms; or  
•for any other reason, we are unable to collect a significant amount of rental payments. 


        A
decision by an Anchor, or other significant tenant to cease operations at a Center could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The closing of an Anchor or other
significant tenant may allow other Anchors and/or other tenants to terminate their leases, seek rent relief and/or cease 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg15701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



operating
their stores at the Center or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the Center. In addition, Anchors and/or tenants at one or more Centers might terminate their leases as a result of
mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, dispositions or bankruptcies in the retail industry. The bankruptcy and/or closure of retail stores, or sale of an Anchor or store to a less desirable retailer,
may reduce occupancy levels, customer traffic and rental income, or otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. Furthermore, if the store sales of retailers operating in the Centers decline
sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of a default by a lessee, the affected Center may experience delays and costs in enforcing
its rights as lessor. 

        Given
current economic conditions, we believe there is an increased risk that store sales of Anchors and/or tenants operating in our Centers may decrease in future periods, which may
negatively affect our Anchors' and/or tenants' ability to satisfy their lease obligations and may increase the possibility of consolidations, dispositions or bankruptcies of our tenants and/or closure
of their stores. By way of example, in July 2008, Mervyn's filed for bankruptcy protection and announced in October its plans to liquidate all merchandise, auction its store leases and wind down its
business. We have 45 Mervyn's stores in our portfolio. We own the ground leasehold and/or fee simple interest in 44 of those stores and the remaining store is owned by a third party but is located at
one of our Centers. (See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management's Overview and Summary—Mervyn's"). 


 Our acquisition and real estate development strategies may not be successful.  

        Our historical growth in revenues, net income and funds from operations has been closely tied to the acquisition and redevelopment of
shopping centers. Many factors, including the availability and cost of capital, our total amount of debt outstanding, our ability to obtain financing on attractive terms, if at all, interest rates and
the availability of attractive acquisition targets, among others, will affect our ability to acquire and redevelop additional properties in the future. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition
opportunities, and newly acquired properties may not perform as well as expected. Expenses arising from our efforts to complete acquisitions, redevelop properties or increase
our market penetration may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition for acquisitions primarily from other REITs, as well as
from private real estate companies and financial buyers. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources. Increased competition for shopping center acquisitions may impact adversely
our ability to acquire additional properties on favorable terms. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to implement our growth strategy successfully or manage our expanded operations effectively
and profitably. 

        We
may not be able to achieve the anticipated financial and operating results from newly acquired assets. Some of the factors that could affect anticipated results
are: 



•our ability to integrate and manage new properties, including increasing occupancy rates and rents at such properties;  
•the disposal of non-core assets within an expected time frame; and   
•our ability to raise long-term financing to implement a capital structure at a cost of capital consistent with
our business strategy. 


        Our
business strategy also includes the selective development and construction of retail properties. Any development, redevelopment and construction activities that we may undertake will
be subject to the risks of real estate development, including lack of financing, construction delays, environmental requirements, budget overruns, sunk costs and lease-up. Furthermore,
occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable. Real estate development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to
obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, and occupancy and other required governmental permits and 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg15701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



authorizations.
If any of the above events occur, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and service our indebtedness could be adversely affected. 

 We may be unable to sell properties quickly because real estate investments are relatively illiquid.  

        Investments in real estate are relatively illiquid, which limits our ability to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic
or other conditions. Moreover, there are some limitations under federal income tax laws applicable to REITs that limit our ability to sell assets. In addition, because our properties are generally
mortgaged to secure our debts, we may not be able to obtain a release of a lien on a mortgaged property without the payment of the associated debt and/or a substantial prepayment penalty, which
restricts our ability to dispose of a property, even though the sale might otherwise be desirable. Furthermore, the number of prospective buyers interested in purchasing shopping centers is limited.
Therefore, if we want to sell one or more of our Centers, we may not be able to dispose of it in the desired time period and may receive less consideration than we originally invested in the Center. 

 We have substantial debt that could affect our future operations.  

        Our total outstanding loan indebtedness at December 31, 2008 was $8.0 billion (which includes $2.3 billion of
unsecured debt and $2.0 billion of our pro rata share of joint venture debt). Assuming the closing of our current loan commitment, approximately $406 millon of such indebtedness matures in 2009
(excluding loans with extensions). As a result of this substantial indebtedness, we are required to use a material portion of our cash flow to service principal and interest on our debt, which limits
the cash flow available for other business opportunities. In addition, we are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will
be insufficient to meet required debt service and that rising interest rates could adversely affect our debt service costs. A majority of our Centers are mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness,
and if income from the Center is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the Center could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. 

 We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants that could affect our operating activities.  

        Our unsecured credit facilities contain financial covenants, including interest coverage requirements, as well as limitations on our
ability to incur debt, make dividend payments and make certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain transactions that might
otherwise be advantageous. In addition, failure to meet certain of these financial covenants could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of such indebtedness which could have a
material adverse effect on us. 

 We depend on external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements.  

        We depend primarily on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can
meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on the willingness of banks, lenders and other institutions to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets in
general. Current turmoil in the capital and credit markets has significantly limited access to debt and equity financing for many companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the
financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any such refinancing could also
impose more restrictive terms. 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg15701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

        If inflation increases in the future, we may experience any or all of the following: 



•Difficulty in replacing or renewing expiring leases with new leases at higher rents;   
•Decreasing tenant sales as a result of decreased consumer spending which could adversely affect the ability of our tenants
to meet their rent obligations and/or result in lower percentage rents; and   
•An inability to receive reimbursement from our tenants for their share of certain operating expenses, including common
area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance. 


 Certain individuals have substantial influence over the management of both us and the Operating Partnership, which may create conflicts of interest.  

        Under the limited partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, we, as the sole general partner, are responsible for the
management of the Operating Partnership's business and affairs. Three of the principals serve as an executive officer and each principal is a member of our board of directors. Accordingly, these
principals have substantial influence over our management and the management of the Operating Partnership. 

 The tax consequences of the sale of some of the Centers and certain holdings of the principals may create conflicts of interest.  

        The principals will experience negative tax consequences if some of the Centers are sold. As a result, the principals may not favor a
sale of these Centers even though such a sale may benefit our other stockholders. In addition, the principals may have different interests than our stockholders because they are significant holders of
the Operating Partnership. 

 If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we will have reduced funds available for distributions to our stockholders.  

        We believe that we currently qualify as a REIT. No assurance can be given that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a
REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The complexity of these
provisions and of the applicable income tax regulations is greater in the case of a REIT structure like ours that holds assets in partnership form. The determination of various factual matters and
circumstances not entirely within our control, including determinations by our partners in the Joint Venture Centers, may affect our continued qualification as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new
regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of that
qualification. 

        If
in any taxable year we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we will suffer the following negative results: 



•we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and  
•we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. 


        In
addition, if we were to lose our REIT status, we will be prohibited from qualifying as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification was lost,
absent relief under statutory provisions. As a result, net income and the funds available for distributions to our stockholders would be reduced for at least five years and the fair market value of
our shares could be 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg15701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



materially
adversely affected. Furthermore, the Internal Revenue Service could challenge our REIT status for past periods, which if successful could result in us owing a material amount of tax for
prior periods. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations might cause our board of directors to revoke our REIT election. 


        Even
if we remain qualified as a REIT, we might face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Further, we might be subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and
property. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to stockholders. 

 Complying with REIT requirements might cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.  

        In order to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources
of income, the nature of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous
times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may cause us to forego opportunities we would otherwise pursue. 

        In
addition, the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose a 100% tax on income from "prohibited transactions." Prohibited transactions generally include sales of assets that
constitute inventory or other property held for sale in the ordinary course of business, other than foreclosure
property. This 100% tax could impact our desire to sell assets and other investments at otherwise opportune times if we believe such sales could be considered a prohibited transaction. 

 Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow or take other measures to make distributions to our stockholders.  


        As a REIT, we generally must distribute 90% of our annual taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders. From
time to time, we might generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes, or our taxable income might be greater than our cash flow available for distributions to
our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we might be unable to distribute 90% of our taxable income as required by the REIT rules. In that case, we would need to
borrow funds, sell a portion of our investments (potentially at disadvantageous prices), in certain limited cases distribute a combination of cash and stock, (at our stockholders' election but subject
to an aggregate cash limit established by the Company) or find another alternative source of funds. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity and reduce amounts for investments. 

 Outside partners in Joint Venture Centers result in additional risks to our stockholders.  

        We own partial interests in property partnerships that own 44 Joint Venture Centers as well as fee title to a site that is ground
leased to a property partnership that owns a Joint Venture Center and several development sites. We may acquire partial interests in additional properties through joint venture arrangements.
Investments in Centers that are not Wholly Owned Centers involve risks different from those of investments in Wholly Owned Centers. 


        We
may have fiduciary responsibilities to our partners that could affect decisions concerning the Joint Venture Centers. Third parties may share control of major decisions relating to
the Joint Venture Centers, including decisions with respect to sales, refinancings and the timing and amount of additional capital contributions, as well as decisions that could have an adverse impact
on our status. For example, we may lose our management and other rights relating to the Joint Venture Centers if: 



•we fail to contribute our share of additional capital needed by the property partnerships; 

20




 

<A
HREF="#bg15701a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•we default under a partnership agreement for a property partnership or other agreements relating to the property
partnerships or the Joint Venture Centers; or   
•with respect to certain of the Joint Venture Centers, if certain designated key employees no longer are employed in the
designated positions. 


        In
addition, some of our outside partners control the day-to-day operations of eight Joint Venture Centers (NorthPark Center, West Acres Center, Eastland Mall,
Granite Run Mall, Lake Square Mall, NorthPark Mall, South Park Mall and Valley Mall). We, therefore, do not control cash distributions from these Centers, and the lack of cash distributions from these
Centers could jeopardize our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Furthermore, certain Joint Venture Centers have debt that could become recourse debt to us if the Joint Venture Center is
unable to discharge such debt obligation. 

 Our holding company structure makes us dependent on distributions from the Operating Partnership.  


        Because we conduct our operations through the Operating Partnership, our ability to service our debt obligations and pay dividends to
our stockholders is strictly dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of the Operating Partnership and the ability of the Operating Partnership to make distributions to us. Under the Delaware
Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, the Operating Partnership is prohibited from making any distribution to us to the extent that at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the
distribution, all liabilities of the Operating Partnership (other than some non-recourse liabilities and some liabilities to the partners) exceed the fair value of the assets of the
Operating Partnership. An inability to make cash distributions from the Operating Partnership could jeopardize our ability to maintain qualification as a REIT. 

 Possible environmental liabilities could adversely affect us.  

        Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real
property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in that real property. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or
operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. In
addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remedy environmental hazards properly, may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent affected real
property or to borrow money using affected real property as collateral. 

        Persons
or entities that arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic
substances at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not that facility is owned or operated by the person or entity arranging for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances.
Laws exist that impose liability for release of ACMs into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with exposure to
ACMs. In connection with our ownership, operation, management, development and redevelopment of the Centers, or any other centers or properties we acquire in the future, we may be potentially
liable under these laws and may incur costs in responding to these liabilities. 

 Uninsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition.  

        Each of our Centers has comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance with insured limits customarily
carried for similar properties. We do not insure certain types of losses (such as losses from wars), because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. In addition, while we or the
relevant joint venture, as applicable, carries specific earthquake insurance on the Centers located in California, the policies are subject to a deductible equal to 5% of the total 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg15701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



insured
value of each Center, a $100,000 per occurrence minimum and a combined annual aggregate loss limit of $150 million on these Centers. We or the relevant joint venture, as applicable,
carries specific earthquake insurance on the Centers located in the Pacific Northwest. However, the policies are subject to a deductible equal to 2% of the total insured value of each Center, a
$50,000 per occurrence minimum and a combined annual aggregate loss limit of $200 million on these Centers. While we or the relevant joint venture also carries terrorism insurance on the
Centers, the policies are subject to a $50,000 deductible and a combined annual aggregate loss of $800 million. Each Center has environmental insurance covering eligible third-party losses,
remediation and non-owned disposal sites, subject to a $100,000 deductible and a $20 million five-year aggregate limit.
Some environmental losses are not covered by this insurance because they are uninsurable or not economically insurable. Furthermore, we carry title insurance on substantially all of the Centers for
less than their full value. 

 An ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses could inhibit a change of control or reduce the value of our common stock.  

         The Ownership Limit.    In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock
(after taking into
account options to acquire stock) may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include some entities that would not ordinarily be
considered "individuals") during the last half of a taxable year. Our Charter restricts ownership of more than 5% (the "Ownership Limit") of the lesser of the number or value of our outstanding shares
of stock by any single stockholder or a group of stockholders (with limited exceptions for some holders of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, and their respective families and
affiliated entities, including all four principals). In addition to enhancing preservation of our status as a REIT, the Ownership Limit may: 



•have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or other transaction without the approval
of our board of directors, even if the change in control or other transaction is in the best interest of our stockholders; and   
•limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock or preferred stock that they might
otherwise receive if an investor were attempting to acquire a block of stock in excess of the Ownership Limit or otherwise effect a change in control of us. 


        Our
board of directors, in its sole discretion, may waive or modify (subject to limitations) the Ownership Limit with respect to one or more of our stockholders, if it is satisfied that
ownership in excess of this limit will not jeopardize our status as a REIT. 

         Selected Provisions of our Charter and Bylaws.    Some of the provisions of our Charter and bylaws may have the effect of delaying,
deferring or
preventing a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may inhibit a change in control that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interest or that
could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for our shares. These provisions include the following: 



•a staggered board of directors (which will be fully declassified in 2011) and limitations on the removal of directors,
which may make the replacement of incumbent directors more time-consuming and difficult;   
•advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at
stockholder meetings;   
•the obligation of the directors to consider a variety of factors (in addition to maximizing stockholder value) with
respect to a proposed business combination or other change of control transaction; 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg15701a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•the authority of the directors to classify or reclassify unissued shares and issue one or more series of common stock or
preferred stock;   
•the authority to create and issue rights entitling the holders thereof to purchase shares of stock or other securities or
property from us; and   
•limitations on the amendment of our Charter and bylaws, the dissolution or change in control of us, and the liability of
our directors and officers. 


         Selected Provisions of Maryland Law.    The Maryland General Corporation Law prohibits business combinations between a Maryland
corporation and an
interested stockholder (which includes any person who beneficially holds 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock) or its affiliates for five years following the
most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder and, after the five-year period, requires the recommendation of the board of directors and two
super-majority stockholder votes to approve a business combination unless the stockholders receive a minimum price determined by the statute. As permitted by Maryland law, our Charter exempts from
these provisions any business combination between us and the principals and their respective affiliates and related persons. Maryland law also allows the board of directors to exempt particular
business combinations before the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Furthermore, a person is not an interested stockholder if the transaction by which he or she would otherwise
have become an interested stockholder is approved in advance by the board of directors. 

        The
Maryland General Corporation Law also provides that the acquirer of certain levels of voting power in electing directors of a Maryland corporation (one-tenth or more but
less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority and a majority or more) is not entitled to vote the shares in excess of the applicable threshold, unless voting
rights for the shares are approved by holders of two thirds of the disinterested shares or unless the acquisition of the shares has been specifically or generally approved or exempted from the statute
by a provision in our Charter or bylaws adopted before the acquisition of the shares. Our Charter exempts from these provisions voting rights of shares owned or acquired by the principals and their
respective affiliates and related persons. Our bylaws also contain a provision exempting from this statute any acquisition by any person of shares of our common stock. There can be no assurance that
this bylaw will not be amended or eliminated in the future. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our Charter also contain supermajority voting requirements with respect to our ability to amend our
Charter, dissolve, merge, or sell all or substantially all of our assets.  

<A
NAME="de15701_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B