Item 1A. Risk Factors        

We invest primarily in shopping centers, which are subject to a number of significant risks that are beyond our control.

Real
property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk that may affect the ability of our Centers to generate sufficient revenues to meet operating and other expenses, including debt
service, lease payments, capital expenditures and tenant improvements, and to make distributions to us and our stockholders. Centers wholly owned by us are referred to as "Wholly Owned Centers" and
Centers that are partly but not wholly owned by us are referred to as "Joint Venture Centers." A number of factors may decrease the income generated by the Centers, including: 



•the
national economic climate;
•the
regional and local economy (which may be negatively impacted by plant closings, industry slowdowns, union activity, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters,
terrorist activities and other factors);
•local
real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, retail space or retail goods, and the availability and creditworthiness of current and
prospective tenants);
•perceptions
by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of a Center; and
•increased
costs of maintenance, insurance and operations (including real estate taxes). 



Income
from shopping center properties and shopping center values are also affected by applicable laws and regulations, including tax, environmental, safety and zoning laws, and by interest rate
levels and the availability and cost of financing. In addition, the number of prospective buyers interested in purchasing shopping centers is limited. Therefore, if we were to sell one or more of our
Centers, we may receive less money than we originally invested in the Center. 

Some of our Centers are geographically concentrated and, as a result, are sensitive to local economic and real estate conditions.

A
significant percentage of our Centers are located in California and Arizona and 12 Centers in the aggregate are located in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. To the extent that weak economic or
real estate conditions, including as a result of the factors described in the preceding risk factor, or other factors affect California, Arizona, New York, New Jersey or Connecticut (or their
respective regions) more severely than other areas of the country, our financial performance could be negatively impacted. 

Our Centers must compete with other retail centers and retail formats for tenants and customers.

There
are numerous shopping facilities that compete with the Centers in attracting tenants to lease space, and an increasing number of new retail formats and technologies other than retail shopping
centers compete with the Centers for retail sales. Competing retail formats include lifestyle centers, factory outlet centers, power 

The Macerich Company    15




 


centers,
discount shopping clubs, mail-order services, internet shopping and home shopping networks. Our revenues may be reduced as a result of increased competition. 

Our Centers depend on tenants to generate rental revenues.

Our
revenues and funds available for distribution will be reduced if: 



•a
significant number of our tenants are unable (due to poor operating results, bankruptcy, terrorist activities or other reasons) to meet their obligations;
•we
are unable to lease a significant amount of space in the Centers on economically favorable terms; or
•for
any other reason, we are unable to collect a significant amount of rental payments. 


A
decision by an Anchor, or other significant tenant to cease operations at a Center could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The closing of an Anchor or other significant tenant
may allow other Anchors and/or other tenants to terminate their leases, seek rent relief and/or cease operating their stores at the Center or otherwise adversely affect occupancy at the Center. In
addition, Anchors and/or tenants at one or more Centers might terminate their leases as a result of mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, dispositions or bankruptcies in the retail industry. The
bankruptcy and /or closure of retail stores, or sale of an Anchor or store to a less desirable retailer, may reduce occupancy levels, customer traffic and rental income, or otherwise adversely affect
our financial performance. Furthermore, if the store sales of retailers operating in the Centers decline sufficiently, tenants might be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges.
In the event of a default by a lessee, the affected Center may experience delays and costs in enforcing its rights as lessor. 


For
example, on October 24, 2005, Federated Department Stores, Inc. disclosed that it has identified 82 duplicate locations in certain malls which will be divested during 2006. Eleven of
the identified stores are located in 10 of our Centers. On February 1, 2006, Musicland Holding Corp. announced the closure of 341 of its low performing Sam Goody and Suncoast Picture Stores
which include 26 stores located in the Centers. Retail Brand Alliance has recently closed 26 of its Casual Corner, Petite Sophisticate and August Max stores located in the Centers. No assurances can
be given regarding the impact on us of those divestitures or closures if or when they occur. 


Our acquisition and real estate development strategies may not be successful.

Our
historical growth in revenues, net income and funds from operations has been closely tied to the acquisition and redevelopment of shopping centers. Many factors, including the availability and
cost of capital, our total amount of debt outstanding, interest rates and the availability of attractive acquisition targets, among others, will affect our ability to acquire and redevelop additional
properties in the future. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition opportunities, and newly acquired properties may not perform as well as expected. Expenses arising from our efforts to
complete acquisitions, redevelop properties or increase our market penetration may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition
for acquisitions primarily from other REITs, as well as from private 

16     The Macerich Company




 


real
estate companies and financial buyers. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources. Increased competition for shopping center acquisitions may impact adversely our ability
to acquire additional properties on favorable terms. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to implement our growth strategy successfully or manage our expanded operations effectively and
profitably. 

We
may not be able to achieve the anticipated financial and operating results from newly acquired assets. Some of the factors that could affect anticipated results are: 



•Our
ability to integrate and manage new properties, including increasing occupancy rates and rents at such properties;
•the
disposal of non-core assets within an expected time frame; and
•Our
ability to raise long-term financing to implement a capital structure at a cost of capital consistent with our business strategy. 


Our
business strategy also includes the selective development and construction of retail properties. Any development, redevelopment and construction activities that we may undertake will be subject to
the risks of real estate development, including lack of financing, construction delays, environmental requirements, budget overruns, sunk costs and lease-up. Furthermore, occupancy rates
and rents at a newly
completed property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable. Real estate development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all
necessary zoning, land-use, building, and occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. If any of the above events occur, our ability to pay dividends to our
stockholders and service our indebtedness could be adversely affected. 

U.S. federal income tax developments could affect the desirability of investing in us for individual taxpayers.

In
May 2003, U.S. federal legislation was enacted that reduced the maximum tax rate for dividends payable to individual taxpayers generally from 38.6% to 15% (from January 1, 2003
through 2008). However, dividends payable by REITs are not eligible for such treatment, except in limited circumstances which we do not expect to occur. Although this legislation did not have a
directly adverse effect on the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable treatment for non-REIT dividends could cause individual investors to consider investments in
non-REIT corporations as more attractive relative to an investment in a REIT. 

Certain individuals have substantial influence over the management of both us and the Operating Partnership, which may create conflicts of interest.

Under
the limited partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, we, as the sole general partner, are responsible for the management of the Operating Partnership's business and affairs. Each of
the principals serve as our executive officers and are members of our board of directors. Accordingly, these principals have substantial influence over our management and the management of the
Operating Partnership. 

The tax consequences of the sale of some of the Centers may create conflicts of interest.

The Macerich Company    17




 


The
principals will experience negative tax consequences if some of the Centers are sold. As a result, the principals may not favor a sale of these Centers even though such a sale may benefit our
other stockholders. 

The guarantees of indebtedness by and certain holdings of the principals may create conflicts of interest.

The
principals have guaranteed mortgage loans encumbering one of the Centers. As of December 31, 2005, the principals have guaranteed an aggregate principal amount of approximately
$21.8 million. The existence of guarantees of these loans by the principals could result in the principals having interests that are inconsistent with the interests of our stockholders. 

The
principals may have different interests than our stockholders because they are significant holders of the Operating Partnership. 

If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we will have reduced funds available for distributions to our stockholders.


We
believe that we currently qualify as a REIT. No assurance can be given that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex
Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable income tax regulations is greater
in the case of a REIT structure like ours that holds assets in partnership form. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control, including
determinations by our partners in the Joint Venture Centers, may affect our continued qualification as a REIT. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court
decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of that qualification. 

If
in any taxable year we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we will suffer the following negative results: 



•we
will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and
•we
will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. 



In
addition, if we were to lose our REIT status, we will be prohibited from qualifying as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification was lost, absent relief
under statutory provisions. As a result, net income and the funds available for distributions to our stockholders would be reduced for at least five years and the fair market value of our shares could
be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the Internal Revenue Service could challenge our REIT status for past periods, which if successful could result in us owing a material amount of tax for
prior periods. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations might cause our board of directors to revoke our REIT election. 

18     The Macerich Company




 

Even
if we remain qualified as a REIT, we might face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Further, we might be subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. Any of
these taxes would decrease cash available for distributions to stockholders. 

Complying with REIT requirements might cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.

In
order to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature of our assets, the amounts we distribute to
our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for
distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may cause us to forego opportunities we would otherwise pursue. 

In
addition, the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose a 100% tax on income from "prohibited transactions." Prohibited transactions generally include sales of assets that constitute
inventory or other property held for sale in the ordinary course of business, other than foreclosure property. This 100% tax could impact our desire to sell assets and other investments at otherwise
opportune times if we believe such sales could be considered a prohibited transaction. 

Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to our stockholders.

As
a REIT, we generally must distribute 90% of our annual taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders. From time to time, we might generate taxable income greater than our net
income for financial reporting purposes, or our taxable income might be greater than our cash flow available for distributions to our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these
situations, we might be unable to distribute 90% of our taxable income as required by the REIT rules. In that case, we would need to borrow funds, sell a portion of our investments (potentially at
disadvantageous prices) or find another alternative source of funds. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity and reduce amounts for investments. 

Outside partners in Joint Venture Centers result in additional risks to our stockholders.

We
own partial interests in property partnerships that own 44 Joint Venture Centers as well as fee title to a site that is ground leased to a property partnership that owns a Joint Venture Center and
several development sites. We may acquire partial interests in additional properties through joint venture arrangements. Investments in Centers that are not Wholly Owned Centers involve risks
different from those of investments in Wholly Owned Centers. 

We
may have fiduciary responsibilities to our partners that could affect decisions concerning the Joint Venture Centers. Third parties may share control of major decisions relating to the Joint
Venture Centers, including decisions with respect to sales, refinancings and the timing and amount of additional capital contributions, as 

The Macerich Company    19




 


well
as decisions that could have an adverse impact on our status. For example, we may lose our management rights relating to the Joint Venture Centers if: 



•we
fail to contribute our share of additional capital needed by the property partnerships;
•we
default under a partnership agreement for a property partnership or other agreements relating to the property partnerships or the Joint Venture Centers; or
•with
respect to certain of the Joint Venture Centers, if certain designated key employees no longer are employed in the designated positions. 


In
addition, some of our outside partners control the day-to-day operations of eight Joint Venture Centers (NorthPark Center, West Acres Center, Eastland Mall, Granite Run
Mall, Lake Square Mall, NorthPark Mall, South Park Mall and Valley Mall). We, therefore, do not control cash distributions from these Centers, and the lack of cash distributions from these Centers
could jeopardize our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT. 

Our holding company structure makes it dependent on distributions from the Operating Partnership.

Because
we conduct our operations through the Operating Partnership, our ability to service our debt obligations and pay dividends to our stockholders is strictly dependent upon the earnings and cash
flows of the Operating Partnership and the ability of the Operating Partnership to make distributions to us. Under the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, the Operating Partnership is
prohibited from making any distribution to us to the extent that at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, all liabilities of the Operating Partnership (other than some
non-recourse liabilities and some liabilities to the partners) exceed the fair value of the assets of the Operating Partnership. 

Possible environmental liabilities could adversely affect us.

Under
various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of
hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in that real property. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or
toxic substances. The costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to
remedy environmental hazards properly, may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent affected real property or to borrow money using affected real property as collateral. 

Persons
or entities that arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at the
disposal or treatment facility, whether or not that facility is owned or operated by the person or entity arranging for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances. Laws exist that
impose liability for release of ACMs into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with exposure to ACMs. In connection
with our ownership, operation, management, development and 

20     The Macerich Company




 


redevelopment
of the Centers, or any other centers or properties we acquire in the future, we may be potentially liable under these laws and may incur costs in responding to these liabilities. 

Uninsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition.

Each
of our Centers has comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance with insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. We do not insure certain types of
losses (such as losses from wars), because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable. In addition, while we or the relevant joint venture, as applicable, carry earthquake insurance on
the Centers located in California, the policies are subject to a deductible equal to 5% of the total insured value of each Center, a $100,000 per occurrence minimum and a combined annual aggregate
loss limit of $200 million on these Centers. While we or the relevant joint venture also carries terrorism insurance on the Centers, the policies are subject to a $10,000 deductible and a
combined annual aggregate loss limit of $800 million for both certified and non-certified acts of terrorism. Each Center has environmental insurance covering eligible third-party
losses, remediation and non-owned disposal sites, subject to a $100,000 deductible and a $10 million three-year aggregate limit. Some environmental losses are not
covered by this insurance because they are uninsurable or not economically insurable. Furthermore, we carry title insurance on many of the Centers for less than their full value. If an uninsured loss
or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, the entity that owns the affected Center could lose its capital invested in the Center, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the Center, while
remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness or other financial obligations related to the Center. An uninsured loss or loss in excess of insured limits may negatively impact our financial
condition. 

As
the general partner of the Operating Partnership and certain of the property partnerships, we are generally liable for any of its unsatisfied obligations other than non-recourse
obligations. 

An ownership limit and certain anti-takeover defenses could inhibit a change of control of us or reduce the value of our common stock.


The Ownership Limit.    In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock (after
taking into account options to acquire stock) may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include some entities that would not
ordinarily be considered "individuals") during the last half of a taxable year. Our Charter restricts ownership of more than 5% (the "Ownership Limit") of the lesser of the number or value of our
outstanding shares of stock by any single stockholder (with limited exceptions for some holders of limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, and their respective families and
affiliated entities, including all four principals). In addition to enhancing preservation of our status as a REIT, the Ownership Limit may: 



•have
the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or other transaction without the approval of our board of directors, even if the change in
control or other transaction is in the best interest of our stockholders; and
•limit
the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock that they might otherwise receive if an investor were attempting to acquire a block of
common stock in excess of the Ownership Limit or otherwise effect a change in control of us. 

The Macerich Company    21




 





Our
board of directors, in its sole discretion, may waive or modify (subject to limitations) the Ownership Limit with respect to one or more of our stockholders, if it is satisfied that ownership in
excess of this limit will not jeopardize our status as a REIT. 

Stockholder Rights Plan and Selected Provisions of our Charter and Bylaws.    Agreements to which we are a party, as well as some of the
provisions of our Charter and bylaws, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us and may inhibit a change in control that some,
or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interest or that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market
prices for our shares. These agreements and provisions include the following: 



•a
stockholder rights plan (which is generally triggered when an entity, group or person acquires 15% or more of our common stock), which, in the event of a takeover attempt
not approved by our board of directors, allows our stockholders to purchase shares of our common stock, or the common stock of the acquiring entity, at a 50% discount;
•a
staggered board of directors and limitations on the removal of directors, which may make the replacement of incumbent directors more time-consuming and
difficult;
•advance
notice requirements for stockholder nominations of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings;
•the
obligation of the directors to consider a variety of factors (in addition to maximizing stockholder value) with respect to a proposed business combination or other
change of control transaction;
•the
authority of the directors to classify or reclassify unissued shares and issue one or more series of common stock or preferred stock;
•the
authority to create and issue rights entitling the holders thereof to purchase shares of stock or other securities or property from us; and
•limitations
on the amendment of our Charter and bylaws, the dissolution or change in control of us, and the liability of our directors and officers. 



Selected Provisions of Maryland Law.    The Maryland General Corporation Law prohibits business combinations between a Maryland corporation and
an interested stockholder (which includes any person who beneficially holds 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's shares) or its affiliates for five years following the most recent date
on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder and, after the five-year period, requires the recommendation of the board of directors and two super-majority
stockholder votes to approve a business combination unless the stockholders receive a minimum price determined by the statute. As permitted by Maryland law, our Charter exempts from these provisions
any business combination between us and the principals and their respective affiliates and related persons. Maryland law also allows the board of directors to exempt particular business combinations
before the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Furthermore, a person is not an interested 

22     The Macerich Company




 

stockholder
if the transaction by which he or she would otherwise have become an interested stockholder is approved in advance by the board of directors. 

The
Maryland General Corporation Law also provides that the acquirer of certain levels of voting power in electing directors of a Maryland corporation (one-tenth or more but less than
one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority and a majority or more) is not entitled to vote the shares in excess of the applicable threshold, unless voting rights for
the shares are approved by holders of two thirds of the disinterested shares or unless the acquisition of the shares has been specifically or generally approved or exempted from the statute by a
provision in our Charter or bylaws adopted before the acquisition of the shares. Our Charter exempts from these provisions voting rights of shares owned or acquired by the principals and their
respective affiliates and related persons. Our bylaws also contain a provision exempting from this statute any acquisition by any person of shares of our common stock. There can be no assurance that
this bylaw will not be amended or eliminated in the future. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our Charter also contain supermajority voting requirements with respect to our ability to amend our
Charter, dissolve, merge, or sell all or substantially all of our assets. 

<A
NAME="de1080_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
 
Item 1B