Item 1A, "Risk Factors," for a discussion of the importance of major
       customers, competitive conditions and certain other business risks and
       uncertainties that may affect our operations.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

     The Company's website is www.masco.com. The Company's periodic reports and
all amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are
available free of charge through its website. During the period covered by this
Report, the Company posted its periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and
its current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those documents to its
website as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports were filed or
furnished electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Company will continue to post to its website such reports and amendments to
those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are filed
with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Material contained
on the Company's website is not incorporated by reference into this Report on
Form 10-K.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

     The Company holds United States and foreign patents covering its vapor
deposition finish and various design features and valve constructions used in
certain of its faucets and holds numerous other patents and patent applications,
licenses, trademarks and trade names. As a manufacturer of brand-name consumer
products, the Company views its trademarks and other proprietary rights as
important, but does not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a
loss of such rights that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's
present business as a whole.

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately 62,000 people.
Satisfactory relations have generally prevailed between the Company and its
employees.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.

     There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may affect our
operations. These risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ
from past performance or expected results, including results described in
statements elsewhere in this Report that constitute "forward-looking statements"
under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The impact on our
operations of certain of these risk factors is discussed below under Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations." Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or
that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our
business. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these
developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial
condition, and results of operations. These risks and uncertainties include, but
are not limited to, the following, which we consider to be most relevant to our
specific business activities.

A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR BUSINESS RELIES ON RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION
ACTIVITY.

     Our results of operations are affected by levels of home improvement and
residential construction activity, principally in North America and Europe
(including repair and remodeling and new construction). Interest rates, energy
costs, consumer confidence, general and regional economic conditions, and
weather conditions and natural disasters can significantly impact levels of home
improvement and residential construction activity. Historically, the Company has
largely offset the impact on its reve-
                                        6


nues of cyclical declines in the new construction and home improvement markets
through new product introductions, acquisitions and market share gains. We have
increased our emphasis on new product development in recent years, but we have
reduced our prior focus on growth through acquisitions in favor of organic
growth. Consequently, our financial performance will, in part, reflect our
success in implementing our growth strategies in our existing markets and in
introducing new products or entering new geographic markets.

WE RELY ON OUR KEY CUSTOMERS.

     The size and importance of individual customers has increased because
customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated. Larger customers
can effect significant changes in their volume of purchases and can otherwise
significantly affect the terms and conditions on which we do business. Further,
as these same customers expand their markets and targeted customers, conflicts
occur, and in some instances we also become their competitors. Our relationships
with home centers are particularly important because sales of our home
improvement and building products to home center retailers are substantial. In
2005, sales to the Company's largest customer, The Home Depot, were $2.7 billion
(approximately 21 percent of total sales). Although builders, dealers and other
retailers represent other channels of distribution for the Company's products,
the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to The Home Depot would have a
material adverse impact on the Company.

WE FACE SIGNIFICANT COMPETITION IN THE U.S. AND GLOBAL MARKETS.

     The major markets for our products and services are highly competitive and
in recent years global competition has increased significantly. Competition in
our home improvement and building product lines is based largely on performance,
quality, brand reputation, style, delivery, customer service, exclusivity and
price. Competition in the markets for our service businesses is based primarily
on price, customer service, scope of capabilities, installation quality and
financial strength. Although the relative importance of such factors varies
between customers and among product categories, price is often a primary factor.
Our ability to maintain our leadership positions in our markets and to grow our
businesses depends to a large extent upon our success in maintaining our
relationships with our major customers, managing our cost structure and
introducing new products.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS ARE AFFECTED BY THE COST AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIAL.

     When we incur cost increases for raw materials, energy and other
commodities, it may be difficult for us to completely offset the impact with
price increases on a timely basis due to outstanding commitments to our
customers, competitive considerations and our customers' resistance to accepting
such price increases. Some of our operations, including the Installation and
Other Services segment, encounter shortages or unusual price increases in raw
materials from time to time. A substantial decrease in the availability of
products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could
adversely impact our results of operations.

OUR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS HAS DIFFERENT RISKS FROM THOSE OF OUR NORTH AMERICAN
BUSINESS.

     Over 15 percent of our sales are derived outside of North America
(principally in Europe) and are transacted in currencies other than U.S. dollars
(principally euros and Great Britain pounds). Our international business faces
political, monetary, economic and other risks that vary from country to country.
Our international operating results have been adversely influenced in recent
years, in part due to softness in the European markets and competitive pricing
pressures on certain products. Our operating results can fluctuate based on
changes in U.S. dollar exchange rates, which also presents difficulty in
comparing operating performance from period to period.

                                        7


WE HAVE FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS AND INVESTMENTS IN FINANCIAL ASSETS, INCLUDING
ASSETS THAT ARE NOT READILY MARKETABLE AND INVOLVE FINANCIAL RISK.

     We maintain investments in a number of private equity funds and in
marketable securities. Since there is no active trading market for investments
in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. These investments,
by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk,
including financial leverage, than other financial investments. Future changes
in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or
new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the
recorded values of such investments and the amounts realized upon liquidation.
In addition, we have commitments that require us, when requested, to contribute
additional capital to these private equity funds.

PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS AND OTHER LITIGATION COULD BE COSTLY.

     Increasingly, homebuilders (including our customers) are subject to
construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their
business. Our contractual commitments to these customers typically include our
agreement to indemnify them for liability for the performance of our products or
services or the performance of other products that we install. We are also
subject to product safety recalls and direct claims for product liability,
including putative class actions, which can result in significant liability and
be costly to defend. See Note U to the consolidated financial statements
included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information about litigation
involving our businesses.

ITEM 1B