Item 1A.
    

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may
    affect our Company. These risks and uncertainties could cause
    future results to differ from past performance or expected
    results, including results described in statements elsewhere in
    this Report that constitute “forward-looking
    statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act of 1995. The impact on our Company of certain of these risk
    factors is discussed below under Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.” Additional risks and
    uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently
    believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our Company.
    Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events,
    these developments could have material adverse effects on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. These
    risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the
    following, which we consider to be most relevant to our specific
    business activities.



    
    6



Table of Contents





    A significant
    portion of our business relies on residential construction
    activity and general economic conditions.


 


    A significant part of our business is affected by levels of home
    improvement (including repair and remodeling) and new home
    construction activity, principally in North America and Europe.
    Demographic factors, such as changes in population growth and
    household formations, affect levels of home improvement and new
    home construction over the long term. Significant factors that
    impact demand for home improvement and new home construction in
    the short term include the inventory levels of unsold new and
    existing homes, general and regional economic conditions,
    consumer confidence and credit, terms and availability of
    financing, affordability of homes, interest rates, energy costs,
    and, on a more localized basis, weather conditions and natural
    disasters. The new home construction market, in particular, is
    cyclical in nature. A discussion of the impact of the decline in
    new home construction and in consumer spending for home
    improvement items on our various segments and on the
    Company’s operating results is located under
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 of
    this Report.


 



    We rely on key
    customers and may encounter conflicts within and between our
    distribution channels.


 


    The size and importance of individual customers to our
    businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution
    channels have consolidated. Larger customers can effect
    significant changes in their volume of purchases and can
    otherwise significantly affect the terms and conditions on which
    we do business. Further, during downturns in our markets,
    declines in the financial condition and creditworthiness of
    significant customers may impact the volume of our business, the
    credit risk involved and our terms of doing business with them.
    Sales of our home improvement and building products to home
    center retailers are substantial. In 2007, sales to the
    Company’s largest customer, The Home Depot, were
    $2.4 billion (approximately 20 percent of the
    Company’s consolidated net sales). Although builders,
    dealers and other retailers represent other channels of
    distribution for the Company’s products and services, the
    loss of a substantial portion of our sales to The Home Depot
    would have a material adverse impact on the Company.


 


    As some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted
    customers, conflicts occur and in some instances we may also
    become their competitor. Increasingly, we are transacting
    business directly with our larger customers. These arrangements
    may undermine the business relationships we have with customers
    who purchase our products through traditional wholesale means.
    In addition, our large retail customers are increasingly
    requesting product exclusivity, which may impact our product
    offerings to other customers.


 



    Our principal
    markets are becoming more competitive.


 


    The major geographic markets for our products and services are
    highly competitive and, in recent years, competition has
    intensified significantly. Competition is further exacerbated
    during economic downturns. Home center retailers are increasing
    their purchases of products directly from manufacturers,
    particularly low-cost suppliers in Asia, for sale as private
    label and house brand merchandise. Also, home center retailers,
    which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on
    retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly turning their
    marketing efforts directly toward professional contractors and
    installers. The Company believes that competition in our
    industries is based largely on price, product and service
    quality, brand reputation, customer service and product
    features. Although the relative importance of such factors
    varies among customers and product categories, price is often a
    primary factor.


 


    Although we view the long term demographic trends for our
    markets as generally favorable, our markets are mature, cyclical
    and growing slowly. Additionally, our market position in and the
    competitive composition of our traditional markets affect our
    ability to expand our market share. In recent years, we have
    directed our strategic focus to organic growth and on developing
    new products and



    
    7



Table of Contents




    expanding our services, rather than on growth through
    acquisitions. However, our ability to maintain our competitive
    positions in our markets and to grow our businesses is
    challenged since it depends to a large extent upon successfully
    maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing
    growth strategies in our existing markets and entering new
    geographic markets, capitalizing on and strengthening our brand
    names, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter
    life-cycles for our products and identifying and effectively
    responding to changing consumer preferences and spending
    patterns through product development and innovation.


 


    The importance of sophisticated information technology to our
    industry is increasing. In order to remain competitive and
    respond to customer requirements and changes in their business
    processes, such as inventory replenishment, merchandise
    ordering, transportation and payment processing, the Company
    must be able to identify and implement comprehensive enterprise
    resource planning (“ERP”) systems. ERP systems are
    also critical to our supply chain management and logistics
    capabilities. The successful implementation of ERP systems also
    requires significant investment by the Company of both time and
    capital. Difficulties encountered in the deployment of
    significant new systems and other technology could be disruptive
    to the operation of our businesses.


 



    The cost and
    availability of materials and labor and the performance of our
    supply chain affect our operating results.


 


    When we incur cost increases for commodities or materials that
    are major components of our products or services, such as brass,
    insulation or titanium dioxide, it can be difficult for us to
    offset the impact on our operating results on a timely basis.
    Delays in adjusting or inability to adjust prices may be due to
    such factors as our existing arrangements with customers,
    competitive considerations, or customer resistance to such price
    increases. When the number of available sources for raw
    materials is limited, price volatility is more likely to occur
    and with longer duration when demand exceeds supply. In addition
    to their impact on our production expenses, increased costs of
    energy and other commodities, such as crude oil, can
    significantly affect the cost to transport our products and
    adversely affect our results of operations. See
    “Installation and Other Services” for a discussion of
    the impact of cost of raw materials and availability of labor
    and materials on that segment of our business.


 


    We may also be adversely affected if our homebuilder customers
    encounter difficulty or delays in obtaining required materials
    from their other suppliers or if they encounter labor shortages.
    This is particularly likely to occur during periods of rapid
    growth in the new home construction market. Under such
    circumstances, homebuilders may delay their construction
    schedules and, as a result, may reduce or delay their purchase
    of products and services from us.


 


    We rely heavily or exclusively on outside suppliers for certain
    of our products or key components. If there is an interruption
    in these sources of supply, we may experience difficulty or
    delay in substituting alternatives and our business may be
    disrupted.


 



    International
    political, economic and social developments impact our
    business.


 


    Over 20 percent of our sales are derived outside of North
    America (principally in Europe) and are transacted in currencies
    other than U.S. dollars (principally European euros and
    Great Britain pounds). Our international business faces risks
    associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and
    social environments, local labor conditions and practices, the
    laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural
    differences and differences in enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights. The financial reporting of our
    consolidated operating results is affected by fluctuations in
    currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in
    comparing operating performance from period to period and in
    forecasting future performance. U.S. laws affecting
    activities of U.S. companies doing business abroad,
    including tax laws and laws regulating various business
    practices, also impact our international business. Our
    international operating results may be influenced, when compared
    to our North American results, in part due to relative economic
    conditions in the European markets and due to competitive
    pricing pressures on certain products.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    Increasingly, we are manufacturing in Asia and sourcing products
    and components from third parties in Asia. The distances
    involved in these arrangements, together with differences in
    business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the
    limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have
    increased the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the
    complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for
    interruptions in our production scheduling.


 



    We have financial
    commitments and investments in financial assets, including
    assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial
    risk.


 


    We have maintained investments in
    available-for-sale
    securities (including marketable and auction rate securities)
    and a number of private equity funds. Since there is no active
    trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are
    for the most part illiquid. These investments, by their nature,
    can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk,
    including financial leverage, than other financial investments.
    Future changes in market conditions, the future performance of
    the underlying investments or new information provided by
    private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of
    such investments or the amounts realized upon liquidation. In
    addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute
    additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of
    a capital call from the private equity fund.


 



    Product liability
    claims and other litigation could be costly.


 


    Increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject
    to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary
    course of their business. Our contractual arrangements with
    these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify
    them against liability for the performance of our products or
    services or the performance of other products that we install.
    These claims frequently result in lawsuits against the
    homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including the
    Company, and require defense costs even when such products or
    services are not the principal basis for the claims.


 


    We are also subject to product safety regulations, recalls and
    direct claims for product liability, including putative class
    actions. Product liability claims can result in significant
    liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly
    to defend. Also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to
    provide us with products or components for products that we
    sell. Because of the difficulty of controlling the quality of
    products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are
    exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to
    limitations on our recourse against such suppliers.


 


    The Company has experienced an increase in the number of
    putative class action lawsuits in recent years predicated upon
    claims for antitrust violations, product liability, wage and
    hour issues and other matters. The Company has generally denied
    liability and vigorously defends these cases. However, even when
    there is no basis for imposing liability on the Company, such
    lawsuits are particularly costly to resolve due to their scope,
    complexity and the potentially significant exposure that is
    alleged.


 


    See Note T to the consolidated financial statements
    included in Item 8 of this Report for additional
    information about litigation involving our businesses.


 



    Government and
    industry responses to environmental and health and safety
    concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating
    results.


 


    Government and other regulations pertaining to health and safety
    (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and
    environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well
    as internationally. In addition to having to comply with current
    requirements (including requirements that do not become
    effective until a future date), even more stringent requirements
    could be imposed on our industries in the future. Compliance
    with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content
    in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and
    formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to certain of our
    businesses), may require us to alter our manufacturing and
    installation processes and our sourcing. Such actions could
    adversely impact our operating results, and our ability to
    effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely
    impact our competitive position.



    
    9



Table of Contents





    The long-term
    performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract,
    develop and retain talented management.


 


    To be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly
    qualified and talented personnel in management, sales,
    marketing, research and development and, as we enter new
    international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these
    markets. We compete with multinational firms in manufacturing
    and other industries for these employees and we invest
    significant resources in recruiting, developing and motivating
    them. The failure to attract, motivate, develop and retain key
    managers and other key employees could negatively affect our
    competitive position and our operating results.


 



    Item 1B