Item 1A. Risk
    Factors.


 


    There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that have
    affected and may continue to affect our business. These risks
    and uncertainties have negatively impacted our current results
    and could cause future results to differ from past performance
    or expected results, including results described in statements
    elsewhere in this Report that constitute “forward-looking
    statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act of 1995. The effect on us of certain of these risk factors
    is discussed below under Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.” Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be
    immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. These risks and
    uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following,
    which we consider to be most relevant to our specific business
    activities.


 



    A significant
    portion of our business relies on home improvement and new home
    construction activity levels, both of which are experiencing a
    significant downturn.


 


    A significant portion of our business relies on home improvement
    (including repair and remodeling) and new home construction
    activity levels, principally in North America and Europe. The
    new home construction market, which is cyclical in nature, is
    undergoing a significant downturn marked by declines in the
    demand for new homes, an oversupply of new and existing homes on
    the market and a reduction in the availability of financing for
    homebuyers. The oversupply of existing homes has been
    exacerbated by a growing number of home mortgage foreclosures,
    which is further contributing to downward pressure on home
    prices.


 


    Unlike most previous cyclical declines in new home construction
    in which we did not experience comparable declines in our home
    improvement businesses, the current economic decline is
    adversely affecting our home improvement businesses as well. Low
    levels of consumer confidence and the downward pressure on home
    prices have made it much more difficult for homeowners to make
    additional investments in existing homes, such as kitchen and
    bath remodeling projects. Further, recent disruptions in credit
    markets have limited the ability of consumers to finance home
    improvements.


 


    Although we believe the long-term outlook for the home
    improvement and new home construction markets is favorable, we
    cannot provide any assurances that current market conditions
    will not deteriorate further and we cannot predict the timing or
    strength of a recovery in these markets. Continued depressed
    activity levels in consumer spending for home improvement and
    new home construction will continue to adversely affect our
    results of operations and our financial position. Furthermore,
    continued economic turmoil may cause unanticipated shifts in
    consumer preferences and purchasing practices and in the
    business models and strategies of our customers. Such shifts may
    alter the nature and prices of products demanded by the end
    consumer and our customers and could adversely affect our
    operating performance.


 



    Continued
    disruption in the financial markets could harm our
    business.


 


    We, our customers and end consumers rely on stable and efficient
    financial markets. The credit markets and the financial services
    industry have experienced significant disruptions, characterized
    by



    
    7



Table of Contents




    the bankruptcy and failure of several financial institutions and
    severe limitations on credit availability. The disruptions in
    the financial markets have adversely affected, and could
    continue to adversely affect, our operations in a variety of
    ways. The financial stability of certain of our customers has
    been negatively impacted, which has resulted in increased bad
    debt expense for us. A prolonged continuation of adverse
    economic conditions would cause additional financial distress
    for our customers and could compromise the financial condition
    of our suppliers, which could result in non-performance by
    certain of our suppliers. In addition, our own borrowing costs
    are increasing and our access to capital markets may be reduced.
    In December 2008, our senior debt ratings were lowered by two
    credit rating agencies, including by one agency to below
    investment grade. As a result of the general deterioration in
    financial markets, as well as the lowering of our credit
    ratings, costs under our existing credit facilities have
    increased and may continue to increase, and it may become more
    difficult for us to obtain financing to fund operations or to
    refinance our existing debt obligations. Further, the dramatic
    deterioration in general economic conditions over the past
    several months has resulted in the decline in the value of our
    investments in debt and equity securities, including the assets
    held in our pension plans.


 



    A prolonged
    economic downturn would reduce our financial resources and
    flexibility.


 


    The valuation of assets on our balance sheet, particularly
    goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets is largely
    dependent upon the expectations for future performance of our
    businesses. The reduced expectations of future performance have
    caused us to recognize impairment charges for certain long-lived
    assets, including goodwill, and a continuation of the adverse
    conditions in our markets may result in additional impairment
    charges and a reduction in our shareholders’ equity in the
    future.


 


    Such a reduction in our shareholders’ equity and other
    adverse effects of a prolonged economic downturn on our results
    of operations and financial position would reduce our financial
    resources and flexibility and increase the relative impact on
    the Company of other developments that otherwise affect us.


 



    We rely on key
    customers and may encounter conflicts within and between our
    distribution channels.


 


    The size and importance of individual customers to our
    businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution
    channels have consolidated or exited the business. Larger
    customers can effect significant changes in their volume of
    purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the prices we
    receive for our products and services, our costs of doing
    business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do
    business. Further, as discussed above, during downturns in our
    markets, declines in the financial condition and
    creditworthiness of customers may impact the volume of our
    business, the credit risk involved and our terms of doing
    business with them. Sales of our home improvement and building
    products to home center retailers are substantial. In 2008,
    sales to our largest customer, The Home Depot, were
    $2.1 billion (approximately 21 percent of our
    consolidated net sales). Lowe’s is our second largest
    customer. In 2008, our sales to Lowe’s were less than
    10 percent of our consolidated net sales. Although
    homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other
    channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss
    of a substantial portion of our sales to The Home Depot or the
    loss of our sales to Lowe’s would have a material adverse
    effect on our business.


 


    As some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted
    customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels
    have occurred, and will continue to occur. In addition, we may
    undermine the business relationships we have with customers who
    purchase our products through traditional wholesale channels as
    we increase the amount of business we transact directly with our
    larger customers. In addition, our large retail customers are
    increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect
    the products we can offer to other customers.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Our principal
    markets are highly competitive.


 


    The major geographic markets for our products and services are
    highly competitive and, in recent years, competition has
    intensified significantly. Competition is further exacerbated
    during economic downturns. Home center retailers are increasing
    their purchases of products directly from manufacturers,
    particularly low-cost suppliers in Asia, for sale as private
    label and house brand merchandise. Also, home center retailers,
    which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on
    retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly turning their
    marketing efforts directly toward professional contractors and
    installers. We believe that competition in our industries is
    based largely on price, product and service quality, brand
    reputation, customer service and product features and
    innovation. Although the relative importance of such factors
    varies among customers and product categories, price is often a
    primary factor.


 


    In addition to the challenges we are facing as a result of the
    current economic downturn, our ability to maintain our
    competitive positions in our markets and to grow our businesses
    depends to a large extent upon successfully maintaining our
    relationships with major customers, implementing growth
    strategies in our existing markets and entering new geographic
    markets, capitalizing on and strengthening our brand names,
    managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles
    for our products and product development and innovation.


 



    The cost and
    availability of materials and the performance of our supply
    chain affect our operating results.


 


    It has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to
    pass on to customers cost increases for commodities or other
    materials that are major components of our products or services.
    In addition, we may incur substantial costs as part of our
    strategy to hedge against price volatility of certain
    commodities we purchase and we may make commitments to purchase
    supplies at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices.
    Delays in adjusting, or in our inability to adjust, selling
    prices may be due to factors such as our existing arrangements
    with customers, competitive considerations and customer
    resistance to price increases. Further, when commodity prices
    decline, we receive pressure from our customers to reduce prices
    for our products and services. Changes in energy costs and
    certain commodities not only impact our production costs, but
    also the cost to transport our products.


 


    We manufacture products in Asia and source products and
    components from third parties in Asia. The distances involved in
    these arrangements, together with differences in business
    practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited
    number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased
    the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of
    our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions
    in our production scheduling.


 


    We rely heavily or exclusively on outside suppliers for certain
    of our products or key components. If there is an interruption
    in these sources of supply, we may experience difficulty or
    delay in substituting alternatives and our business may be
    disrupted.


 



    International
    political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our
    business.


 


    Over 20 percent of our sales are derived outside of North
    America (principally in Europe) and are transacted in currencies
    other than U.S. dollars (principally European euros and
    Great Britain pounds). In addition, we manufacture products in
    Asia and source products and components from third parties in
    Asia. Our international business faces risks associated with
    changes in political, monetary, economic and social
    environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws,
    regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural
    differences and differences in enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights. U.S. laws affecting
    activities of U.S. companies doing business abroad,
    including tax laws and laws regulating various business
    practices, also impact our international business. Our
    international operating results may be influenced, when compared
    to our North American results, in part due to relative economic
    conditions in the European markets and due to competitive
    pricing pressures on certain products. The financial reporting
    of our consolidated operating results is affected by
    fluctuations



    
    9



Table of Contents




    in currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in
    comparing operating performance from period to period and in
    forecasting future performance.


 



    We have financial
    commitments and investments in financial assets, including
    assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial
    risk.


 


    We have maintained investments in
    available-for-sale
    securities (including marketable and auction rate securities)
    and a number of private equity funds. Since there is no active
    trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are
    for the most part illiquid. These investments, by their nature,
    can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk,
    including financial leverage, than other financial investments.
    Future changes in market conditions, the future performance of
    the underlying investments or new information provided by
    private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of
    such investments or the amounts realized upon liquidation. In
    addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute
    additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of
    a capital call from the private equity fund.


 



    Product liability
    claims and other litigation could be costly.


 


    We are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct
    claims for product liability, including putative class actions.
    Product liability claims can result in significant liability
    and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to
    defend. Also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to
    provide us with products or components for products that we
    sell. As a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality
    of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we
    are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products
    and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers.


 


    We have experienced putative class action lawsuits in recent
    years predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product
    liability and wage and hour issues. We have generally denied
    liability and have vigorously defended these cases. However,
    even when there is no basis for imposing liability, such
    lawsuits are particularly costly to resolve due to their scope
    and complexity and the potentially significant exposure that is
    alleged.


 


    Increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject
    to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary
    course of their business. Our contractual arrangements with
    these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify
    them against liability for the performance of our products or
    services or the performance of other products that we install.
    These claims, often asserted several years after completion of
    construction, frequently result in lawsuits against the
    homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and
    require us to incur defense costs even when our products or
    services are not the principal basis for the claims.


 


    See Note U to the consolidated financial statements
    included in Item 8 of this Report for additional
    information about litigation involving our businesses.


 



    Government and
    industry responses to environmental and health and safety
    concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating
    results.


 


    Government regulations pertaining to health and safety
    (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and
    environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well
    as internationally. In addition to having to comply with current
    requirements (including requirements that do not become
    effective until a future date), even more stringent requirements
    could be imposed on our industries in the future. Compliance
    with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content
    in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and
    formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to certain of our
    businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and
    installation processes and our sourcing. Such actions could
    adversely impact our operating results, and our ability to
    effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely
    impact our competitive position.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    The long-term
    performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract,
    develop and retain talented management.


 


    To be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly
    qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing
    and product design and innovation and, as we consider entering
    new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these
    markets. We compete with multinational firms for these employees
    and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing,
    motivating and retaining them. The failure to attract, develop,
    motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our
    competitive position and our operating results.


 



    Item 1B