Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of
    the importance of major customers, competitive conditions and
    certain other business risks and uncertainties that may affect
    our operations.






    
    5



Table of Contents



 



    Available
    Information


 


    The Company’s website is www.masco.com. The Company’s
    periodic reports and all amendments to those reports required to
    be filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
    Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are
    available free of charge through its website. The Company will
    continue to post its periodic reports on
    Form 10-K
    and
    Form 10-Q
    and its current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to those documents to its website as soon as
    reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Material
    contained on the Company’s website is not incorporated by
    reference into this Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Patents and
    Trademarks


 


    The Company holds United States and foreign patents covering its
    various design features and valve constructions used in certain
    of its faucets and holds numerous other patents and patent
    applications, licenses, trademarks and trade names. As a
    manufacturer of brand-name consumer products, the Company views
    its trademarks and other proprietary rights as important, but
    does not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a
    loss of such rights that would have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s present business as a whole.


 



    Employees


 


    At December 31, 2006, the Company employed approximately
    57,000 people. Satisfactory relations have generally
    prevailed between the Company and its employees.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.
    

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may
    affect our Company. These risks and uncertainties could cause
    future results to differ from past performance or expected
    results, including results described in statements elsewhere in
    this Report that constitute “forward-looking
    statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform
    Act of 1995. The impact on our Company of certain of these risk
    factors is discussed below under Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.” Additional risks and
    uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently
    believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our Company.
    Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events,
    these developments could have material adverse effects on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations. These
    risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the
    following, which we consider to be most relevant to our specific
    business activities.


 



    A significant
    portion of our business relies on residential construction
    activity.


 


    Our results of operations are affected by levels of home
    improvement and residential construction activity, including
    repair, remodeling and new home construction, principally in
    North America and Europe. Significant factors that impact demand
    for home improvement and residential construction include
    interest rates, energy costs, consumer confidence, general and
    regional economic conditions, weather conditions and natural
    disasters. The ability of contractors and builders to supply
    construction projects and the timing of such projects, and
    thereby their purchases of our products and services, can be
    affected significantly by the availability of building materials
    and skilled labor. Demographic factors, such as changes in
    population growth and household formation, affect levels of home
    improvement and residential construction over the longer term.
    We have increased our emphasis on new product development in
    recent years and we have reduced our prior focus on growth
    through acquisitions and are concentrating instead on organic
    growth. Consequently, our financial performance will, in part,
    reflect our success in implementing our growth strategies in our
    existing markets and in introducing new products or entering new
    geographic markets. See “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
    under Item 7 of this Report for discussion of the impact of
    residential construction activities on the Company’s
    operating results.


 



    We rely on key
    customers.


 


    The size and importance of individual customers has increased
    because customers in our major distribution channels have
    consolidated. Larger customers can effect significant changes in
    their volume



    
    6



Table of Contents




    of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the terms
    and conditions on which we do business. These customers are
    increasing their purchases of products directly from
    manufacturers for sale as private label and house brand
    merchandise. As some of our customers expand their markets and
    targeted customers, conflicts occur and in some instances we may
    also become their competitor. Sales of our home improvement and
    building products to home center retailers are substantial. In
    2006, sales to the Company’s largest customer, The Home
    Depot, were $2.5 billion (approximately 20 percent of
    net sales). Although builders, dealers and other retailers
    represent other channels of distribution for the Company’s
    products, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to The
    Home Depot would have a material adverse impact on the Company.


 



    We face
    significant competition in the U.S. and global
    markets.


 


    The major markets for our products and services are highly
    competitive and in recent years global competition has increased
    significantly. Competition in home improvement and building
    product lines is based largely on performance, quality, brand
    reputation, style, delivery, customer service, exclusivity and
    price. Competition in the markets for our service businesses is
    based primarily on price, customer service, scope of
    capabilities, installation quality and financial strength.
    Although the relative importance of such factors varies between
    customers and among product categories, price is often a primary
    factor. Home center retailers, which have historically
    concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and small
    contractors, may in the future intensify their marketing efforts
    directly to professional homebuilders. Our ability to maintain
    our leadership positions in the markets we serve and to grow the
    businesses depends to a large extent upon our success in
    maintaining our relationships with major customers, managing our
    cost structure and introducing new products that appeal to
    changing consumer preferences.


 



    Our operating
    results are affected by the cost and availability of labor and
    materials.


 


    When we incur cost increases for raw materials, such as copper,
    brass and particle board, and for energy and other commodities,
    it may be difficult for us to completely offset the impact with
    price increases on a timely basis due to outstanding commitments
    to customers, competitive considerations and our customers’
    resistance to accepting such price increases. Some of our
    operations, including the Installation and Other Services
    segment, encounter shortages or unusual price increases in raw
    materials, including insulation,  from time to time. A
    substantial decrease in the availability of raw materials from
    suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could
    adversely impact our results of operations.


 


    Although the availability of qualified employees is important
    throughout the entire Company, this is particularly applicable
    to our Installation and Other Services segment, because of its
    labor-intensive installation business. Significant changes in
    federal, state and local regulations addressing immigration and
    wages, as well as collective bargaining arrangements affecting
    wages and working conditions, could adversely affect the
    performance of our businesses.


 



    International
    developments have an increasing impact on our
    business.


 


    Over 17 percent of our sales are derived outside of North
    America (principally in Europe) and are transacted in currencies
    other than U.S. dollars (principally European euros and
    Great Britain pounds). Our international business faces risks
    associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and
    social environments, local labor conditions and practices, the
    laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural
    differences and differences in enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights. U.S. laws affecting
    activities of U.S. companies abroad, including tax laws and
    laws regulating various business practices, also impact our
    international business. Our international operating results have
    been adversely influenced in the past when compared to our North
    American results, in part due to relative softness in the
    European markets and competitive pricing pressures on certain
    products.


 


    Increasingly, we are sourcing products from outside North
    America, principally in Asia, and selling products in
    international markets. Differing international business
    practices, shipping and delivery requirements, and laws and
    regulations applicable to our business in these markets have
    raised the



    
    7



Table of Contents




    complexity of managing our supply chain logistics and the
    potential for interruptions in our production scheduling.


 


    Our operating results can fluctuate based on changes in currency
    exchange rates, which presents difficulty in comparing operating
    performance from period to period.


 



    We have financial
    commitments and investments in financial assets, including
    assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial
    risk.


 


    We have maintained investments in marketable securities and a
    number of private equity funds. Since there is no active trading
    market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the
    most part illiquid. These investments, by their nature, can also
    have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including
    financial leverage, than other financial investments. Future
    changes in market conditions, the future performance of the
    underlying investments or new information provided by private
    equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such
    investments and the amounts realized upon liquidation. In
    addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute
    additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of
    a capital call from the private equity fund.


 



    Product liability
    claims and other litigation could be costly.


 


    Increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject
    to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary
    course of their business. Our contractual commitments to these
    customers typically include the agreement to indemnify them
    against liability for the performance of our products or
    services or the performance of other products that we install.


 


    We are also subject to product safety regulations, recalls and
    direct claims for product liability, including putative class
    actions. Product liability claims can result in significant
    liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly
    to defend. Also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to
    provide us with products or components for products we sell.
    Because we do not have direct control over the quality of such
    products, we are exposed to the risks relating to the quality of
    such products and to limitations on our recourse against such
    suppliers.


 


    See Note T to the consolidated financial statements
    included in Item 8 of this Report for additional
    information about litigation involving our businesses.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B