Item 1A. Risk
    Factors.


 


    There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that have
    affected and may continue to affect our business. These risks
    and uncertainties have negatively impacted our current results
    and could cause our future results to differ from past
    performance or expected results, including results described in
    statements elsewhere in this Report that constitute
    “forward-looking statements” under the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The effect on us of
    certain of these risk factors is discussed below under
    Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Additional
    risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we
    currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.
    These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,
    the following, which we consider to be most relevant to our
    specific business activities.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    A
    significant portion of our business relies on home improvement
    and new home construction activity levels, both of which have
    experienced a significant downturn.


 


    A significant portion of our business relies on home improvement
    (including repair and remodeling) and new home construction
    activity levels, principally in North America and Europe. The
    new home construction market, which is cyclical in nature, has
    undergone a significant downturn marked by declines in the
    demand for new homes, an oversupply of new and existing homes on
    the market and a reduction in the availability of financing for
    homebuyers. The oversupply of existing homes held for sale has
    been exacerbated by a growing number of home mortgage
    foreclosures, which has contributed to the downward pressure on
    home prices.


 


    Unlike most previous cyclical declines in new home construction,
    this economic decline has also adversely affected our home
    improvement businesses. Low levels of consumer confidence and
    the downward pressure on home prices have made it much more
    difficult for homeowners to make additional investments in their
    homes, such as kitchen and bath remodeling projects. Further,
    disruptions in the credit markets have limited the ability of
    consumers to finance home improvements.


 


    We believe that, during the third and fourth quarters of 2009,
    there have been some signs of stabilization in our markets and
    we continue to believe that the long-term outlook for the home
    improvement and new home construction markets is favorable.
    However, we cannot predict the type, timing or strength of a
    recovery in our markets. Depressed activity levels in consumer
    spending for home improvements and new home construction have
    adversely affected our results of operations and our financial
    position.


 


    Furthermore, the economic turmoil has caused certain shifts in
    consumer preferences and purchasing practices and has resulted
    in changes in the business models and strategies of our
    customers. Such shifts, which may or may not be long-term, have
    altered the nature and prices of products demanded by the
    end-consumer and our customers. If we do not timely and
    effectively respond to these changing consumer preferences, our
    relationships with our customers could be adversely affected,
    the demand for our products could be reduced and our market
    share could be negatively affected.


 



    A
    prolonged economic downturn could reduce our financial resources
    and flexibility.


 


    The valuation of assets on our balance sheet, particularly
    goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, is
    largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance
    of our businesses. A further decline in the expectation of our
    future performance or a continuation of the adverse conditions
    in the new home construction markets may cause us to recognize
    non-cash impairment charges, which are not determinable at this
    time, for certain long-lived assets, including goodwill, and
    could result in a reduction in our shareholders’ equity in
    the future. Such a reduction in our shareholders’ equity
    may limit our borrowing capacity under our existing Five-Year
    Revolving Credit Agreement.


 



    We rely
    on key customers and may encounter conflicts within and between
    our distribution channels.


 


    The size and importance of individual customers to our
    businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution
    channels have consolidated or exited the business. Larger
    customers can make significant changes in their volume of
    purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the prices we
    receive for our products and services, our costs of doing
    business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do
    business. Sales of our home improvement and building products to
    home center retailers are substantial. In 2009, sales to our
    largest customer, The Home Depot, were $2.1 billion
    (approximately 26 percent of our consolidated net sales).
    Lowe’s is our second largest customer. In 2009, our sales
    to Lowe’s were less than 10 percent of our
    consolidated net sales. Although homebuilders, dealers and other
    retailers represent other channels of distribution for our
    products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our
    sales to The Home Depot or the loss of our sales to Lowe’s
    would have a material adverse effect on our business.


 


    As some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted
    customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels
    have occurred, and will continue to occur. In addition, we may
    undermine the





    
    8



Table of Contents





    business relationships we have with customers who purchase our
    products through traditional wholesale channels as we increase
    the amount of business we transact directly with our larger
    customers. In addition, our large retail customers are
    increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect
    the products we can offer to other customers.


 



    Our
    principal markets are highly competitive.


 


    The major geographic markets for our products and services are
    highly competitive and, in recent years, competition has
    intensified significantly. Competition is further intensified
    during economic downturns. Home center retailers are increasing
    their purchases of products directly from manufacturers,
    particularly low-cost suppliers in Asia, for sale as private
    label and house brand merchandise. Also, home center retailers,
    which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on
    retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly turning their
    marketing efforts directly toward professional contractors and
    installers. We believe that competition in our industries is
    based largely on price, product and service quality, brand
    reputation, customer service and product features and
    innovation. Although the relative importance of such factors
    varies among customers and product categories, price is often a
    primary factor.


 


    In addition to the challenges we have faced as a result of the
    economic downturn in our markets, our ability to maintain our
    competitive positions in our markets and to grow our businesses
    depends to a large extent upon successfully maintaining our
    relationships with major customers, implementing growth
    strategies in our existing markets and entering new geographic
    markets, capitalizing on and strengthening our brand names,
    managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles
    for our products and product development and innovation.


 



    The cost
    and availability of materials and the performance of our supply
    chain affect our operating results.


 


    It has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to
    pass on to customers cost increases for commodities or other
    materials that are major components of our products or services.
    In addition, we may incur substantial costs as part of our
    strategy to hedge against price volatility of certain
    commodities we purchase and we may make commitments to purchase
    supplies at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices.
    Delays in adjusting, or in our inability to adjust, selling
    prices may be due to factors such as our existing arrangements
    with customers, competitive considerations and customer
    resistance to price increases. Further, when commodity prices
    decline, we receive pressure from our customers to reduce prices
    for our products and services. Changes in energy costs and
    certain commodities not only impact our production costs, but
    also the cost to transport our products.


 


    We manufacture products in Asia and source products and
    components from third parties in Asia. The distances involved in
    these arrangements, together with differences in business
    practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited
    number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased
    the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of
    our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions
    in our production scheduling.


 


    We rely heavily or exclusively on outside suppliers for certain
    of our products or key components. If there is an interruption
    in these sources of supply, we may experience difficulty or
    delay in substituting alternatives and our business may be
    disrupted.


 



    International
    political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our
    business.


 


    Over 21 percent of our sales are derived outside of North
    America (principally in Europe) and are transacted in currencies
    other than U.S. dollars (principally European euros and
    Great Britain pounds). In addition, we manufacture products in
    Asia and source products and components from third parties in
    Asia. Our international business faces risks associated with
    changes in political, monetary, economic and social
    environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws,
    regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural
    differences and differences in enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights. U.S. laws affecting
    activities of U.S. companies doing business abroad,
    including tax laws and laws regulating various





    
    9



Table of Contents





    business practices, also impact our international business. Our
    international operating results may be influenced, when compared
    to our North American results, in part due to relative economic
    conditions in the European markets and due to competitive
    pricing pressures on certain products. The financial reporting
    of our consolidated operating results is affected by
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may present
    challenges in comparing operating performance from period to
    period and in forecasting future performance.


 



    We have
    financial commitments and investments in financial assets,
    including assets that are not readily marketable and involve
    financial risk.


 


    We have maintained investments in
    available-for-sale
    securities (including marketable and auction rate securities)
    and a number of private equity funds, although we are reducing
    such investments. Since there is no active trading market for
    investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part
    illiquid. These investments, by their nature, can also have a
    relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial
    leverage, than other financial investments. Future changes in
    market conditions, the future performance of the underlying
    investments or new information provided by private equity fund
    managers could affect the recorded values of such investments or
    the amounts realized upon liquidation. In addition, we have
    commitments that require us to contribute additional capital to
    these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from
    the private equity fund. The decline in economic conditions in
    2008 resulted in the decline in the value of our investments in
    debt and equity securities, including assets held in our pension
    plans. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of such
    investments and assets remains at reduced levels.


 



    Claims
    and litigation could be costly.


 


    We are, from time to time, involved in various claims,
    litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the
    ordinary course of our business and which could have a material
    adverse effect on us. These matters may include contract
    disputes, personal injury claims, warranty disputes,
    environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims,
    employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation,
    including class actions.


 


    In recent years, we have experienced class action lawsuits
    predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product
    liability and wage and hour issues. We have generally denied
    liability and have vigorously defended these cases. Due to their
    scope and complexity, however, such lawsuits are particularly
    costly to resolve and significant exposures have been alleged.


 


    We are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct
    claims for product liability that can result in significant
    liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly
    to defend. Also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to
    provide us with products or components for products that we
    sell. As a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality
    of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we
    are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products
    and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers.


 


    Increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject
    to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary
    course of their business. Our contractual arrangements with
    these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify
    them against liability for the performance of our products or
    services or the performance of other products that we install.
    These claims, often asserted several years after completion of
    construction, frequently result in lawsuits against the
    homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and
    require us to incur defense costs even when our products or
    services are not the principal basis for the claims.


 


    Although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters
    vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims
    and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or
    effect of any claim or litigation matter, and there can be no
    assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such matter.


 


    We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks
    of loss resulting from claims and litigation. We may elect not
    to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available
    insurance is excessive relative to the





    
    10



Table of Contents





    risks presented. The levels of insurance we maintain may not be
    adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. If
    any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not
    fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material
    adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    See Note S to the consolidated financial statements
    included in Item 8 of this Report for additional
    information about litigation involving our businesses.


 



    Government
    and industry responses to environmental and health and safety
    concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating
    results.


 


    Government regulations pertaining to health and safety
    (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and
    environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well
    as internationally. In addition to having to comply with current
    requirements (including requirements that do not become
    effective until a future date), even more stringent requirements
    could be imposed on our industries in the future. Compliance
    with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content
    in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and
    formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to certain of our
    businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and
    installation processes and our sourcing. Such actions could
    adversely impact our operating results, and our ability to
    effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely
    impact our competitive position.


 



    The
    long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to
    attract, develop and retain talented management.


 


    To be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly
    qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing
    and product design and innovation and, as we consider entering
    new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these
    markets. We compete with multinational firms for these employees
    and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing,
    motivating and retaining them. The failure to attract, develop,
    motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our
    competitive position and our operating results.



 



    Item 1B