Item 1A. Risk
    Factors.


 


    There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that
    could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties could
    cause our actual results to differ from past performance or
    expected results. We consider the following risks and
    uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business
    activities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
    known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also
    may adversely impact our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    A
    significant portion of our business relies on home improvement
    and new home construction activity levels, both of which are
    experiencing a prolonged and substantial downturn.


 


    A significant portion of our business relies on home improvement
    (including repair and remodeling) and new home construction
    activity levels, principally in North America and Europe. The
    new home construction market, which is cyclical in nature, is
    experiencing a prolonged and substantial downturn marked by
    continued softness in the demand for new homes, an oversupply of
    new and existing homes on the market and more stringent
    standards for homebuyers seeking financing. The oversupply of
    existing homes held for sale is exacerbated by a growing number
    of home mortgage foreclosures as well as uncertainties in the
    home foreclosure process, which are contributing to the downward
    pressure on home prices.


 


    Unlike most previous cyclical declines in new home construction,
    this economic decline is also adversely affecting our home
    improvement businesses. Continued low levels of consumer
    confidence, high levels of unemployment and the downward
    pressure on home prices have made consumers increasingly
    reluctant to make additional investments in existing homes, such
    as kitchen and bath remodeling projects. The increasing number
    of households with negative equity in their homes and more
    conservative lending practices, including for home equity loans
    which are often used to finance repairs and remodeling, are
    limiting the ability of consumers to finance home improvements.


 


    Although we believe that the long-term outlook for the home
    improvement and new home construction markets is favorable, we
    cannot predict the type, timing or strength of a recovery in our
    markets. Prolonged depressed activity levels in consumer
    spending for home improvements and new home construction will
    continue to adversely affect our results of operations and our
    financial position and may disproportionately affect certain of
    our business segments that are most heavily dependent on new
    home construction markets and large consumer investments in home
    remodeling projects.


 



    A
    prolonged economic downturn may reduce our financial resources
    and flexibility.


 


    Our credit agreement contains various financial covenants we
    must comply with, including covenants regarding debt to total
    capitalization. At December 31, 2010, we had additional
    borrowing capacity, subject to availability, of up to
    $113 million; alternatively, we could absorb a reduction in
    shareholders’ equity of $61 million and remain in
    compliance with this covenant.


 


    We have recently amended our credit agreement to allow for the
    add-back to shareholders’ equity of the impairment charges
    we took in 2010 for financial investments, goodwill and other
    intangible assets and changes to the valuation allowance on our
    deferred tax assets included in income tax expense aggregating
    $986 million, after tax. The amendment (deemed to be
    effective and applicable as of December 31, 2010) also
    allows us to add-back, if incurred, up to $350 million, in
    the aggregate, of future non-cash charges. We currently have
    borrowing capacity approximating $1 billion available under
    the Credit Agreement. See Footnote K for a detailed discussion
    of the terms of our credit facility and the recent amendment.


 


    The valuation of assets on our balance sheet, particularly
    goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, is
    largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance
    of our businesses. A further decline in the expectation of our
    future performance, or a further deterioration in expectations
    regarding the timing and the extent of the recovery of the new
    home construction market, may cause us to recognize additional
    non-cash, pre-tax impairment charges, which are not determinable
    at this time, for certain long-lived assets, including goodwill.
    This could result in additional impairment charges for goodwill
    and other indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-lived
    assets and a further reduction in shareholders’ equity.
    Such charges and potential reduction in shareholders’
    equity may limit our borrowing capacity under our credit
    agreement. There can be no assurance that we would be able to
    further amend the credit agreement or to obtain alternative
    financing, that any such financing would be on acceptable terms
    or that we would be permitted to do so under the terms of our
    existing financing arrangements.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    The
    volatile and challenging economic conditions of the past two
    years have caused shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing
    practices.


 


    The volatile and challenging economic environment of the past
    two years has caused shifts in consumer preferences and
    purchasing practices and changes in the business models and
    strategies of our customers. Such shifts, which may or may not
    be long-term, have altered the type and prices of products
    demanded by the end-consumer and our customers. Over the past
    two years, we have seen a downward trend in the size of the new
    homes being built, resulting in smaller kitchens and baths. In
    addition, consumers have shown an increasing interest in
    lower-cost products. If we do not timely and effectively
    identify and respond to these changing consumer preferences, our
    relationships with our customers could be harmed, the demand for
    our products could be reduced and our market share could be
    negatively affected.


 



    Our
    response to the prolonged downturn has been to continue our
    focus on implementation of cost savings initiatives, which have
    been costly and may not be effective.


 


    During the current downturn in the home improvement and new home
    construction markets, we have focused on cost saving
    initiatives, including rationalizing our businesses through
    business consolidations, plant closures, headcount reductions,
    system implementations and other cost saving initiatives. During
    2010 and 2009, we incurred pre-tax costs and charges of
    $208 million and $94 million, respectively, related to
    these initiatives. In the future, we may incur costs and charges
    relating to additional cost savings initiatives.


 


    We may not fully achieve the anticipated cost savings from these
    initiatives. If we do not effectively balance our focus on cost
    savings with the need to maintain a strong sales presence for
    our brands, we could lose market share. If the eventual recovery
    of our markets is fast-paced and robust, we may not be able to
    replace our reduced manufacturing and installation capacity in a
    timely fashion and our ability to respond to increased demand
    could be limited.


 



    We rely
    on key customers and may encounter conflicts within and between
    our distribution channels.


 


    The size and importance of individual customers to our
    businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution
    channels have consolidated or exited the business. Larger
    customers can make significant changes in their volume of
    purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the prices we
    receive for our products and services, our costs of doing
    business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do
    business. Sales of our home improvement and building products to
    home centers are substantial. In 2010, sales to our largest
    customer, The Home Depot, were $2.0 billion (approximately
    26 percent of our consolidated net sales). Lowe’s is
    our second largest customer. In 2010, our sales to Lowe’s
    were less than ten percent of our consolidated net sales.
    Although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent
    other channels of distribution for our products and services,
    the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to The Home Depot
    or the loss of our sales to Lowe’s would have a material
    adverse effect on our business.


 


    As some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted
    customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels
    have and will continue to occur. In addition, we may undermine
    the business relationships we have with customers who purchase
    our products through traditional wholesale channels as we
    increase the amount of business we transact directly with our
    larger customers. In addition, our large retail customers are
    increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect
    our ability to offer products to other customers.


 



    Our
    principal markets are highly competitive.


 


    The major geographic markets for our products and services are
    highly competitive and, in recent years, competition has
    intensified significantly. Competition is further intensified
    during economic downturns. Home centers are increasing their
    purchases of products directly from low-cost overseas suppliers
    for sale as private label and house brand merchandise.
    Additionally, home centers, which have historically concentrated
    their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are
    increasingly turning their marketing efforts directly





    
    9



Table of Contents





    toward professional contractors and installers. We believe that
    competition in our industries is based on price, product and
    service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product
    features and innovation.


 


    In addition to the challenges we have faced as a result of the
    economic downturn, our ability to maintain our competitive
    positions in our markets and to grow our businesses depends to a
    large extent upon successfully maintaining our relationships
    with major customers, implementing growth strategies in our
    existing markets and entering new geographic markets,
    capitalizing on and strengthening our brand names, managing our
    cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our
    products and product development and innovation.


 



    The cost
    and availability of materials and the performance of our supply
    chain affect our operating results.


 


    It has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to
    pass on to customers cost increases for commodities or other
    materials that are major components of our products or services.
    In addition, we may incur substantial costs as part of our
    strategy to hedge against price volatility of certain
    commodities we purchase and we may make commitments to purchase
    supplies at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices.
    Delays in adjusting, or in our inability to adjust, selling
    prices may be due to factors such as our existing arrangements
    with customers, competitive considerations and customer
    resistance to price increases. Further, when commodity prices
    decline, we receive pressure from our customers to reduce prices
    for our products and services. Changes in energy costs and
    certain commodities not only impact our production costs, but
    also the cost to transport our products.


 


    We manufacture products in Asia and source products and
    components from third parties in Asia. The distances involved in
    these arrangements, together with differences in business
    practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited
    number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased
    the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of
    our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions
    in our production scheduling.


 


    We rely heavily or, in certain cases, exclusively on outside
    suppliers for certain of our products or key components.
    Generally, these products and components are obtainable from
    various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss
    of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or
    components from our suppliers, or the loss of key supplier
    arrangements may disrupt our business and could adversely impact
    our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.


 



    International
    political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our
    business.


 


    Over 20 percent of our sales are made outside of North
    America (principally in Europe) and are transacted in currencies
    other than U.S. dollars (principally the euro and the
    British pound sterling). Increased international sales make up
    an important part of our future strategic plans. In addition, we
    manufacture products in Asia and source products and components
    from third parties in Asia. Our international business faces
    risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic
    and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the
    laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural
    differences and differences in enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights. U.S. laws affecting
    activities of U.S. companies doing business abroad,
    including tax laws and laws regulating various business
    practices, also impact our international business. Our
    international operating results may be influenced, when compared
    to our North American results, in part due to relative economic
    conditions in the European markets and due to competitive
    pricing pressures on certain products. The financial reporting
    of our consolidated operating results is affected by
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may present
    challenges in comparing operating performance from period to
    period and in forecasting future performance.




    
    10



Table of Contents






    We have
    financial commitments and investments in financial assets,
    including assets that are not readily marketable and involve
    financial risk.


 


    We continue to reduce our investment in private equity funds.
    Since there is no active trading market for investments in
    private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. These
    investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher
    degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than
    other financial investments. Future changes in market
    conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments
    or new information provided by private equity fund managers
    could affect the recorded values of such investments or the
    amounts realized upon liquidation. In addition, we have
    commitments that require us to contribute additional capital to
    these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from
    the private equity fund.


 



    Claims
    and litigation could be costly.


 


    We are, from time to time, involved in various claims,
    litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the
    ordinary course of our business and which could have a material
    adverse effect on us. These matters may include contract
    disputes, automobile liability and other personal injury claims,
    warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other
    tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings
    and litigation, including class actions.


 


    We are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct
    claims for product liability that can result in significant
    liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly
    to defend or manage. Also, we increasingly rely on other
    manufacturers to provide us with products or components for
    products that we sell. Due to the difficulty of controlling the
    quality of products or components sourced from other
    manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality
    of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such
    suppliers.


 


    We have also experienced class action lawsuits in recent years
    predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product
    liability and wage and hour issues. We have generally denied
    liability and have vigorously defended these cases. Due to their
    scope and complexity, however, these lawsuits are particularly
    costly to resolve and significant exposures have been alleged.


 


    Increasingly, our homebuilder customers are subject to
    construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary
    course of their business. Our contractual arrangements with
    these customers may include our agreement to defend and
    indemnify them against various liabilities caused by our
    negligence. These claims, often asserted several years after
    completion of construction, can result in complex lawsuits or
    claims against the homebuilders and many of their
    subcontractors, including us, and may require us to incur
    defense and indemnity costs even when our products or services
    are not the principal basis for the claims.


 


    Although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters
    vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims
    and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or
    effect of any claim or litigation matter.


 


    We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks
    of loss resulting from claims and litigation. We may elect not
    to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available
    insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. The
    levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully
    cover any and all losses or liabilities. If any significant
    accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or
    indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    See Note S to the consolidated financial statements
    included in Item 8 of this Report for additional
    information about litigation involving our businesses.


 



    Government
    and industry responses to environmental and health and safety
    concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating
    results.


 


    We are subject to U.S. and foreign government regulations
    pertaining to health and safety (including protection of
    employees and consumers), climate disruption and environmental
    issues. In addition to





    
    11



Table of Contents





    complying with current requirements and requirements that will
    become effective at a future date, even more stringent
    requirements could be imposed on our industries in the future.
    Compliance with these regulations may require us to alter our
    manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. Such
    actions could adversely impact our operating results, and our
    ability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could
    adversely impact our competitive position.


 



    The
    long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to
    attract, develop and retain talented personnel.


 


    To be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly
    qualified and talented personnel and, as we consider entering
    new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these
    markets. We compete for employees with a broad range of
    employers in many different industries, including large
    multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in
    recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. The
    failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees
    could negatively affect our competitive position and our
    operating results.



 



    Item 1B