ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  The information in this report includes forward-looking statements about our plans and future performance, including those under Outlook. These statements use such words as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe” and “plan.” They reflect our expectations and speak only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake to update them. Our expectations (or the underlying assumptions) may change or not be realized, and you should not rely unduly on forward-looking statements. Our business results are subject to a variety of risks that are reflected in the following considerations and factors that we believe are most likely to affect our performance.If we do not successfully design and execute our global growth strategies, we may not be able to increase revenues or market share.To drive future results, our global growth strategies must be effective in achieving market share gains while at the same time delivering operating income growth. Our strategies are aligned  around the four strategic growth priorities that represent our greatest opportunities to drive results-serving our customers’ favorite food and drinks, creating memorable experiences, offering unparalleled convenience, and being a more trusted brand. We focus our System on execution across all of our strategies through a common, integrated approach to people, products, place, price and promotion. Whether we successfully execute these strategies depends mainly on our System’s ability to: ▪Continue to innovate and differentiate in all aspects of the McDonald’s experience in a way that balances value with profitability;▪Reinvest in our restaurants and identify and develop restaurant sites consistent with our System’s plans for net growth of System-wide restaurants;•Provide clean and friendly environments that deliver a consistent McDonald's experience and demonstrate high service levels;•Drive restaurant improvements that achieve optimal capacity, particularly during peak mealtime hours; and•Manage the complexity of our restaurant operations.If we are unsuccessful in executing our strategies, or if our strategies do not yield the desired results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.We face intense competition in our markets, which could hurt our business.  We compete primarily in the IEO segment, which is highly competitive. In some of our major markets, IEO segments have remained stagnant in recent periods, have experienced only modest growth or have declined. As a result, we are facing sustained, intense competition from both traditional and other competitors, which include many non-traditional market participants such as convenience stores and coffee shops. In addition, in recent periods we have experienced emerging and growing competition from the fast casual category of restaurants.  We expect our environment to continue to be highly competitive and in any particular reporting period our results may be impacted by new actions of our competition, which may have a short- or long-term impact.We compete on the basis of product choice, quality, affordability, service and location. In particular, we believe our ability to compete successfully in the current market environment depends on our ability to improve existing products, develop new products, price our products appropriately, manage the complexity of our restaurant operations and respond effectively to our competitors’ actions. Recognizing these dependencies, we have intensified our focus in recent periods on strategies to achieve these goals and we will likely continue to modify existing strategies and implement new strategies in the future. There can be no assurance these strategies will be effective, and some strategies may be effective at improving some metrics while adversely affecting other metrics.If we do not anticipate and address evolving consumer preferences, our business could suffer.Our continued success depends on our System’s ability to anticipate and respond effectively to continuously shifting consumer demographics, trends in food sourcing, food preparation and consumer preferences in the IEO segment. We must continuously adapt to deliver a relevant experience for our customers amidst a highly competitive, value-driven operating environment. Over the last year, we have implemented initiatives to address these shifts at a more aggressive pace. There is no assurance that such initiatives will be successful and, if they are not, our financial results could be adversely impacted. McDonald's Corporation 2014 Annual Report    3If our pricing, promotional and marketing plans are not effective, our results may be negatively impacted. Our results depend on the impact of our pricing, promotional and marketing plans and our System’s ability to adjust these plans to respond quickly to economic and competitive conditions. Our existing or future pricing strategies and the value proposition they represent will continue to be important components of our overall plan, may not be successful and could negatively impact sales and margins. The promotion of our menu offerings may yield results below desired levels.Additionally, we operate in an increasingly complex and costly advertising environment. Our marketing and advertising programs may not be successful and we may fail to attract and retain customers. We have increased our emphasis on digital offerings and customer loyalty initiatives, and our success depends in part on whether we can effectively execute such offerings and initiatives in a way that will enhance customer engagement. If our pricing, promotional and marketing plans are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales, guest counts and market share could decrease.Failure to preserve the value and relevance of our brand could have a negative impact on our financial results.To be successful in the future, we believe we must preserve, enhance and leverage the value of our brand. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, our business practices and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. Consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons. For example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and often have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that affect the IEO segment or perceptions of our brand and could be material to our business. Perceptions may also be affected by activist campaigns to promote adverse perceptions of the quick-service category of the IEO segment or our brand and/or our operations, or to promote or threaten specific economic action involving the industry, us, our suppliers or franchisees. If we are unsuccessful in addressing such adverse perceptions, our brand and our financial results may suffer.Additionally, the ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our sustainability initiatives to support our brand ambition of good food, good people and good neighbor, which will require System-wide coordination and alignment. If we are not effective in achieving our stated sustainability goals and addressing these and other matters of social responsibility in a way that inspires trust and confidence, trust in our brand could suffer. In particular, business incidents that erode consumer trust, particularly if such incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can significantly reduce brand value and have a negative impact on our financial results.Unfavorable general economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results.Our results of operations are substantially affected by economic conditions, which can vary significantly by market and can impact consumer disposable income levels and spending habits. Economic conditions can also be impacted by a variety of factors including hostilities, epidemics and actions taken by governments to manage national economic matters, whether through austerity or stimulus measures and initiatives intended to control wages, unemployment, credit availability, inflation, taxation and other economic drivers. Many major economies, both advanced and developing, continue to face weak economies, high  unemployment rates and other ongoing economic issues. Continued adverse economic conditions or adverse changes in economic conditions in our markets could pressure our operating performance, and our business and financial results may suffer.Supply chain interruptions may increase costs or reduce revenues.We depend on the effectiveness of our supply chain management to assure reliable and sufficient product supply, including on favorable terms. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of suppliers in countries around the world.  Supply chain interruptions, including due to lack of supply or price increases, can adversely affect us or the suppliers and franchisees that are also part of our System and whose performance has a significant impact on our results. Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, disruptions in third party logistics or transportation systems, the inability of our suppliers to obtain credit, or food safety warnings or advisories. If we experience interruptions in our supply chain, our costs could increase and it could limit the availability of products critical to our operations.Food safety concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.Our ability to increase sales and profits depends on our System’s ability to meet expectations for safe food and on our ability to manage the potential impact on McDonald’s of food-borne illnesses and food or product safety issues that may arise in the future. Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe food products. However, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. In 2014, food quality issues were discovered at a supplier to McDonald’s and other food companies in China. As a consequence of this issue, results in China, Japan and certain other markets were negatively impacted due to lost sales and profitability, including expenses associated with rebuilding customer trust. Any future instances of food tampering, food contamination or food-borne illness could adversely affect our brand and reputation as well as our revenues and profits.Our franchise business model presents a number of risks.Our success relies in part on the financial success and cooperation of our franchisees, yet we have limited influence over their operations. Our restaurant margins arise from two sources: Company-operated restaurants and franchised restaurants. Our franchisees manage their businesses independently, and therefore are responsible for the day-to-day operation of their restaurants.  The revenues we realize from franchised restaurants are largely dependent on the ability of our franchisees to grow their sales.  Our franchisees may not experience sales growth, and our revenues and margins could be negatively affected as a result. If sales trends worsen for franchisees, their financial results may deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, restaurant closures or delayed or reduced payments to us.Our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our independent franchisees to implement major initiatives, which may include financial investment, and to remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive reinvestment plans. The ability of our franchisees to contribute to the achievement of our plans is dependent in large part on the availability of funding at reasonable interest rates and may be negatively impacted by the financial markets in general or by the individual franchisee's creditworthiness. Our operating performance could also be negatively affected if our franchisees experience food safety or 4    McDonald's Corporation 2014 Annual Reportother operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited, costly to exercise or subject to litigation. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our required standards, the brand’s image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results.Our ownership mix also affects our results and financial condition. The decision to own restaurants or to operate under franchise or license agreements is driven by many factors whose interrelationship is complex and changing. Our ability to achieve the benefits of our refranchising strategy, which involves a shift to a greater percentage of franchised restaurants, will depend on various factors, including our ability to identify franchisees that meet our rigorous standards, the performance of our existing franchisees and whether the resulting ownership mix supports our financial objectives.Changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations.The profitability of our Company-owned restaurants depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs, including food, paper, supply, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs. Any volatility in certain commodity prices could adversely affect our operating results by impacting restaurant profitability. The commodity market for some of the ingredients we use, such as beef and chicken, is particularly volatile and is subject to significant price fluctuations due to seasonal shifts, climate conditions, industry demand, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls, government regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and, in many instances, unpredictable. We can only partially address future price risk through hedging and other activities, and therefore increases in commodity costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. The global scope of our operations subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business.We face differing cultural, regulatory and economic environments that exist within and among the more than 100 countries where McDonald’s restaurants operate, and our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on our success in these environments. Meeting customer expectations is complicated by the risks inherent in our global operating environment, and our global success is partially dependent on our System’s ability to leverage operating successes across markets. Our initiatives may not have broad appeal with our customer base and could drive unanticipated changes in customer perceptions and guest counts.Disruptions in our operations or price volatility in a market can also result from governmental actions, such as price, foreign exchange or import-export controls, increased tariffs, government-mandated closure of our or our suppliers’ operations and asset seizures. The cost and disruption of responding to governmental investigations or actions, whether or not they have merit, may impact our results. Our international success depends in part on the effectiveness of our strategies and brand-building initiatives to reduce our exposure to such governmental actions. Our results of operations and financial condition are also affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.Additionally, we face challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets, which may entail a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest. For example, our results have been negatively impacted by the ongoing events in the Ukraine and Russia. Such challenges are exacerbated in many  cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced, including in areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our international operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.Challenges with respect to talent management could harm our business.Our success depends in part on our System’s ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel to manage our operations.  For instance, the trend toward higher wages and social expenses could have a negative impact on the margins of our Company-owned restaurants. Additionally, economic action, such as boycotts, protests, work stoppages or campaigns by labor organizations, could adversely affect us or the franchisees and suppliers that are also part of the McDonald’s System and whose performance has a material impact on our results.We are also impacted by the costs and other effects of compliance with U.S. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce, which includes our staff and employees working in our Company-owned restaurants. These regulations are increasingly focused on wage and hour, healthcare, immigration, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination. Our potential exposure to reputational and other harm regarding our workplace practices or conditions or those of our independent franchisees or suppliers (or perceptions thereof) could have a negative impact on our business.Information technology system failures or interruptions or breaches of our network security may interrupt our operations.We are increasingly reliant on our technological systems (e.g., point-of-sale and other in-store systems or platforms) to conduct our business, and any failure of these systems could significantly impact our operations. Despite our implementation of security measures, our technology systems could become vulnerable to damage, disability or failures due to theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events. If these systems were to fail, and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we could experience an interruption in our operations.  We may also not fully realize the benefits of the significant investments we are making to enhance the customer experience through digital engagement and social media.Furthermore, security breaches involving our systems or those of third party providers may occur, such as unauthorized access, denial of service, computer viruses and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Our information technology systems contain personal, financial and other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees as well as financial, proprietary and other confidential information related to our business. An actual or alleged security breach could result in system disruptions, shutdowns, theft or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. The occurrence of any of these incidents could result in adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, and criminal penalties or civil liabilities.Increasing regulatory complexity may adversely affect restaurant operations and our financial results.Our regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance and similar risks that could affect our operations and results in material ways. In many of our markets, including the United States and countries in Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. We are affected by the cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, including where inconsistent standards  McDonald's Corporation 2014 Annual Report    5imposed by multiple governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings.Our success depends in part on our ability to manage the impact of new, potential or changing regulations that can affect our business plans. These regulations may relate to product packaging, marketing and the nutritional content and safety of our food and other products, labeling and other disclosure practices (particularly given varying requirements and practices for testing and disclosure), ordinary variations in food preparation among our own restaurants, and the need to rely on the accuracy and completeness of information from third-party suppliers.Additionally, we are keenly aware of and working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain of the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases, energy and water resources. The increased public focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters (e.g., packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use) and the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them, could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks associated with our complex regulatory environment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.We are subject to increasing legal complexity and could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us.Increasing legal complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in material ways. We could be subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business, including class actions, administrative proceedings, government investigations, employment and personal injury claims, landlord/tenant disputes, disputes with current or former suppliers, claims by current or former franchisees, and intellectual property claims (including claims that we infringed another party’s trademarks, copyrights, or patents). Inconsistent standards imposed by governmental authorities can adversely affect our business and increase our exposure to litigation.Litigation involving our relationship with franchisees and the legal distinction between our franchisees and us for employment law purposes, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions. We are also subject to the legal and compliance risks associated with privacy, data collection, protection and management, in particular as it relates to information we collect when we provide technology-related services to franchisees.  Our operating results could also be affected by the following:▪The relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings;▪The cost and other effects of settlements, judgments or consent decrees, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products;▪Adverse results of pending or future litigation, including litigation challenging the composition and preparation of our products, or the appropriateness or accuracy of our marketing or other communication practices; and▪The scope and terms of insurance or indemnification protections that we may have.A judgment significantly in excess of any applicable insurance coverage could materially adversely affect our financial condition  or results of operations. Further, adverse publicity resulting from these claims may hurt our business.We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual property of others, which could harm the value of the McDonald’s brand and our business.The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. We also license our intellectual property to franchisees and we cannot assure you that they will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property.We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. The trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the United States in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the steps we have taken may not adequately ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others and third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. In particular, we may be involved in intellectual property claims, including often aggressive or opportunistic attempts to enforce patents used in information technology systems, which might affect our operations and results.  Any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and could harm our business.Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the taxes we pay and our profitability.We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives around the world.  In particular, we are affected by the impact of changes to tax laws or related authoritative interpretations, particularly if corporate tax reform becomes a key component of budgetary initiatives in the United States and elsewhere. We are also impacted by settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by the IRS or other taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope. Any increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.Changes in accounting standards or the recognition of impairment charges may adversely affect our future operations and results.New accounting standards or changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting estimates, could affect our future results. We may also be affected by the nature and timing of decisions about underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that result in impairment charges that reduce our earnings. In assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. These estimates are highly subjective and can be significantly impacted by many factors such as global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends. If our estimates or underlying assumptions change in the future, we may 6    McDonald's Corporation 2014 Annual Reportbe required to record impairment charges. If we experience any such changes, they could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods.A decrease in our credit ratings or an increase in our funding costs could adversely affect our profitability.We may be negatively affected by the impact of changes in our debt levels or our results of operations on our credit ratings, interest expense, availability of acceptable counterparties, ability to obtain funding on favorable terms or our operating or financial flexibility, especially if lenders impose new operating or financial covenants. Our operations may also be impacted by regulations affecting capital flows, financial markets or financial institutions, which can limit our ability to manage and deploy our liquidity or increase our funding costs. If any of these events were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.Trading volatility and price of our common stock may be affected by many factors.Many factors affect the volatility and price of our common stock in addition to our operating results and prospects. The most important of these, some of which are outside our control, are the following:▪The continuing unpredictable global economic and market conditions;▪Governmental action or inaction in light of key indicators of economic activity or events that can significantly influence financial markets, particularly in the United States which is the principal trading market for our common stock, and media reports and commentary about economic or other matters, even when the matter in question does not directly relate to our business;▪Trading activity in our common stock or trading activity in derivative instruments with respect to our common stock or debt securities, which can be affected by market commentary (including commentary that may be unreliable or incomplete); unauthorized disclosures about our performance, plans or expectations about our business; our actual performance and creditworthiness; investor confidence generally; actions by shareholders and others seeking to influence our business strategies; portfolio transactions in our stock by significant shareholders; or trading activity that results from the ordinary course rebalancing of stock indices in which McDonald’s may be included, such as the S&P 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average;▪The impact of our stock repurchase program or dividend rate; and▪The impact on our results of other corporate actions, such as those we may take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure in light of business, legal and tax considerations.Our results and prospects can be adversely affected by events such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, among others.Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, hostilities and social unrest, terrorist activities, health epidemics or pandemics (or expectations about them) can adversely affect consumer spending and confidence levels or other factors that affect our results and prospects, such as commodity costs. Our receipt of proceeds under any insurance we maintain with respect to certain of these risks may be delayed or the proceeds may be insufficient to offset our losses fully. ITEM 1B