Item 1A — Risk Factors,” beginning
below at page 11, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  Although we believe that the matters
reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee
future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.  You should not place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements.  We disclaim
any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking
statement.

 

Item 1.            BUSINESS

 

We develop and manufacture
specialized semiconductor products used by our customers for a wide variety of
embedded control applications.  Our
product portfolio comprises 8- and 16-bit PIC® microcontrollers and
16-bit dsPIC® digital signal controllers, which feature on-board
Flash (reprogrammable) memory technology. 
In addition, we offer a broad spectrum of high-performance linear,
mixed-signal, power management, thermal management, battery management and
interface devices.  We also make serial
EEPROMs and complementary microperipheral products.  Our synergistic product portfolio targets thousands
of applications and a growing demand for high-performance designs in the
automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control
markets.  Our quality systems are
ISO/TS16949 (2002 version) certified.

 

Microchip Technology
Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989.  In this Form 10-K, “we,” “us,” and “our” each
refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries.  Our executive offices are located at 2355
West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number
is (480) 792-7200.  

 

Our Internet address is www.microchip.com.  We
post the following filings on our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable
after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission:

 

•                  Our annual report on Form 10-K

•                  Our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q

•                  Our current reports on Form 8-K

•                  Any amendments to the above-listed
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934

 

All SEC filings on our
Web site are available free of charge. 
The information on our Web site is not
incorporated into this Form 10-K.

 

Industry Background

 

Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide
variety of products to expand product functionality and provide differentiation
while maintaining or reducing cost.  To
address these requirements, manufacturers often use integrated circuit-based
embedded control systems that enable them to:

 

•                  differentiate
their products

•                  replace
less efficient electromechanical control devices

•                  reduce
the number of components in their system

•                  add
product functionality

•                  decrease
time to market for their products 

•                  significantly
reduce product cost

 

3












 

Embedded control systems have been incorporated into
thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of applications and
markets worldwide, including:

 


 
  
  •
  
  
  automotive comfort, safety and entertainment
  applications
  
  
  •
  
  
  cordless and cellular telephone accessories
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  remote control devices
  
  
  •
  
  
  motor controls
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  handheld tools
  
  
  •
  
  
  security systems
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  home appliances
  
  
  •
  
  
  educational and entertainment devices
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  portable computers
  
  
  •
  
  
  consumer electronics
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  robotics
  
  
  •
  
  
  power supplies
  
 


 

Embedded control systems also facilitate the emergence
of new classes of products.  Embedded
control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the principal
active, and sometimes sole, component.  A
microcontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central
processing unit, non-volatile program memory, random access memory for data
storage and various input/output peripheral capabilities.  In addition to the microcontroller, a
complete embedded control system incorporates application-specific software and
may include specialized peripheral device controllers, non-volatile memory
components such as EEPROMs, and various analog and interface products.

 

The increasing demand for
embedded control has made the market for microcontrollers one of the larger
segments of the semiconductor market. 
Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit
architectures.  4-bit microcontrollers
are relatively inexpensive, but they generally lack the minimum functionality
required in most applications and are typically used in relatively simple
applications.  8-bit microcontrollers
remain very cost-effective for a wide range of high volume embedded control
applications and, as a result, continue to represent the largest portion of the
overall microcontroller market.  16-bit
and 32-bit microcontrollers provide higher performance and functionality, and
are generally found in more complex embedded control applications. 

 

Most microcontrollers
shipped today are ROM-based and must be programmed by the semiconductor
supplier during manufacturing, resulting in 8-12-week lead times, based on
market conditions, for delivery of such microcontrollers.  In
addition to delayed product introduction, these long lead times can result in
potential inventory obsolescence and temporary factory shutdowns when changes
in the firmware are required. To address these issues, some suppliers offer
programmable microcontrollers that can be configured by the customer in the
customer’s manufacturing line, thus significantly reducing lead time and
inventory risks when the inevitable firmware changes occur.  While these microcontrollers were initially
expensive relative to ROM-based microcontrollers, manufacturing technology has
evolved over time to the point where reprogrammable microcontrollers are now
available for little to no premium over ROM-based microcontrollers, thus
providing significant value to microcontroller customers.  As a result, reprogrammable microcontrollers
are the fastest growing segment of the microcontroller market. 

 

Our Products

 

Our strategic focus is on
embedded control solutions, including:

 

•                  microcontrollers

•                  development tools

•                  application-specific standard
products

•                  analog and interface products

•                  memory products

 

We provide highly
cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of
small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and ease of
development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product
integration by our customers.

 

4












 

Microcontrollers

 

We offer a broad family
of microcontroller products featuring a unique, proprietary architecture
marketed under the PIC® brand name. 
We believe that our PIC product family is a price/performance leader in
the worldwide microcontroller market.  We
have shipped over 4 billion PIC microcontrollers to customers worldwide since
their introduction in 1990.  Our PIC
products are designed for applications requiring field-programmability, high
performance, low power and cost effectiveness. 
They feature a variety of memory technology configurations, low voltage
and power, small footprint and ease of use. 
Our performance results from a product architecture which features dual
data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard dual-bus architecture; a
Reduced Instruction Set Computer, referred to as RISC; and variable length
instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages over
alternative single-bus, Complex Instruction Set Computer architectures,
referred to as CISC.  With almost 350 microcontrollers in our product
portfolio, we target the 8-bit and 16-bit microcontroller markets.  Additionally, our scalable product
architecture allows us to successfully target both the entry-level of the
32-bit microcontroller market, as well as the 4-bit microcontroller
marketplace, significantly enlarging our addressable market. 

 

Digital Signal Controllers (DSC) are a subset of our
16-bit Microcontroller offering.  Our
dsPIC®  Digital Signal
Controller families integrate the control features of high-performance 16-bit
microcontrollers with the computation capabilities of Digital Signal Processors
(DSPs), along with a wide variety of peripheral functions making them suitable
for a large number of embedded control applications.  Our dsPIC product family offers a broad suite
of hardware and software development tools, software application libraries,
development boards and reference designs to ease and expedite the customer
application development cycle.  With its
field-re-programmability, large selection of peripheral functions, small
footprint and ease of use, we believe that our dsPIC Digital Signal Controllers
enlarge our addressable market.

 

We have used our
manufacturing experience and design and process technology to bring additional
enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the development and production
of our PIC family of microcontroller products. 
Our extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our advanced,
low cost user programmability feature by incorporating non-volatile memory, such
as Flash, EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader
in reprogrammable microcontroller product offerings.

 

Development Tools 

 

We offer a comprehensive
set of low-cost and easy-to-learn application development tools.  These tools enable system designers to
quickly and easily program a PIC microcontroller and dsPIC Digital Signal
Controllers for specific applications and, we believe are a key factor for
obtaining design wins.

 

Our family of development
tools operates in the standard Windows® environment on standard PC
hardware.  These tools range from
entry-level systems, which include an assembler and programmer or in-circuit
debugging hardware, to fully configured systems that provide in-circuit emulation
hardware.  Customers moving from
entry-level designs to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve
their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC devices
since all of our systems share the same integrated development environment.

 

Many independent
companies also develop and market application development tools that support
our standard microcontroller product architecture.  Currently, there are more than 150
third-party tool suppliers worldwide whose products support our proprietary
microcontroller architecture.

 

We believe that
familiarity with and adoption of both our and third-party development tools by
an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the
future selection of our embedded control products.  These development tools allow design
engineers to develop thousands of application-specific products from our
standard microcontrollers.  To date, we
have shipped more than 430,000 development tools.

 

ASSPs

 

Our application-specific
standard products, referred to as ASSPs, are specialized products designed to
perform specific end-user applications, compared to our other products that are
more general purpose in nature.  Our ASSP
device families currently include, among others, our KEELOQ family of
secure data transmission products.

 

5












 

Analog
and Interface Products

 

Our analog and interface
products now consist of several families with over 450 power management,
linear, mixed-signal, thermal management and interface products.  At the end of fiscal 2006, our mixed-signal
analog and interface products were being shipped to more than 10,000 end
customers.

 

We continue marketing and
selling our analog and interface products into our existing microcontroller
customer base, which we refer to as our analog “attach” strategy, as well as to
new customers.  In addition to our “attach”
strategy, we market and sell other products that may not fit our traditional
PIC microcontroller and memory products customer base.  We market these, and all of our products,
based on an application segment approach targeted, to provide customers with application
solutions.

 

Memory
Products 

 

Our memory products
consist primarily of serial electrically erasable programmable read only
memory, referred to as Serial EEPROMs. 
We sell these devices primarily into the embedded control market, and we
are one of the largest suppliers of such devices worldwide.  Serial EEPROM products are used for
non-volatile program and data storage in systems where such data must be either
modified frequently or retained for long periods.  Serial EEPROMs have a very low I/O pin
requirement, permitting production of very small devices. 

 

We address customer
requirements by offering products with extremely small package sizes and very
low operating voltages for both read and write functions.  Our memory products also feature long data
retention and high erase/write endurance.

 

Manufacturing 

 

Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and
assembly and test.  The ownership of our
manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy,
enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us
being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.  By owning our wafer fabrication facilities
and much of our assembly and test operations, and by employing proprietary
statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and
maintain high production yields.  Direct
control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and
production cycles.  This control also
allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and
testing profit margin.

 

Our manufacturing
facilities are located in:

 

•                  Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2)

•                  Chandler, Arizona (probe operations) 

•                  Puyallup, Washington (Fab 3)
(non-operational)

•                  Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) 

•                  Bangkok, Thailand (assembly, probe
and test)

 

Wafer Fabrication

 

Fab 2 currently produces
8-inch wafers and supports manufacturing processes from 0.35 to 5.0
microns.  During fiscal 2006, Fab 2
operated at approximately 98% of its capacity compared to approximately 96%
during fiscal 2005.  Operating at higher
percentages of capacity has a positive impact on our operating results due to
the relatively high fixed costs inherent in wafer fabrication manufacturing.

 

Fab 3 is currently non-operational and being
held-for-future-use.  See “Item 6 - Selected Financial Data - Fiscal 2003 - Fab 3 Impairment Charge,”
below at page 22, for a discussion of the status of Fab 3.

 

We acquired Fab 4 in August 2002 and began production
on October 31, 2003.  At March 31, 2006,
Fab 4 produced 8-inch wafers using predominantly 0.5 micron manufacturing
processes and is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18 microns.  A significant amount of clean room capacity
and equipment acquired with Fab 4 can be brought on line in the future to
support incremental wafer fabrication capacity needs.  We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2, Fab 4  and Fab 3 will provide sufficient
capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand.

 

6












 

We continue to transition
products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing
costs.  We believe that our ability to
successfully transition to more advanced process technologies is important for
us to remain competitive.  

 

We outsource a small percentage
of our wafer production requirements to third-party wafer foundries to augment
our internal manufacturing capabilities.

 

Assembly and Test

 

We perform product
assembly and testing at our facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand.  At March 31, 2006, approximately 66% of our
assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility.  As of March 31, 2006, our Thailand facility
was testing substantially all of our wafer production.  We use third-party assembly and test
contractors in several Asian countries for the balance of our assembly and test
requirements.

 

General Matters
Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations

 

We employ proprietary
design and manufacturing processes in developing our microcontroller and memory
products.  We believe our processes
afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater
functionality in new product designs. 
While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes
for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology
for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.  This allows us to more fully absorb our
process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market
more rapidly.  Our engineers utilize
advanced Computer Aided Design tools and software to perform circuit design,
simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication
facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test
wafers quickly and efficiently.

 

Due to the high fixed
costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing
yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall
operating results.  Our continuous focus
on manufacturing productivity has allowed us to maintain excellent
manufacturing yields at our facilities. 
Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation
of statistical process control, extensive employee training and selective
upgrading of our manufacturing facilities and equipment.  Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and
yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results.  The manufacture and assembly of integrated
circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices,
such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide
variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing
environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our wafer
fabrication personnel and equipment.  As
is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced
lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. 
Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at
approximately the current levels.

 

At the end of fiscal 2006, we owned long-lived assets
(consisting of property, plant and equipment and goodwill) in the United States
amounting to $576.9 million and $124.5 million in other countries,
including $118.0 million in Thailand.  At
the end of fiscal 2005, we owned long-lived assets in the United States
amounting to $628.0 million and $106.4 million in other countries,
including $100.6 million in Thailand.

 

Research and Development (R&D)

 

We are committed to
continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development
systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.  We believe these investments are significant
factors in maintaining our competitive position.  Our current R&D activities focus on the
design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, ASSPs, Serial
EEPROM memory, analog and interface products, new development systems, software
and application-specific software libraries. 
We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve
further cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products.  

 

In fiscal 2006, our
R&D expenses were $94.9 million,
compared to $93.0 million in fiscal 2005 and $85.4
million in fiscal 2004. 

 

7












 

Sales and Distribution

 

General

 

We market our products
worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and
distributors. 

 

Our direct sales force
focuses on a wide variety of strategic accounts in three geographical markets:
the Americas, Europe and Asia.  We
currently maintain sales and technical support centers in major metropolitan areas
in North America, Europe and Asia.  We
believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued
development of the embedded control market. 
The majority of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application
engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees or backgrounds
and have been previously employed in high technology environments.  We believe that the technical knowledge of
our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our
products.  The primary mission of our FAE
team is to provide technical assistance to customers and to conduct periodic
training sessions for the balance of our sales team.  FAEs also frequently conduct technical
seminars and workshops in major cities around the world.

 

Distribution

 

Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the
product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.  We believe that distributors can provide an
effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.  We believe that customers recognize Microchip
for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply
channel.  During fiscal 2006 and fiscal
2005, we added significant resources to our internal sales force to provide
technical sales support for our customers in both the OEM and distribution
channels.  We believe that some of our
distribution partners have limited internal resources to support the technical
sales activities associated with selling our products, and we have added our
own employees to support these activities.

 

In fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, we derived 65% of our
net sales from sales through distributors and 35% of our net sales from
customers serviced directly by Microchip. 
Distributors accounted for 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2004.  Our largest distributor accounted for
approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2006 and approximately 13% of our
net sales in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. 
Our second largest distributor accounted for approximately 11% of our
net sales in fiscal 2006 and approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2005
and fiscal 2004.  No other distributor or
end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005
or 2004.

 

Distributors generally have broad-based rights to
return product to us.  As revenue on
distributor shipments is not recognized until the distributors sell our product
to their end customers, distributor returns have no impact on our revenue.

 

We also grant certain credits to our
distributors.  The credits are granted to
the distributors on specifically identified pieces of the distributors’
business to allow them to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our
products to their end customers.  The
credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until they
provide information regarding the sale to their end customer.  The effect of granting these credits
establishes the net selling price from us to our distributors for the products
and results in the net revenue recognized by us when the product is sold by the
distributors to their end customers.

 

We also provide these distributors with price
protection by reducing product pricing based on market conditions, competitive
considerations and other factors.  Price
protection is granted to distributors on the inventory that they have on hand
at the date the price protection is offered. 
When we reduce the selling price of our products, it allows the
distributors to claim a credit against their outstanding accounts receivable
balances based on the new price of the inventory they have on hand as of the
date of the price reduction.  There is no
revenue recognition impact from the price protection activity.

 

We do not offer material incentive programs to our
distributors.

 

We do not have long-term agreements with our
distributors and we, or our distributors, may each terminate our relationship
with little or no advanced notice.  The
loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our
distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could
result in an increase in inventory returns.

 

8












 

Sales by Geography

 

Sales by
geography for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows (dollars in
thousands):

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Year Ended March 31,
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Americas
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  266,353
  
  
   
  
  
  28.7
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  248,881
  
  
   
  
  
  29.4
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  219,641
  
  
   
  
  
  31.4
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Europe
  
  
   
  
  
  255,367
  
  
   
  
  
  27.5
  
  
   
  
  
  232,493
  
  
   
  
  
  27.4
  
  
   
  
  
  194,187
  
  
   
  
  
  27.8
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Asia
  
  
   
  
  
  406,173
  
  
   
  
  
  43.8
  
  
   
  
  
  365,562
  
  
   
  
  
  43.2
  
  
   
  
  
  285,432
  
  
   
  
  
  40.8
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Sales
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  927,893
  
  
   
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  846,936
  
  
   
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  699,260
  
  
   
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
 


 

Sales
to customers in Asia have increased as a percentage of sales from fiscal 2004
to fiscal 2005 and from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2006.  We attribute this to the fact that many of
our customers are transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia, as well
as to the growth in the demand of customers in Asia.

 

Sales
to foreign customers accounted for approximately 74% of our net sales in fiscal
2006, 73% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and 71% of our net sales in fiscal
2004.  Our sales to foreign customers
have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the
manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications,
computing, consumer and industrial control products.  Americas sales include sales to customers in
the United States, Canada, Central America and South America.

 

Sales
to customers in China, including Hong Kong, accounted for approximately 17% of
our net sales in fiscal 2006, approximately 16% of our net sales in fiscal 2005
and approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal 2004.  In fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, sales to
customers in Taiwan accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales.  We did not have sales into any other foreign
countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004.

 

Our
international sales are predominately U.S. dollar denominated.  Although foreign sales are subject to certain
government export restrictions, we have not experienced any material
difficulties as a result of export restrictions to date.

 

The
semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of
supply and demand.  Since a significant
portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our
business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth
quarters of our fiscal year.  However,
broad strength in our overall business in recent periods has had a more
significant impact on our results than seasonality, and has made it difficult
to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business.

 

Backlog

 

As of April 30, 2006 our
backlog was approximately $231.2 million, compared to $166.9 million as of
April 29, 2005.  Our backlog includes all
purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months.

 

We primarily produce
standard products that can be shipped from inventory within a short time after
we receive an order.  Our business and,
to a large extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized
by short-term orders and shipment schedules. 
Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in
delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the customer’s option without
significant penalty.  Thus, while backlog
is useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not
be a reliable measure of sales for any future period.  

 

Competition

 

The semiconductor
industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion
and rapid technological change.  We
compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of
which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical,
marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue
engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.  Furthermore, capacity in the semiconductor
industry is generally increasing over time and such increased capacity or
improved product availability could adversely affect our competitive position.

 

9












 

We currently compete
principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our
embedded control products, including the following product characteristics:

 


 
  
  •
  
  
  speed
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  
  
  reliability
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  functionality
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  
  
  packaging alternatives
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  density
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  
  
  price
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  power consumption
  
  
   
  
  
  •
  
  
  availability
  
 


 

We believe that other important competitive factors in
the embedded control market include:

 


 
  
  •
  
  
  ease of use
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  functionality of application development systems
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  dependable delivery and quality
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  •
  
  
  technical service and support 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 


 

We believe that we compete favorably with other
companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully
in the future, which could harm our business.

 

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks

 

We maintain a portfolio of United States and foreign
patents, expiring on various dates between 2006 and 2024.  We also have numerous additional United
States and foreign patent applications pending. 
We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have
a material impact on our business.  While
we intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing
processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the
technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and our
ability to rapidly commercialize product developments, rather than on our
patents.  Our existing patents and any
new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to
provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us.  In addition, the laws of certain foreign
countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as
the laws of the United States.  

 

We have entered into
certain intellectual property licenses and cross-licenses with other companies
related to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry,
we and our customers have from time to time received, and may in the future
receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual
property rights on certain of our products or technologies.  We investigate all such notices and respond
as we believe is appropriate.  Based on
industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain any necessary
licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure
that all licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue
or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed.  Litigation, which could result in substantial
cost to us and require significant attention from management, may be necessary
to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, or to defend us
against claimed infringement of the rights of others.  The failure to obtain necessary licenses or
other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement claims, could harm our
business.  

 

Environmental Regulation

 

We must comply with many
different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to
the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in
our manufacturing processes.  Our
facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe
that our activities are conducted in compliance with such regulations.  Any changes in
such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire
costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with
environmental regulations.  Any failure
by us to adequately control the storage, use and disposal of regulated
substances could result in future liabilities.

 

Increasing public
attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic
manufacturing operations.  While we have
not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from
environmental regulations, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the use of, or to
adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or
future environmental regulations.

 

Employees

 

As of April 30, 2006, we
had 4,336 employees.  None of our
employees are represented by a labor organization.  We have never had a work stoppage and believe
that our employee relations are good.

 

10












 

Executive Officers

 

The following sets forth
certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 23, 2006:

 


 
  
  Name
  
  
   
  
  
  Age
  
  
   
  
  
  Position
  
 
 
  
  Steve Sanghi
  
  
   
  
  
  50
  
  
   
  
  
  Chairman of the Board,
  President and Chief Executive Officer
  
 
 
  
  Stephen V. Drehobl
  
  
   
  
  
  44
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President, Security, Microcontroller and Technology
  Division
  
 
 
  
  David S. Lambert
  
  
   
  
  
  54
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President, Fab
  Operations
  
 
 
  
  Mitchell R. Little
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President,
  Worldwide Sales and Applications
  
 
 
  
  Ganesh Moorthy
  
  
   
  
  
  46
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Memory Division
  
 
 
  
  Gordon W. Parnell
  
  
   
  
  
  56
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President, Chief
  Financial Officer
  
 
 
  
  Richard J. Simoncic
  
  
   
  
  
  42
  
  
   
  
  
  Vice President, Analog
  and Interface Products Division
  
 


 

Mr.
Sanghi has been President since August 1990, CEO since
October 1991, and Chairman of the Board since October 1993.  He has served as a director since August
1990.  Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in
Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a
B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India.

 

Mr.
Drehobl has served as Vice President of the Security,
Microcontroller, and Technology Division since July 2001. He has been employed
by Microchip since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various
roles since February 1997.  Mr. Drehobl
holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the University of Dayton.

 

Mr.
Lambert has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since
November 1993.  From 1991 to November
1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing Engineering, and from 1989 to
1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab Operations.  Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical
Engineering from the University of Cincinnati.

 

Mr.
Little has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and
Applications since July 2000.  He has
been employed by Microchip since 1989 and has served as a Vice President in
various roles since September 1993.  Mr.
Little holds a B.S. degree in Engineering Technology from United Electronics
Institute.

 

Mr. Moorthy has
served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and Memory Division, since
December 2003.  From November 2001 to
December 2003, he served as Vice President, Advanced Microcontroller and
Automotive Division.  Prior to this time,
he served in various executive capacities with other semiconductor
companies.  Mr. Moorthy holds an M.B.A.
in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering
from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the
University of Bombay. 

 

Mr.
Parnell has served as Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer since May 2000.  He served as
Vice President, Controller and Treasurer from April 1993 to May 2000.  Mr. Parnell holds a finance/accounting
qualification with the Association of Certified Accountants from Edinburgh
College, Scotland. 

 

Mr. Simoncic
has served as Vice President, Analog and
Interface Products Division since September 1999.  From October 1995 to September 1999 he served
as Vice President in various roles. 
Joining Microchip in 1990, Mr. Simoncic held various roles in Yield
Enhancement and Quality Systems.  Mr.
Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry
Institute of Technology.

 

Item 1A.         RISK FACTORS

 

When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should
give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the
information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we
file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 

Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to factors that could
reduce our net sales and profitability.

 

Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide
variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of
which are beyond our control.  Some of
the factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include:

 

•      changes in demand or market acceptance of
our products and products of our customers

•      levels of inventories at our customers

•      the mix of inventory we hold and our
ability to satisfy orders from our inventory

 

11












 

•      changes in utilization of our
manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields

•      our ability to secure sufficient assembly
and testing capacity

•      availability of raw materials and
equipment

•      competitive developments including pricing
pressures

•      the level of orders that are received and
can be shipped in a quarter

•      the level of sell-through of our products
through distribution

•      changes or fluctuations in customer order
patterns and seasonality

•                  constrained
availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers’ ability
to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those
customers

•      costs and outcomes of any tax audits or
any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues

•                  disruptions
in our business or our customers’ businesses due to terrorist activity, armed
conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or
disruptions in the transportation system

•      property damage or other losses which are
not covered by insurance

•      general economic, industry or political
conditions in the United States or internationally

 

We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our
operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely
upon any such comparisons as indications of future performance.  In future periods our operating results may
fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts
and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our
common stock.

 

Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our
manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.

 

The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits,
particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those
that we produce, are complex processes. 
These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including
the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the
materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and
equipment, and other quality issues.  As
is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced
lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. 
Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at
approximately the current levels.  This
could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future
orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment
deadlines.

 

Our operating results are also adversely affected when
we operate at less than optimal capacity. 
Lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being charged
directly to expense and lower gross margins.

 

We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same
quarter and therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments.

 

Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a
combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for
shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders.  We measure turns orders at the beginning of a
quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set
entering the quarter.  Historically, we
have proven our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive
strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery
schedules.  Shorter lead times generally
mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in
any particular quarter and reduces our backlog visibility on future product
shipments.  Turns orders correlate to
overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.  Because turns orders are difficult to
predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to
forecast.  If we do not achieve a
sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our
revenue targets, our revenue and operating results may suffer.

 

Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing
pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share.

 

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive
and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological
change.  We compete with major domestic
and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market
recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing,
distribution and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.  Emerging companies are also increasing their
participation in the market for embedded control applications.  We may be unable to compete successfully in
the future, which could harm our business.

 

12












 

Our ability to compete successfully depends on a
number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not
limited to:

 

•      the quality, performance, reliability,
features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products

•      our success in designing and manufacturing
new products including those implementing new technologies

•      the rate at which customers incorporate
our products into their own applications

•      product introductions by our competitors

•      the number, nature and success of our
competitors in a given market

•      our ability to obtain adequate supplies of
raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices

•      our ability to protect our products and
processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights

•      the quality of our customer service and
our ability to address the needs of our customers, and

•      general market and economic conditions.

 

Historically, average selling prices in the
semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.  The overall average selling prices of our
microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained
relatively constant, while average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM and
non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined over time.

 

We have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary
product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions.  We have been able to moderate average selling
price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to
introduce new products with more features and higher prices.  We have experienced in the past and expect to
continue to experience in the future varying degrees of competitive pricing
pressures in our Serial EEPROM products.

 

We may be unable to maintain average selling prices
for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which
could adversely impact our operating results.

 

Our business is dependent on selling through distributors.

 

Sales through distributors accounted for 65% of our
net sales in fiscal 2006, 65% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and 64% of our
net sales in fiscal 2004.  Our two
largest distributors together accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales
in fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. 
We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and both we
and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no
advanced notice.  We believe that
customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors
as an effective supply channel.

 

During fiscal 2006 we reduced the gross margin that
certain of our distributors earn when they sell our products.  We reduced these distributors’ gross margins
because we believe these distributors did not have sufficient technical sales
resources to properly address the marketplace for our products.  We have added a significant number of
technical sales employees throughout our worldwide sales organization to
address the support requirements for both our OEM and distribution customers.  We cannot predict the impact, if any, that
our actions will have on our relationships with such distributors.

 

The loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one
or more of our distributors could reduce our net sales in a given period and
could result in an increase in inventory returns.

 

Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a
timely basis.

 

Our future operating results will depend on our
ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can
compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address
customer requirements.  The success of
our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not
limited to:

 

•      proper new product selection

•      timely completion and introduction of new
product designs

•                  development
of support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy
for engineers to understand and use, and

•      market acceptance of our customers’ end
products.

 

Because our products are complex, we have experienced
delays from time to time in completing development of new products.  In addition, our new products may not receive
or maintain substantial market acceptance. 
We may be unable to

 

13












 

design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis,
which could adversely impact our future operating results.

 

Our success also depends upon our ability to develop
and implement new design and process technologies.  Semiconductor design and process technologies
are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D
expenditures.  We and other companies in
the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting
transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered
reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries.  Our future operating results could be
adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is
substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.

 

We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and
competition for qualified personnel is intense in our market.

 

Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of
our senior management, engineering and other personnel.  The competition for qualified engineering and
management personnel is intense.  We may
be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and
retaining additional key personnel that we require.  The loss of the services of one or more of
our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our
business.  We have no employment
agreements with any member of our senior management team.

 

We are dependent on several contractors to perform key manufacturing
functions for us.

 

We use several contractors located in Asia for a
portion of the assembly and testing of our products.  We also rely on outside wafer foundries for a
portion of our wafer fabrication. 
Although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the
disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and
operating results.  

 

Our use of third parties involves some reduction in
our level of control over the portions of our business that we
subcontract.  Our future operating
results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operations
or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if
they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and
costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in
foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure
disruption.  Further, procurement from
third parties is done by purchase order and contracts.  If these third parties are unable or
unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality
standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for
our products in a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may
not be on favorable terms to us.  In such
event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in
manufacturing and production costs, decline in product reliability, and our
business and operating results could be adversely affected.

 

We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail
to meet our needs.

 

Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw
materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.  We generally have more than one source for
these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of
delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards.  The raw materials and equipment necessary for
our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of
semiconductors in product applications increases.  We have experienced supply shortages from
time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need
more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support
certain equipment with updates or spare and replacements parts.  An interruption of any raw materials or
equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of
equipment, could harm our business.

 

Our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide
fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry.

 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by
seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand.  Since a significant portion of our revenue is
from consumer markets and international sales, our business may be subject to
seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal
year.  However, broad strength in our
overall business in recent periods has had a more significant impact on our
results than seasonality, and has made it difficult to assess the impact of
seasonal factors on our business.  The
industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by
diminished product demand and production over-capacity.  We have sought to reduce our exposure to this
industry cyclicality by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or
quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad
range of market segments.  However, we
have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations

 

14












 

in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience
period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or
economic conditions.

 

We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims.


 

We are currently, and in the future may be, involved
in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual
property rights, contracts and other matters. 
We were involved in patent infringement litigation with Philips
Corporation which was settled in fiscal 2005. 
As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications
from customers from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification
or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers
by third parties.  These legal
proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in
substantial cost to us and divert our resources.  If we are not able to resolve a claim,
negotiate a settlement of a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially
reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement,
and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured
liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to
operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our product line or
using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in value of
inventories,  and our business, financial
condition or results of operations could be harmed.

 

It is also possible that from time to time we may be
subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant
expenses related to the defense of such claims, increased costs associated with
the replacement of affected products, and a requirement to pay damages
claims.  Because the systems into which
our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we
sell, these expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and
profits the company received from the products involved.  While we specifically exclude consequential
damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such
liabilities may be limited by applicable law. 
We do have product liability insurance, but there is no certainty that
insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect
against such claims.  Costs or payments
we may make in connection with warranty or product liability claims may
adversely affect the results of our operations.

 

Further, we sell to customers in industries such as
automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of their systems could cause
damage to property or persons. We may be subject to product liability claims if
our products cause the system failures. Based on our historical experience, we
believe that the risk of exposure to product liability claims is currently low.
However, we will face increased exposure to product liability claims if there
are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these
applications and the frequency of system failures caused by our devices.

 

Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in
lost revenue or market opportunities.

 

Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other
intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes
is important for our success.  To that
end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to
continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes.  The process of seeking patent protection can
be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or
future applications.  In addition, our
existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient
scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage
to us.  We may be subject to or may
ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, which can require significant financial and management resources.  In addition, the laws of certain foreign
countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as
the laws of the United States. 
Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could
result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us.

 

We do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers.

 

We do not typically enter into long-term contracts
with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our
customers.  When we do enter into
customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of
the customer.  Even though we have over
50,000 end customers and our ten largest customers make up approximately 10% of
our total revenue, cancellation of long-term and short-term customer contracts
could have an adverse financial impact on our revenue and profits.  

 

Further, as the practice has become more commonplace
in the industry, we have entered into contracts with certain customers that
differ from our standard terms of sale. Under these contracts we commit to
supply quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates.  If we become unable to supply the customer as
required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production
costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing
schedule, or quality related issues. Under these contracts, we may be liable
for the costs the customer has incurred. While we try to limit such
liabilities, if they should arise, there may be a material adverse impact on
our results of operation and financial condition.

 

15












 

Business interruptions could harm our business.

 

Operations at any of our manufacturing facilities, or
at any of our wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be
disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss,
incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health
issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure,
fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural disasters.  If operations at any of our facilities, or
our subcontractors’ facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift
production to other facilities on a timely basis.  If this occurs, we would likely experience
delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for
production may be unavailable on acceptable terms.  This could result in reduced revenues and
profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers.  In addition, business interruption insurance
will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and
any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions
could significantly harm our business.

 

We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us
to foreign political and economic risks.

 

Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial
portion of our net sales.  During fiscal
2006, approximately 74% of our net sales were made to foreign customers.  During fiscal 2005, approximately 73% of our
net sales were made to foreign customers. 
During fiscal 2004, approximately 71% of our net sales were made to
foreign customers.  We purchase a
substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign
suppliers.  In addition, we own product assembly
and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand.  We also use various foreign contractors for a
portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication
requirements.  Substantially all of our
finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand.

 

Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers,
maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods in inventory at foreign
locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and
economic risks, including, but not limited to:

 

•      political, social and economic instability

•      public health conditions

•      trade restrictions and changes in tariffs

•      import and export license requirements and
restrictions

•      difficulties in staffing and managing
international operations

•      employment regulations

•      disruptions in international transport or
delivery

•      fluctuations in currency exchange rates

•      difficulties in collecting receivables

•      economic slowdown in the worldwide markets
served by us, and

•      potentially adverse tax consequences.

 

If any of these risks materialize, our sales could
decrease and our operating results could suffer.

 

Interruptions in information technology systems could affect our
business.

 

We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of
complex information technology systems and networks to operate our
business.  Any significant system or
network disruption, including but not limited to computer viruses, security
breach, and energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations,
sales and operating results.  We have
implemented measures to manage our risks related to such disruptions, but such
disruptions could negatively impact our operations and financial results.  In addition, we may incur additional costs to
remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches.

 

The occurrence of events
for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits may affect our
profitability and liquidity.

 

We have insurance contracts with
independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk;
however, we self-insure for some risks and obligations.  In these circumstances, we have determined
that it is more cost effective to self-insure certain risks than to pay the
increased premium costs in place since the disruption in the insurance market
after the events of September 11, 2001. 
The risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited
to, product defects,

 

16












 

political risks, and patent infringement.  Should there be a loss or adverse judgment or
other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial
condition, result of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected.

 

We are subject to stringent environmental regulations, which may force
us to incur significant expenses.

 

We must comply with many different federal, state,
local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage,
discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used
in our manufacturing process.  Although
we believe that our activities conform to presently applicable environmental
regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could
result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of
operations.  Any such environmental
regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other
significant expenses to comply with such regulations.  Any failure by us to control the use of or
adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to
future liabilities.  Environmental
problems may occur that could subject us to future costs or liabilities.

 

Further, certain of our customers shipping their
products into European markets are also subject to governmental environmental
regulations such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and
Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) which will be effective July 1,
2006.  These directives focus on limiting
the amounts of certain elements, such as lead, in electrical devices.  The inability of this sub-set of our
customers to use Microchip products which contain lead after July 2006 may
adversely affect our results of operations.

 

Compliance with future changes to securities
laws and related regulations could result in increased costs to us. 

 

Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public
companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules
enacted and proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), The NASDAQ
Stock Market® (NASDAQ) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE),
resulted in significantly increased costs to us in fiscal 2005 as we responded
to their requirements.  In particular,
complying with the internal control audit requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley
Section 404 in fiscal 2005 resulted in increased internal efforts and
significantly higher fees from our independent accounting firm.  In fiscal 2006, our costs associated with
these activities were at approximately the same levels as in fiscal 2005.  Further changes in applicable legal or
accounting requirements could result in additional costs in future periods.

 

This report on Form 10-K contains a report by our
management on our internal control over financial reporting including an assessment
of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
March 31, 2006.  This Form 10-K also
contains an attestation and report by our auditors with respect to our
management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting under Section 404.  While these
assessments and reports did not reveal any material weaknesses in our internal
control over financial reporting, compliance with Section 404 is an ongoing
process and will be required for each future fiscal year.  We expect that the ongoing compliance with
Section 404 will continue to be both very costly and very challenging and there
can be no assurance that material weaknesses with not be identified in future
periods.  Any adverse results from such
ongoing compliance efforts could result in a loss of investor confidence in our
financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price.

 

Recent regulations related to equity compensation will adversely affect
our earnings and our ability to attract and retain key personnel.   

 

Since our inception, we have used stock options and
other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee
compensation packages and have accounted for them using the intrinsic value
method of APB No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.”  We believe that stock options and other
long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize
long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage
employees to remain with Microchip.  In
December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based
Payments,” (“SFAS 123R”) which changed U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles in such a way to require us to record a charge to earnings for the
fair value of employee stock option grants and other share based compensation
beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. 
This regulation will negatively impact our earnings for those share
based awards that vest beginning in fiscal 2007.  Furthermore, adoption of SFAS 123R will
require us to make certain assumptions and judgments in the valuation of stock
options that we may grant in the future.  A change in any of those assumptions or
judgments could change the compensation expense that is charged against our
earnings and, consequently, adversely affect our results of operations.  See also Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements – Significant Accounting Policies: 
Share-Based Payment.  

 

17












 

In addition, recent regulations implemented by NASDAQ
requiring shareholder approval for all stock option plans as well as recent
regulations implemented by NYSE prohibiting NYSE member organizations from
giving a proxy to vote on equity-compensation plans unless the beneficial owner
of the shares has given voting instructions could make it more difficult for us
to grant equity-based awards to employees in the future.  To the extent that these or other new
regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees,
we may incur compensation costs, productivity losses, change our equity
compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate
employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business.

 

The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide
fluctuations in response to a variety of factors.

 

The market price of our common stock has fluctuated
significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future.  The future trading price of our common stock
could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many
of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:

 

•      quarterly variations in our operating
results and the operating results of other technology companies

•      actual or anticipated announcements of
technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors

•      changes in analysts’ estimates of our
financial performance or buy/sell recommendations

•      changes in our financial guidance or our
failure to meet such guidance

•      general conditions in the semiconductor
industry, and

•      worldwide economic and financial
conditions.

 

In addition, the stock market has experienced significant
price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices
for many high technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the
operating performance of such companies. 
These broad market fluctuations and other factors may harm the market
price of our common stock.

 

The
outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns
by the IRS could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

We are subject to continued examination of our income
tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We
regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these
examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There
can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will
not have an adverse effect on future operating results.

 

In
the event we make acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate
such acquisitions or attain the anticipated benefits.

 

While acquisitions do not represent a major part of
our growth strategy, from time to time we may consider financially attractive
and strategic acquisitions if such opportunities arise. Any transactions that
we complete may involve a number of risks, including:  the diversion of our management’s attention
from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the
acquired or combined business or joint venture, or possible adverse effects on
our operating results during the integration process.  In addition, we may not be able to
successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly
acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform
standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational
inefficiencies.

 

Item 1B