Item 1A.
Risk Factors” and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements set forth in
Exhibit 13 hereto for additional information.

Markets and Distribution Methods

          We
sell most of our medical devices through direct sales representatives in the
U.S. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent
distributors in international markets. The three largest markets for our
medical devices are the U.S., Western Europe, and Japan. Markets outside the
U.S. are an area of increasing focus and opportunity as we believe they remain
under penetrated. 

          In
December 2008, we announced the completion of our equity investment in Shandong
Weigao Group Medical Polymer Company Limited (Weigao). In connection with this
transaction, we initiated with Weigao a joint venture to market in China our
spinal products and Weigao’s orthopedic products which include therapies for
the hip, shoulder, spine and trauma. The joint venture entity commenced
operations in September 2008, with an affiliate of Medtronic holding a 51
percent interest in the joint venture and Weigao holding the remaining 49
percent interest. These efforts enable us to further build on our product,
distribution and marketing platforms, improving our strategic position to take
advantage of existing and future opportunities in manufacturing and
distribution in the spinal, orthopedic and trauma sectors in China.

          Our
marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of
high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide – including
physicians, hospitals, other medical institutions, and group purchasing
organizations. To achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales
teams around physician specialties. This focus enables us to develop highly
knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong
relationships with physicians and other customers, and enhance our ability to
cross-sell complementary products. We believe that we maintain excellent
working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry that
enable us to gain a detailed understanding of therapeutic and diagnostic
developments, trends and emerging opportunities, and respond quickly to the
changing needs of physicians and patients. We attempt to enhance our presence
in the medical community through active participation in medical meetings and
by conducting comprehensive training and educational activities. We believe
that these activities contribute to physician expertise.

          In
keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare
delivery, the current trend among hospitals and other customers of medical
device manufacturers is to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance
purchasing power. As a result, transactions with customers have become
increasingly significant, more complex, and tend to involve more long-term
contracts than in the past. This enhanced purchasing power may also lead to
pressure on pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. We are not dependent
on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales.

Competition and Industry

          We
compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 120
countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change
resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the
product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging
from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers
that offer a limited selection of products. In addition, we face competition
from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical
companies.

23



Table of Contents



          Major
shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product
problems, physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of
product quality in the medical device industry. In the current environment of
managed care, economically motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare
providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have
been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to
continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced
technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain
regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully
market these products.

Worldwide Operations

          For
financial reporting purposes, net sales and long-lived assets attributable to
significant geographic areas are presented in Note 18 to the consolidated
financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto and will be included in our
2009 Annual Report.



Impact of Business Outside of the U.S.

          Our
operations in countries outside the U.S. are accompanied by certain financial
and other risks. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary
by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.
Inventory management is an important business concern due to the potential for
obsolescence, long lead times from sole source providers and currency exposure.
Currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect net sales from, and
profitability of, operations outside the U.S. We attempt to hedge these
exposures to reduce the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on net
earnings. See the “Market Risk” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 9 to the consolidated
financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto and will be included in our
2009 Annual Report. In addition, the repatriation of certain earnings of our
foreign subsidiaries’ may result in substantial U.S. tax cost.

Production and Availability of Raw Materials

          We
manufacture most of our products at 22 manufacturing facilities located in
various countries throughout the world. The largest of these manufacturing
facilities are located in Arizona, California, Florida, Indiana, Ireland,
Massachusetts, Mexico, Minnesota, Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Texas, and Washington.
We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing
these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For reasons of
quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness, certain
components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. We work
closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while
maintaining high quality and reliability. Due to the FDA’s requirements
regarding manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish
additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials.
Generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials
and components. However, the reduction or interruption in supply, and an
inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely
affect our operations.

24



Table of Contents



Employees

          On
April 24, 2009, we employed approximately 41,000 employees (including full-time
equivalent employees). Our employees are vital to our success. We believe we
have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a
highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and
benefits, and our rewarding work environment. We believe our employee relations
are excellent.

Seasonality

          Worldwide
sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality.

Government Regulation and Other
Considerations

          Our
medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies,
including the FDA and comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of
these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of
our medical devices.

          Authorization
to commercially distribute a new medical device in the U.S. is generally
received in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the
510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device is
substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. In this process,
we must submit data that supports our equivalence claim. If human clinical data
is required, it must be gathered in compliance with FDA investigational device
exemption regulations. We must receive an order from the FDA finding
substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device before we
can commercially distribute the new medical device. Modifications to cleared
medical devices can be made without using the 510(k) process if the changes do
not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. A very small number of our
devices are exempt from pre-market review.

          The
second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (PMA), requires us
to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective.
We do this by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal
testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. The FDA will authorize
commercial release if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the
medical device is safe and effective. This determination is based on benefit
outweighing risk for the population intended to be treated with the device.
This process is much more detailed, time-consuming and expensive than the
510(k) process. A third process for approval exists for products intended for
orphan populations, which is less than 4,000 patients per year in the U.S. This
exemption is similar to the PMA process, however, a full showing of product
effectiveness from large clinical trials is not required. The threshold for
these products is probable benefit and safety.

          Both
before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing
responsibilities under FDA regulations. The FDA reviews design and
manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers’
required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify
potential problems with marketed medical devices. We are also subject to
periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s quality system
regulations among other FDA requirements, such as restrictions on advertising
and promotion. The quality system regulations govern the methods used in, and
the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging and
servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. If the FDA
were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or
regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an
unreasonable health risk, the FDA could require us to notify health
professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of
substantial harm to the public health, order a recall, repair, replacement, or
refund of such devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical
devices, or ban such medical devices. The FDA may also impose operating
restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law
pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against
our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the
Department of Justice.

25



Table of Contents



          The
FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), administers
controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. The CBP imposes its
own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection
and possible sanctions for noncompliance. The FDA also administers certain
controls over the export of medical devices from the U.S. International sales
of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval are subject to FDA
export requirements. Many foreign countries to which we export medical devices
also subject such medical devices to their own regulatory requirements.
Frequently, we obtain regulatory approval for medical devices in foreign countries
first because their regulatory approval is faster or simpler than that of the
FDA. However, as a general matter, foreign regulatory requirements are becoming
increasingly common and more stringent.

          In
the European Union, a single regulatory approval process has been created, and
approval is represented by the CE Mark. To obtain a CE Mark in the European
Union, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety and
quality (i.e., the essential requirements) and then comply with one or more of
a selection of conformity routes. A notified body assesses the quality
management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the
essential and other requirements within the medical device directive. Medtronic
is subject to inspection by notified bodies for compliance. The competent
authorities of the European Union countries, generally in the form of their
departments of health, oversee the clinical research for medical devices and
are responsible for the products once they are in commercial distribution. We
are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to
product use to these authorities in a timely manner. Various penalties exist
for non-compliance with the medical device directives. 

          To
be sold in Japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety
examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval,
or “shonin.” The Japanese government, through the Ministry of Health, Labour,
and Welfare (MHLW), regulates medical devices under the Pharmaceutical Affairs
Law (PAL). Oversight for medical devices is conducted with participation by the
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA), a quasi government
organization performing many of the review functions for MHLW. Penalties for a
company’s noncompliance with PAL could be severe, including revocation or
suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. MHLW and
PMDA also assess the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the
product conformity to the requirements of the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law.
Medtronic is subject to inspection for compliance by these agencies.

          The
process of obtaining approval to distribute medical products is costly and
time-consuming in virtually all of the major markets where we sell medical
devices. We cannot assure that any new medical devices we develop will be
approved in a timely or cost-effective manner or approved at all.

          Federal
and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health
information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and
disclosure of patient health information by healthcare providers. In
particular, in April 2003, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) published patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA privacy rule) and, in April 2005,
published security rules for protected health information. The HIPAA privacy
and security rules govern the use, disclosure and security of protected health
information by “Covered Entities,” which are healthcare providers that submit
electronic claims, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. In 2009,
Congress passed the HITECH Act, which modified certain provisions of the HIPAA privacy
and security rules for Covered Entities and their Business Associates (which is
anyone that performs a service on behalf of a Covered Entity involving the use
or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the
covered entity’s workforce). These included directing HHS to publish more
specific security standards, and increasing breach notification requirements,
as well as tightening certain aspects of the privacy rules. In addition, the
HITECH Act provided that Business Associates will now be subject to the same
security requirements as Covered Entities, and that with regard to both the
security and privacy rule, Business Associates will be subject to direct
enforcement by HHS, including civil and criminal liability, just as Covered
Entities are. In the past, HIPAA has generally affected us indirectly.
Medtronic is generally not a Covered Entity, except for a few units such as our
Diabetes operating segment and our health insurance plans. Medtronic only
operates as a Business Associate to Covered Entities in a limited number of
instances. In those cases, the patient data that we receive and analyze may
include protected health information. We are committed to maintaining the
security and privacy of patients’ health information and believe that we meet
the expectations of the HIPAA rules. Some modifications to our systems and
policies may be necessary, but the framework is already in place. However, the
potential for enforcement action against us is now greater, as HHS can take
action directly against Business Associates. Thus, while we believe we are and
will be in compliance with all HIPAA standards, there is no guarantee that the
government will not disagree. Enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt
regular operations of our business. Nonetheless, these new requirements affect
only a small portion of our business. We believe the ongoing costs and impacts
of assuring compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security rules are not
material to our business.

26



Table of Contents



          Government
and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs,
including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies,
comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and
managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do
business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put
increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices.
Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private healthcare
insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting
the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or
treatments, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain
costs, including, for example, gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with
physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from the physicians’
collective change in practice patterns such as standardization of devices where
medically appropriate. This has created an increasing level of price
sensitivity among customers for our products. Some third-party payors must also
approve coverage for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will
reimburse healthcare providers who use the medical devices or therapies. Even
though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution,
we may find limited demand for the device until reimbursement approval has been
obtained from governmental and private third-party payors. In addition, some
private third-party payors require that certain procedures or that the use of
certain products be authorized in advance as a condition of reimbursement. As a
result of our manufacturing efficiencies and cost controls, we believe we are
well-positioned to respond to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward
cost-containment; however, uncertainty remains as to the nature of any future
legislation, making it difficult for us to predict the potential impact of
cost-containment trends on future operating results.

          The
delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by HHS and comparable state
and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of healthcare
items and services. U.S. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in
connection with the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as the government’s
interest in regulating the quality and cost of healthcare. Foreign governments
also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement
programs and the delivery of healthcare items and services.

          Federal
healthcare laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services
that are reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded
healthcare programs. The principal federal laws include: (1) the False Claims
Act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for
payment to a federally-funded health care program; (2) the Anti-Kickback
Statute which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for
the purpose of inducing or rewarding referrals of items or services
reimbursable by a Federal healthcare program; and (3) the Stark law which
prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider
that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health
services if the physician (or a member of the physician’s immediate family) has
a financial relationship with that provider; and (4) healthcare fraud statutes
that prohibit false statements and improper claims with any third-party payor.
There are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self
referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded Medicaid and other
healthcare programs and private third-party payors. In addition, the U.S.
Federal Corrupt Practices Act can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S.
for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the U.S. if the
physician or party is a government official of another country and the
arrangement violates the law of that country.

          The
laws applicable to us are subject to change, and to evolving interpretations.
If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations, Medtronic and its officers and employees could
be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including substantial
penalties, fines and damages, and exclusion from participation as a supplier of
product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare or Medicaid.

          We
operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent
litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could
prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant
royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time,
we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent
infringement actions. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent
litigation incident to our business, we believe the costs associated with this
type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
results of operations, financial position or cash flows. See Note 16 to the
consolidated financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto as well as our
2009 Annual Report for additional information.

27



Table of Contents



          We
operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims.
These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf
or purporting to represent a class. In addition, product liability claims may
be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the
present time.

          We
are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and
outside the U.S. Like other medical device companies, our operations involve
the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily
manufacturing and sterilization processes. To the best of our knowledge at this
time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will
have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial
position, or cash flows.

          We
have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks, including medical and
dental costs, disability coverage, physical loss to property, business
interruptions, workers’ compensation, comprehensive general, director and
officer, and product liability. Decisions to self-insure are based on
comparisons between the price of insurance and the economic value of insurance
coverage. Currently, external insurance is not considered to be an economically
sound means of financing losses for the Company. We continue to monitor the
insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance
coverage in the future. Based on historical loss trends, we believe that our
self-insurance program accruals will be adequate to cover future losses.
Historical trends, however, may not be indicative of future losses. These
losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows.

Executive Officers of Medtronic

          Set
forth below are the names and ages of current executive officers of Medtronic,
Inc., as well as information regarding their positions with Medtronic, their
periods of service in these capacities, and their business experiences. There
are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any
arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an
officer.

          William
A. Hawkins, age 55, has been a Director of Medtronic
since March 2007 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since August 2008. He
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic since from August
2007 to August 2008 and as President and Chief Operating Officer from May 2004
to August 2007. He served as Senior Vice President and President, Medtronic
Vascular, from January 2002 to May 2004. He served as President and Chief
Executive Officer of Novoste Corporation from 1998 to 2002. He is also a member
of the board of visitors of the Engineering School of Duke University and the
Guthrie Theatre board.

          Susan
Alpert, Ph.D., M.D., age 63, has been Senior Vice
President, Chief Regulatory Officer since May 2008. Prior to that, she was
Senior Vice President, Chief Quality and Regulatory Officer from November 2005
to May 2008, and prior to that, Vice President, Chief Quality and Regulatory
Officer from May 2004 to November 2005, and Vice President, Regulatory Affairs
and Compliance from July 2003 to May 2004. Prior to that, she was Vice President
of Regulatory Sciences at C.R. Bard, Inc. from October 2000 to July 2003. She
held a variety of positions at the FDA from June 1987 to August 2000.

          Martha
Goldberg Aronson, age 41, has been Senior Vice
President and Chief Talent Officer since March 2008. Prior to that, she was
Vice President, Investor Relations from May 2006 to March 2008, Vice President
of the Neurological, Gastroenterology/Urology, Obesity Management,
ENT/Neurologic Technology and Diabetes businesses in Western Europe from May
2003 to May 2006 and Vice President and General Manager of Medtronic
Gastroenterology/Urology from 2001 to May 2003. She joined Medtronic in April
1991, from Bain & Company, a global management consulting firm.

          Robert
H. Blankemeyer, age 62, has been Senior Vice
President and President of Surgical Technologies since June 2008. Prior to
that, he was President of the Ear, Nose & Throat and Neurologic
Technologies business unit from April 2000 until its merger into Surgical
Technologies in 2008. Prior to joining Medtronic, he was President of Storz
Ophthalmics Inc., where he held several business leadership positions.

          Jean-Luc
Butel, age 52, has been Senior Vice President and
President, International since May 2008. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice
President and President, Asia Pacific from August 2003 to May 2008 and
President of Independence Technology, a Johnson & Johnson company, from
1999 to 2003. From 1991 to 1999, he worked for Becton Dickinson and Company, initially as
General Manager of its Microbiology business in Japan and then as President of
Nippon Becton Dickinson. His last assignment at Becton, Dickinson and Company
was President, Worldwide Consumer Healthcare.

28



Table of Contents



          H.
James Dallas, age 50, has been Senior Vice
President, Quality and Operations since April 2008. Prior to that he was Senior
Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Medtronic from April 2006 to
April 2008. He was Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Georgia
Pacific Corporation from December 2002 to December 2005; General Manager of the
Transportation Division and President of the Lumber Division of Georgia
Pacific Corporation from October 2001
to December 2002; and Vice President, Building Products Distribution Sales and
Logistics, Georgia Pacific Corporation from October 2000 to October 2001.

          Gary
L. Ellis, age 52, has been Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior to that, he was Vice
President, Corporate Controller and Treasurer since October 1999 and Vice
President Corporate Controller from August 1994. Mr. Ellis joined Medtronic in
1989 as Assistant Corporate Controller and was promoted to Vice President of
Finance for Medtronic Europe in 1992, until being named as Corporate Controller
in 1994. Mr. Ellis is a member of the board of directors of The Toro Company
and past chairman of the American Heart Association.

          Richard
Kuntz, M.D., age 52, has been Senior Vice
President and President, Neuromodulation since October 2005. Prior to that, he
was an interventional cardiologist and Chief of the Division of Clinical
Biometrics at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Associate Professor of Medicine and
Chief Scientific Officer of the Harvard Clinical Research Institute.

          Steve
La Neve, age 50, has been Senior Vice President
and President Spinal and Biologics since April 2008. Prior to that, he was
President of Medtronic Japan from April 2004 to April 2008. He was Senior Vice
President of Business Development and Supplier Integration and Executive Vice
President of Relationship Management at Premier, Inc. from September 2000 to
March 2004. He was Vice President and General Manager and Director of Sales and
Marketing at Becton, Dickinson and Company from March 1990 to August 2000, and
prior to that, he held other healthcare management roles with Hoffmann-La Roche
and EM Diagnostic Systems.

          James
P. Mackin, age 42, has been Senior Vice President
and President Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) since August 2007. Prior
to that, he was Vice President, CRDM Commercial Operations from November 2006
to August 2007 and Vice President, Vascular, Western Europe, from July 2004 to
November 2006. He was Vice President and General Manager of Medtronic
Vascular’s Endovascular business from October 2002 to July 2004. Prior to
joining Medtronic, he served in a number of sales and executive positions at
Genzyme Corporation from 1996 to 2004.

          Stephen
H. Mahle, age 63, has been Executive Vice
President Healthcare Policy and Regulatory since April 2008. Prior to that he
was Executive Vice President and Senior Healthcare Policy Advisor from August
2007 to April 2008, and prior to that was Executive Vice President and
President, Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management since May 2004. He was Senior Vice
President and President, Cardiac Rhythm Management, since January 1998. Prior
to that, he was President, Brady Pacing, from 1995 to 1997 and Vice President
and General Manager, Brady Pacing, from 1990 to 1995. Mr. Mahle has been with
the Company for 36 years and served in various general management positions
prior to 1990. Mr. Mahle serves on the board of directors of ATMI, Inc.

          Christopher
J. O’Connell, age 42, has been Senior Vice
President and President, Diabetes, since October 2006. Prior to that, he was
President of Medtronic’s Emergency Response Systems division from May 2005 to
October 2006, and prior to that, he was Vice President of Sales and Marketing
of Medtronic’s Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management division from November 2001 to
May 2005 and Vice President/General Manager of the Patient Management Business
from January 2000 to November 2001. Mr. O’Connell has served in various
management positions since joining the Company in 1994.

          Stephen
N. Oesterle, M.D., age 58, has been Senior Vice
President, Medicine and Technology, since January 2002. Prior to that, he was
Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Director of
Invasive Cardiology Services at Massachusetts General Hospital from 1998 to
2002, and was Associate Professor of Medicine at Stanford University and
Director of Cardiac Catheterization and Coronary Intervention Laboratories at
the Stanford University Medical Center from 1992 to 1998. Prior to that he held
other academic positions and directed interventional cardiology programs at
Georgetown University and in Los Angeles, CA.

29



Table of Contents



          Catherine
Szyman, age 42, has been Senior Vice President,
Strategy and Innovation since April 2008. Prior to that, she was Vice President
and General Manager of Endovascular Innovations, part of the CardioVascular
business unit, from October 2004 to April 2008. From 1991 to 2004, she held
numerous management and leadership roles at Medtronic, including Vice President
of Corporate Strategy and Vice President of Finance for the Vascular business.

          Scott
R. Ward, age 49, has been Senior Vice President
and President, CardioVascular since May 2007. Prior to that he was Senior Vice
President and President, Vascular from May 2004 to May 2007, Senior Vice
President and President, Neurological and Diabetes Business, from February 2002
to May 2004, and was President, Neurological, from January 2000 to January
2002. He was Vice President and General Manager of Medtronic’s Drug Delivery
Business from 1995 to 2000. Prior to that, Mr. Ward led the Company’s
Neurological Ventures in the successful development of new therapies. Mr. Ward
also held various research, regulatory and business development positions since
joining Medtronic in 1981. He is also a board member of MAP Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. 

Item 1A.
Risk Factors

          Investing
in Medtronic involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown,
including, among others, those discussed below.

          The
medical device industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete
effectively. 

          We
compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 120
countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change
resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the
product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging
from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers
that offer a limited selection of products. Development by other companies of
new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our products or
proposed products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from
providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies.
Competitive factors include:




 


 


 




 


•


product
 reliability,




 


 


 




 


•


product
 performance,




 


 


 




 


•


product
 technology,




 


 


 




 


•


product
 quality,




 


 


 




 


•


breadth of
 product lines,




 


 


 




 


•


product
 services,




 


 


 




 


•


customer
 support,




 


 


 




 


•


price, and




 


 


 




 


•


reimbursement
 approval from healthcare insurance providers.




          Major
shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product
problems, physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of
product quality in the medical device industry. In the current environment of
managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition,
and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to
compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to compete effectively, we
must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate
this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a
timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Given
these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level
of success in the industry.

30



Table of Contents



          Reduction
or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for
supply may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product
sales. 

          We
manufacture most of our products at 22 manufacturing facilities located
throughout the world. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used
in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries.
Generally we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials
and components. However, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness,
or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials only from a
sole supplier. While we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure
continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot
guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to the
stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA regarding the manufacture of
our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement
sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in
supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could
adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost
effective manner and to make our related product sales.

          Our
industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental
authorities, which may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future. 

          Our
medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation,
including by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental
authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing
their scrutiny of our industry. For example, we have received inquiries from
members of Congress and other government agencies regarding a variety of
matters. In addition, certain states have recently passed or are considering
legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and
requiring disclosure of many payments to them. Also, while recent case law has
clarified that the FDA’s authority over medical devices preempts state tort
laws, legislation has been introduced at the Federal level to allow state
intervention. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our
industry closely, and that additional regulation by governmental authorities
may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects
to our operations.

          We
are subject to many laws and governmental regulations and any adverse
regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and
business operations. 

          Our
medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies,
including the FDA and comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of
these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of
our medical devices. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain
marketing clearance for our new products, or enhancements or modifications to
existing products, and if we do, such approval may:




 


 


 




 


•


take a
 significant amount of time,




 


 


 




 


•


require the
 expenditure of substantial resources,




 


 


 




 


•


involve
 stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing,




 


 


 




 


•


involve
 modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and




 


 


 




 


•


result in
 limitations on the proposed uses of our products.




          Both
before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing
responsibilities under FDA regulations. If the FDA were to conclude that we are
not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our
medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA
could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded
medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such
devices, and require us to notify health professionals and others that the
devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health.
The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain
violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or
criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also
recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory
action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing
and selling our products.

          Foreign
governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common,
and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental
authorities in the future. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance with foreign
governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of
a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. Any domestic or foreign
governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material
adverse effect on us.

31



Table of Contents



          We
are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and
outside the U.S. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under
environmental laws, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization
processes. We cannot guarantee that compliance with environmental protection
laws and regulations will not have a material impact on our consolidated
earnings, financial condition, or cash flows.

          Our
failure to comply with strictures relating to reimbursement and regulation of
healthcare goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact
our reputation and business operations. 

          Our
devices are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by the HHS,
including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) as well as
comparable state and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and
regulation of healthcare goods and services. Foreign governments also impose
regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement programs and the
delivery of healthcare goods and services. U.S. federal government healthcare
laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a U.S. federal healthcare
program beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim for an item or service
that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal government funded healthcare program,
such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated
include those that prohibit the filing of false or improper claims for federal
payment, those that prohibit unlawful inducements for the referral of business
reimbursable under federally-funded healthcare programs, known as the
anti-kickback laws, and those that prohibit healthcare service providers
seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was
referred by a physician that has certain types of direct or indirect financial
relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark law.

          The
laws applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a
governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be
subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example,
exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered
by CMS. If we are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation
it could adversely affect our reputation and business operations.

          Quality
problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for
producing high quality products and erode our competitive advantage. 

          Quality
is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly
consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the
marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards
our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue could
decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally
on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision engineered
components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our
components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards,
our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality components will be harmed, our
competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market
share.

          We
are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing
to be successful in patent or other litigation may result in our payment of
significant money damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our
ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our
patent and proprietary rights against others. 

          We
operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent
litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could
prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay
significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected
products. At any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and
a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which
may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to
predict the outcome of patent litigation incident to our business, we believe
the results associated with any litigation could result in our payment of
significant money damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our
ability to sell current or future products or prohibit us from enforcing our
patent and proprietary rights against others, which would generally have a
material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or
cash flows.

32



Table of Contents



          We
rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure and
non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property,
and will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against any threats to
our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these patents, trade
secrets, or other agreements will adequately protect our intellectual property.
There can also be no assurance that pending patent applications owned by us
will result in patents issuing to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us
in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by
competitors or that such patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently
broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive
advantage. Third parties could also obtain patents that may require us to
negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and there can be no assurance that
the required licenses would be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also
rely on nondisclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees,
consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other
proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be
breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will
not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or
that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or
proprietary knowledge.

          Product
liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and our
earnings and impair our reputation. 

          Our
business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in
the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of
the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the
human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws,
design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or
product-related information with respect to these or other products we
manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death
of, a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product
liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of
our products which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal
from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith.
We have elected to self-insure with respect to product liability risks. Product
liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate
outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation
and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products.

          Our
self-insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. 

          We
have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. We made this decision
based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly
higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage limitations
and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We continue to monitor the
insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance
coverage in the future. While based on historical loss trends we believe that
our self-insurance program accruals will be adequate to cover future losses, we
cannot guarantee that this will remain true. Historical trends may not be
indicative of future losses. These losses could have a material adverse impact
on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash flows.

          If
we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to
reduce our expenses, our results of operations will suffer. 

          We
may experience decreasing prices for the goods and services we offer due to
pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations
and other third-party payors; increased market power of our customers as the
medical device industry consolidates; and increased competition among medical
engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our goods
and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of
operations will be adversely affected.

          We
are subject to a variety of risks due to our international operations that
could adversely affect those operations or our profitability and operating
results. 

          Our
operations in countries outside the U.S., which accounted for 38 percent of our
net sales for the year ended April 24, 2009, are accompanied by certain
financial and other risks. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities
in sales internationally, which could expose us to greater risks associated
with international sales and operations. Our profitability and international
operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and
potential costs, including:

33



Table of Contents






 


 


 




 


•


changes in
 foreign medical reimbursement programs and policies,




 


 


 




 


•


changes in
 foreign regulatory requirements,




 


 


 




 


•


local
 product preferences and product requirements,




 


 


 




 


•


longer-term
 receivables than are typical in the U.S.,




 


 


 




 


•


fluctuations
 in foreign currency exchange rates,




 


 


 




 


•


less
 protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.,




 


 


 




 


•


trade
 protection measures and import and export licensing requirements,




 


 


 




 


•


work force
 instability,




 


 


 




 


•


political
 and economic instability, and




 


 


 




 


•


the
 potential payment of U.S. income taxes on certain earnings of our foreign
 subsidiaries’ upon repatriation.






          In particular, the Obama administration has announced potential
 legislative proposals to tax profits of U.S. companies earned abroad. While it is impossible for us to predict whether these and other proposals will be
 implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may materially impact our results of operations if, for example, our profits
 earned abroad are subject to U.S. income tax or we are otherwise disallowed deductions as a result of these profits.


          Consolidation
in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and
results of operations. 

          Many
healthcare industry companies, including medical device companies, are
consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the
healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to
industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may
try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for
medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we are forced to
reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues
would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash
flows would suffer.

          Healthcare
policy changes, including pending proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. 

          Healthcare
costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and
continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to
keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations
on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement
available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors.
These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial
position and results of operations.

          Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant
reforms to the U.S. healthcare system. Both the U.S. Senate and House of
Representatives have conducted hearings about U.S. healthcare reform. In the
Obama administration's fiscal year 2010 federal budget proposal, the
administration emphasized maintaining patient choice, reducing inefficiencies
and costs, increasing prevention programs, increasing coverage portability and
universality, improving quality of care and maintaining fiscal sustainability.
The Obama administration's fiscal year 2010 budget included proposals to limit
Medicare payments, reduce drug spending and increase taxes. In addition, members
of Congress have proposed a single-payer healthcare system, a government health
insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public
healthcare measures. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at
the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be
implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation
or regulation will have on us. However, an expansion in government’s role
in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products,
reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly
materially.

          Our
business is indirectly subject to healthcare industry cost containment measures
that could result in reduced sales of medical devices containing our
components. 

          Most
of our customers, and the healthcare providers to whom our customers supply
medical devices, rely on third-party payors, including government programs and
private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the
procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture
or assemble are used. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies,
and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs could
lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these
third-party payors. If that were to occur, sales of finished medical devices
that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may
reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost containment measures
that healthcare providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and
internationally, could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example,
managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for
pharmaceuticals. While this type of discount pricing does not currently exist
for medical devices, if managed care or other organizations were able to affect
discount pricing for devices, it may result in lower prices to our customers
from their customers and, in turn, reduce the amounts we can charge our
customers for our medical devices.

          Our
research and development efforts rely upon investments and alliances, and we
cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or alliances will be
successful. 

          Our
strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller,
healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and
capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical
industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine
make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of
technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our
research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to
continue to rely, upon investments and alliances to provide us access to new
technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new
areas.

34



Table of Contents



          We
expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the
development of, or acquire, new technologies and products to further our
strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and
alliances in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we
cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or alliances
will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated
earnings, financial condition, or cash flows.

          The
success of many of our products depends upon strong relationships with
physicians. 

          If
we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our
products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and
expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could
cause a decline in earnings and profitability. The research, development,
marketing, and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon
our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these
professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience
regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians assist us
as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and as public
speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these
professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development
and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material effect
on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash flows.

          Negative
conditions in the global credit market may impair our commercial paper program,
our auction rate securities and our other fixed income securities, which may
cause losses and cause us to face liquidity issues. 

          We
have investments in marketable debt securities which are classified and
accounted for as available-for-sale. Our debt securities include government securities,
commercial paper, corporate bonds, bank certificates of deposit, and mortgage
backed and other asset backed securities, including auction rate securities.
Recent market conditions indicate significant uncertainty on the part of
investors on the economic outlook for the U.S. and for financial institutions
that have potential exposure to the sub-prime housing market. This uncertainty
has created reduced liquidity across the fixed income investment market,
including the securities that we invest in. As a result, some of our
investments have experienced reduced liquidity. In the event we need to sell
these securities, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner or for a value
that is equal to the underlying principal. In addition, we may be required to
adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge. If
we determine that the fair value of the securities is temporarily impaired, we
would record a temporary impairment within other comprehensive income, a
component of shareholders’ equity. If it is determined that the fair value of
these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, we would record a loss in
our consolidated statements of earnings, which could materially adversely
impact our results of operations and financial condition.

          Additionally,
if uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue, these markets
deteriorate further or we experience any rating downgrades on any investments
in our portfolio, funds associated with these securities may not be liquid or
available to fund current operations, and/or we may incur further temporary or
other-than-temporary impairments in the carrying value of our investments,
which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported
earnings. Negative market conditions may also impair our ability to access the
capital markets through the issuance of commercial paper or debt securities, or
may impact our ability to sell such securities at a reasonable price, and may
negatively impact our ability to borrow from financial institutions.

Item 1B