. Risk Factors” and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time.We are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and outside the U.S. Like other medical device companies, our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. To the best of our knowledge at this time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. We made this decision based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage limitations, and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We maintain a directors and officers insurance policy providing limited coverage and we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. While, based on historical loss trends, we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses. Historical trends, however, may not be indicative of future losses. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amendedUnder Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Company is required to include certain disclosures in its periodic reports if the Company or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during fiscal year 2013. As of October 9, 2012, all of Medtronic's business dealings with Iran (including business conducted by non-U.S. affiliates) have been conducted pursuant to general or specific licenses issued by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls (OFAC). Medtronic and its affiliates plan to continue their existing activities and operations with Iran in accordance with such general or specific licenses. In October 2012, the U.S. sanctions against Iran were extended to entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons. Prior to such time, it was permissible under U.S. law for independent non-U.S. subsidiaries of U.S. companies to engage in sales to Iranian customers under certain limited circumstances without the need for OFAC authorization. In accordance with these requirements, and without the involvement of U.S. persons, certain of Medtronic's non‑U.S. subsidiaries engaged in lawful sales to Iran during the first two quarters of fiscal year 2013 from its CRDM, Coronary, Structural Heart, Endovascular, Spine, Neuromodulation, Diabetes, and Surgical Technologies businesses. Other sales to or for Iranian customers during the first two quarters of fiscal year 2013 were 15Table of Contentsundertaken pursuant to specific licenses issued by OFAC. The Iranian sales were generally conducted through distributors, some of whose customers included public hospitals which may be owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Iranian government. Certain of these sales were also made to a non-governmental entity which sells to the Iranian Ministry of Health. All activities by the Company and its non-U.S. subsidiaries with entities in Iran, including certain governmental entities, in the first two quarters of fiscal year 2013 resulted in approximately $25 million in gross revenue and approximately $16 million in net profits (excluding selling, general, and administrative expenses and allocations).    Executive Officers of MedtronicSet forth below are the names and ages of current Section 16(b) executive officers of Medtronic, Inc., as well as information regarding their positions with Medtronic, their periods of service in these capacities, and their business experiences. There are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.Omar Ishrak, age 57, has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic since June 2011. Prior to joining Medtronic, Mr. Ishrak served as President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Systems, a division of GE Healthcare, from 2009 to 2011. Before that, Mr. Ishrak was President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Clinical Systems from 2005 to 2008 and President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Ultrasound and BMD from 1995 to 2004.Michael J. Coyle, age 50, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Cardiac and Vascular Group since December 2009. Prior to that, he served as President of the Cardiac Rhythm Management division at St. Jude from 2001 to 2007, and prior positions included serving St. Jude as President of the company’s Daig Catheter division and numerous leadership positions at Eli Lilly & Company. H. James Dallas, age 54, is a Senior Vice President of the Company. On May 1, 2013, he announced his retirement, effective September 2, 2013. In April 2008, he was named Senior Vice President, Quality and Operations. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Medtronic from April 2006 to April 2008. Before joining Medtronic, he held several executive positions at Georgia Pacific Corporation. Mr. Dallas is a member of the board of directors of KeyCorp.Gary L. Ellis, age 56, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior to that, he was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Treasurer since October 1999 and Vice President and Corporate Controller from August 1994 to October 1999. Mr. Ellis joined Medtronic in 1989 as Assistant Corporate Controller and was promoted to Vice President of Finance for Medtronic Europe in 1992, until being named as Corporate Controller in 1994. Mr. Ellis is a member of the board of directors of The Toro Company and past chairman of the American Heart Association.D. Cameron Findlay, age 53, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2009. Prior to that, Mr. Findlay was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Aon Corporation from August 2003 to June 2009. Prior to joining Aon, Mr. Findlay served as the U.S. Deputy Secretary of Labor. Before joining the Labor Department in June 2001, Mr. Findlay was a partner at the law firm now known as Sidley Austin LLP. Before that, he served in the White House as an aide to U.S. President George H. W. Bush.Richard Kuntz, M.D., age 56, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific, Clinical and Regulatory Officer since August 2009. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President, Neuromodulation from October 2005 to August 2009; and prior to that, he was an interventional cardiologist and Chief of the Division of Clinical Biometrics at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Associate Professor of Medicine and Chief Scientific Officer of the Harvard Clinical Research Institute. Mr. Kuntz is a member of the board of directors of Tengion, Inc.Geoffrey S. Martha, age 43, has been Senior Vice President of Strategy and Business Development since August 2011. Prior to joining Medtronic, he served as Managing Director of Business Development at GE Healthcare from April 2007 to July 2011; General Manager for GE Capital Technology Finance Services from November 2003 to March 2007, Senior Vice President, Business Development for GE Capital Vendor Financial Services from February 2002 to October 2003; General Manager for GE Capital Colonial Pacific Leasing from February 2001 to January 2002; and Vice President, Business Development for Potomac Federal, the GE Capital federal financing investment bank from May 1998 to January 2001.Christopher J. O’Connell, age 46, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Restorative Therapies Group since August 2009. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President, Diabetes from October 2006 to August 2009, President of Medtronic’s Emergency Response Systems division from May 2005 to October 2006, and Vice President of Sales and Marketing of Medtronic’s Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management division from November 2001 to May 2005. Mr. O’Connell has served in various management positions since joining the Company in 1994.Catherine Szyman, age 46, has been Senior Vice President and Group President of Medtronic Diabetes since November 2012.  Prior to that, she was Senior Vice President and President, Diabetes from August 2009 to November 2012; Senior Vice President, 16Table of ContentsStrategy and Innovation from April 2008 to August 2009; and Vice President and General Manager of Endovascular Innovations, part of the CardioVascular business unit, from October 2004 to April 2008. From 1991 to 2004, she held numerous management and leadership roles at Medtronic, including Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Vice President of Finance for the Vascular business.Item 1A. Risk FactorsInvesting in Medtronic involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below.The medical device industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively.We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 140 countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, or technologies may make our products or proposed products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. Competitive factors include:•product reliability,•product performance,•product technology,•product quality,•breadth of product lines,•product services,•customer support,•price, and•reimbursement approval from health care insurance providers.Major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products; reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. In the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry.Reduction or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales.We manufacture most of our products at 43 manufacturing facilities located throughout the world. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. Generally we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. However, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. However, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the U.S. FDA regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and to make our related product sales. Moreover, pursuant to the conflict minerals requirements promulgated by the SEC as a part of Dodd-Frank, we are required to report on the source of any conflict minerals used in our products, as well as the process we use to determine the source of such materials. We will incur expenses as we work with our suppliers to evaluate the source of any conflict minerals in our products, and compliance with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of our raw materials.Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater regulation in the future.Our medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation, including by the U.S. FDA, DOJ, and numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing their 17Table of Contentsscrutiny of our industry. For example, we have received inquiries from members of Congress and other government agencies regarding a variety of matters. In addition, certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of our interactions with health care providers. As a result, we are required by law to disclose payments and other transfers of value to health care providers licensed by certain states and, starting with payments or other transfers of value made on or after August 1, 2013, to all U.S. physicians and U.S. teaching hospitals at the federal level. Any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business. In addition, we may continue to devote substantial additional time and financial resources to further develop and implement policies, systems, and processes to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements, which may also impact our business. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation may increase compliance and legal costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations.We are subject to many laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.Our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. FDA and comparable agencies outside the U.S. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our medical devices. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products. If such approval is obtained, it may:•take a significant amount of time,•require the expenditure of substantial resources,•involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance,•involve modifications, repairs, or replacements of our products, and•result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products.Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under U.S. FDA regulations. We are also subject to periodic inspections by the U.S. FDA to determine compliance with the U.S. FDA’s requirements, including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting regulations. The results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on U.S. FDA’s Form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. Since 2009, the U.S. FDA has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. The U.S. FDA has recently also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the DOJ. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products.In addition, device manufacturers are permitted to promote products solely for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. A number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for “off-label” uses, including actions alleging that federal health care program reimbursement of products promoted for “off-label” uses are false and fraudulent claims to the government. The failure to comply with “off-label” promotion restrictions can result in significant administrative obligations and costs, and potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the SEC promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals": tantalum, tin, and tungsten (or their ores) and gold; which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. Under the rules, we will also be required to disclose the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. These new requirements will require due diligence efforts for the 2013 calendar year, with initial disclosure requirements effective in May 2014. There will be associated costs complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from our suppliers or that we will be able to determine that all of our products are conflict free. As a result, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement.18Table of ContentsForeign governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for a company’s non-compliance with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. Any domestic or foreign governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. Our worldwide operations are also required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and with U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with them, we could suffer civil and/or criminal sanctions.We are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and outside the U.S. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We cannot guarantee that compliance with environmental protection laws and regulations will not have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.Our failure to comply with rules relating to reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation and business operations.Our devices and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by HHS, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) as well as comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services. U.S. federal government health care laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a U.S. federal health care program beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim for an item or service that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal government-funded health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated include those that prohibit the filing of false or improper claims for federal payment, known as the false claims laws; those that prohibit unlawful inducements for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, known as the anti-kickback laws; and that which prohibits health care service providers seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark law.The laws applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by CMS. If we are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation it could adversely affect our reputation and business operations.Quality problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales, and market share.Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share.We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others.We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation against us can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. At any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, we believe the results associated with any such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which would generally have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets, or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, pending patent applications owned by us may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad 19Table of Contentsto protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge.In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and our earnings and impair our reputation.Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. Component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. We have elected to self-insure with respect to product liability risks. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products.Health care policy changes, including U.S. health care reform legislation signed in 2010, may have a material adverse effect on us.In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators, and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. health care system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010. Certain provisions of the law will not be effective for a number of years and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impacts will be from the law. The legislation imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on all U.S. medical device sales commencing in January 2013. Under the legislation, the total cost to the medical device industry is expected to be approximately $20 billion over 10 years. We expect the new tax will materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. We currently estimate that our annual excise tax fee will be within the range of $100 to $150 million pre-tax. The law also focuses on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. It is uncertain at this point what negative unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. The Medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of  comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). Additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for Medicare payments to hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in Medicare spending beginning in 2014. We cannot predict what health care programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our self-insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses.We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. We made this decision based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage limitations, and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We maintain a directors and officers policy providing limited coverage and continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. While based on historical loss trends we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, we cannot guarantee that this will remain true. Historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. The fact that we don't maintain third-party insurance coverage for all categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.20Table of ContentsIf we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will suffer.We may experience decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates, and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected.Continuing worldwide economic instability, including challenges faced by the Eurozone countries, could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations.Since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of an ongoing global financial crisis. This global financial crisis, including the European sovereign debt crisis, has caused extreme disruption in the financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy. Our customers and vendors may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. As with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. In addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries (including, but not limited to, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain). Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. In light of the current economic state of many countries outside the U.S., we continue to monitor their creditworthiness. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political challenges facing individual Eurozone countries. Continuing deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU, or the failure of the Euro as a common European currency could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to a variety of market and financial risks due to our international operations that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability and operating results.Our operations in countries outside the U.S., which accounted for 45 percent of our net sales for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2013, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales outside the U.S., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. Our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:•local product preferences and product requirements,•longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.,•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,•less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the U.S. than exists in the U.S.,•trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements,•work force instability,•political and economic instability, and•the potential payment of U.S. income taxes on certain earnings of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. upon repatriation.In particular, the Obama Administration has announced potential legislative proposals to tax profits of U.S. companies earned abroad. While it is impossible for us to predict whether these and other proposals will be implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may materially impact our results of operations if, for example, our profits earned abroad are subject to U.S. income tax, or we are otherwise disallowed deductions as a result of these profits.Finally, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our foreign currency revenues, net of expenses, and cash flows. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes.21Table of ContentsOur international operations expose us to legal and regulatory risks, which could have a material effect on our business.In addition to market and financial risks, our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to risks relating to changes in foreign medical reimbursement programs and policies and changes in foreign legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, our international operations are governed by various U.S. laws and regulations, including FCPA and other similar laws that prohibit us and our business partners from making improper payments or offers of payment to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by U.S. and foreign governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. Our international operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could negatively affect our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire.Consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.Many health care industry companies, including health care systems, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the health care industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows would suffer.Our business is indirectly subject to health care industry cost-containment measures that could result in reduced sales of medical devices containing our components.Most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies, and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. If third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and internationally, could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals. While this type of discount pricing does not currently exist for medical devices, if managed care or other organizations were able to affect discount pricing for devices, it could result in lower prices to our customers from their customers and, in turn, reduce the amounts we can charge our customers for our medical devices.Our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful.Our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas.We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development of, or acquire, new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.22Table of ContentsThe continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with physicians.If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing, and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.Negative conditions in the global credit market may impair our commercial paper program, our auction rate securities, and our other fixed income securities, which may cause us losses and liquidity issues.We have investments in marketable debt securities that are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. Our debt securities include U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, including auction rate securities. Market conditions over the past several years have included periods of significant economic uncertainty and at times general market distress, especially in the banking and financial services sector. During these periods of economic uncertainty, we may experience reduced liquidity across the fixed-income investment market, including the securities that we invest in. In the event we need to sell these securities, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner or for a value that is equal to the underlying principal. In addition, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge. If we determine that the fair value of such securities is temporarily impaired, we would record a temporary impairment as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders’ equity. If it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, we would record a loss in our consolidated statements of earnings, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.Negative market conditions may also impair our ability to access the capital markets through the issuance of commercial paper or debt securities, or may impact our ability to sell such securities at a reasonable price and may negatively impact our ability to borrow from financial institutions.Our products are continually the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors, or by third parties, or the market’s or U.S. FDA’s perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business.As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several acquisitions in recent years and may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of the combined company successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include:•the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies,•adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies, including potential liability imposed by FCPA,•any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases,•our ability to retain key employees, and•the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products.23Table of ContentsThe medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices. These investigations could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, divert the attention of our management, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. FDA and numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. We have received subpoenas and other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, including, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice and the Office of Inspector General of HHS. These investigations have related primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance, and product promotional practices. Similar requests were made of our major competitors.We are fully cooperating with these investigations and are responding to these requests. However, we cannot predict when these investigations will be resolved, the outcome of these investigations, or their impact on us. An adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements (CIAs) with governmental agencies and amendments to existing CIAs. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. Finally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens, including cost, on us. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by the government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various jurisdictions outside the U.S. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated earnings and financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, recent legislation imposed on medical device manufacturers a 2.3 percent excise tax on U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in January 2013. Proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could have a material impact on our future results of operations.We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data or if our products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially affected.We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for its products and infrastructure. As a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and changing customer patterns. In addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients with our products or the Company’s proprietary information. If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Item 1B