. Risk Factors” and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.11Table of ContentsMarkets and Distribution MethodsWe sell most of our medical devices through direct sales representatives in the U.S. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in markets outside the U.S. The three largest markets for our medical devices are the U.S., Western Europe, and Japan. Emerging markets are an area of increasing focus and opportunity as we believe they remain underpenetrated.Our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide - including physicians, hospitals, other medical institutions, and group purchasing organizations. To achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales teams around physician specialties. This focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary products. We believe that we maintain excellent working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry that enable us to gain a detailed understanding of therapeutic and diagnostic developments, trends, and emerging opportunities and respond quickly to the changing needs of physicians and patients. We attempt to enhance our presence in the medical community through active participation in medical meetings and by conducting comprehensive training and educational activities. We believe that these activities contribute to physician expertise.In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in health care delivery, the current trend among hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers is to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power. As a result, transactions with customers have become increasingly significant and more complex. This enhanced purchasing power may also lead to pressure on pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. Our customer base continues to evolve to reflect such economic changes across the geographic markets we serve. We are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net sales.Competition and IndustryWe compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 140 countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. The product lines in which we compete face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers offering a limited selection of products. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies.Major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products, reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. In addition, in the current environment of managed care, economically motivated customers, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, maintain high-quality manufacturing processes, and successfully market these products.Worldwide OperationsFor financial reporting purposes, net sales and property, plant, and equipment attributable to significant geographic areas are presented in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.12Table of ContentsImpact of Business Outside of the U.S.Our operations in countries outside the U.S. are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect revenues, net of expenses, and cash flows from operations outside the U.S. We use operational and economic hedges, as well as currency exchange rate derivative contracts, to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes on earnings and cash flow. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the repatriation of certain earnings of subsidiaries outside the U.S. may result in substantial U.S. tax cost.Production and Availability of Raw MaterialsWe manufacture most of our products at 41 manufacturing facilities located in various countries throughout the world. The largest of these manufacturing facilities are located in Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, Texas, Puerto Rico, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, The Netherlands, The People's Republic of China, Singapore, and Switzerland. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Due to the U.S. FDA’s requirements regarding manufacturing of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. Generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. However, a sudden or unexpected reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our operations. Moreover, as directed by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), the SEC has implemented reporting and disclosure requirements related to the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals": tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold; which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. Pursuant to these requirements, we are required to report on Form SD the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. As of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2013 calendar year, we were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of our suppliers and were unable to determine that all of our products are conflict free. We may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement.Working Capital PracticesOur goal is to carry sufficient levels of inventory to ensure adequate supply of raw materials from suppliers and meet the product delivery needs of our customers. We also provide payment terms to customers in the normal course of business and rights to return product under warranty to meet the operational demands of our customers.EmployeesOn April 25, 2014, we employed more than 49,000 employees (including full-time equivalent employees). Our employees are vital to our success. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits, and our rewarding work environment.SeasonalityWorldwide sales, including U.S. sales, do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, the number of medical procedures incorporating Medtronic products is generally lower during summer months, due to summer vacation schedules in the northern hemisphere, particularly in European countries.Government Regulation and Other ConsiderationsOur medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. FDA and similar agencies outside the U.S. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our medical devices. Our business is also affected by U.S. and foreign patient privacy laws, cost containment initiatives and environmental health and safety laws and regulations. The primary laws and regulations that affect our business are described below.13Table of ContentsThe laws applicable to us are subject to change, and subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Medtronic and its officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including substantial fines and damages, and exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare or Medicaid.Product Approval ProcessesAuthorization to commercially distribute a new medical device in the U.S. is generally received in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. In this process, we must submit data that supports our equivalence claim. If human clinical data is required, it must be gathered in compliance with U.S. FDA investigational device exemption regulations. We must receive an order from the U.S. FDA finding substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device before we can commercially distribute the new medical device. Modifications to cleared medical devices can be made without using the 510(k) process if the changes do not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. A very small number of our devices are exempt from pre-market review.The second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (PMA), requires us to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective. We do this by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal testing, and human clinical data for the medical device. The U.S. FDA will authorize commercial distribution if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is safe and effective. This determination is based on the benefit outweighing the risk for the population intended to be treated with the device. This process is much more detailed, time-consuming, and expensive than the 510(k) process. A third, seldom used, process for approval exists for humanitarian use devices, intended for patient populations of less than 4,000 patients per year in the U.S. This exemption is similar to the PMA process; however, a full showing of product effectiveness from large clinical trials is not required. The threshold for approving these products is probable benefit and safety.Many countries outside the U.S. to which we export medical devices also subject such medical devices to their own regulatory requirements. Frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a foreign country prior to application in the U.S. due to differing regulatory requirements; however, other countries, such as China for example, require approval in the country of origin first. Most countries outside of the U.S. require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. The recertification process requires that we evaluate any device changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device and, where needed, conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. Where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. Because export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations are complex and constantly changing, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations may not be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our ability to sell or distribute products.In the EU, a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity with the legal requirements is represented by the CE Mark. To obtain a CE Mark, defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety, and quality (i.e., the essential requirements), and then, according to their classification, comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. A notified body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the medical device directive. Medtronic is subject to inspection by notified bodies for compliance. The competent authorities of the EU countries, generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, oversee the clinical research for medical devices and are responsible for market surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. We are required to report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these authorities in a timely manner. Various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws transcribing the medical device directives.To be sold in Japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval, or “shonin.” The Japanese government, through the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare (MHLW), regulates medical devices under the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (PAL). Oversight for medical devices is conducted with participation by the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA), a quasi-government organization performing many of the review functions for MHLW. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance with PAL could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. MHLW and PMDA also assess the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the requirements of the PAL. Medtronic is subject to inspection for compliance by these agencies.Our global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly stringent, and unpredictable, which could increase the time, cost and complexity of obtaining regulatory approvals for our products. Several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, on existing regulations. Certain regulators are requiring local clinical data in addition to global clinical data. While harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. We expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact our ability to obtain future approvals for our products, or could increase 14Table of Contentsthe cost and time to obtain such approvals in the future. We cannot assure you that any new medical devices we develop will be approved in a timely or cost-effective manner or approved at all.Ongoing U.S. FDA RegulationsBoth before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under U.S. FDA regulations. The U.S. FDA reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. We are also subject to periodic inspection by the U.S. FDA for compliance with the U.S. FDA’s quality system regulations, which govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. In addition, the U.S. FDA and other U.S. regulatory bodies (including the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice (DOJ), and various state Attorneys General) monitor the manner in which we promote and advertise our products. Although surgeons are permitted to use their medical judgment to employ medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the U.S. FDA, we are prohibited from promoting products for such “off-label” uses, and can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, or ban such medical devices. The U.S. FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, including a hold on approving new devices until issues are resolved to its satisfaction, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the DOJ. Conduct giving rise to civil or criminal penalties may also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payers or other persons allegedly harmed by our conduct.Governmental Trade RegulationsThe sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive governmental trade regulations. A variety of laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and in the countries in which we transact business, apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across international borders. Because we are subject to extensive regulations in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, our import and export activities.The U.S. FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. Medtronic is also subject to foreign trade controls administered by several U.S. government agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department. We import raw materials, components and finished products into the countries in which we transact business. We act as the import of record in many instances, but we also sell and ship goods to third parties who are themselves responsible for complying with applicable trade laws and regulations. In our role as importer of record, we are directly responsible for complying with customs laws and regulations concerning the importation of our raw materials, components and finished products. If third parties violate U.S. FDA or customs laws and regulations when engaging in cross-border transactions involving our products, we may be subject to varying degrees of liability depending on our participation in the transaction. In addition, the activities of third parties may cause supply chain disruptions and delays in the distribution of our products that impact our business activities.Many countries, including the U.S., control the export and re-export of goods, technology and services for reasons including public health, national security, regional stability, antiterrorism policies and other reasons. In certain circumstances, approval from governmental authorities may be required before goods, technology or services are exported or re-exported to certain destinations, to certain end-users and for certain end-uses. In addition, international sales of our medical devices that have not received U.S. FDA approval are subject to U.S. FDA export requirements. Some governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons or entities. In addition to our need to comply with such regulations in connection with our direct export activities, we also sell and provide goods, technology and services to agents, representatives and distributors who may export such items to customers and end-users. If third parties violate applicable export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations when engaging in transactions involving our products, we may be subject to varying degrees of liability dependent upon our participation in the transaction. The activities of our third parties may cause disruption or delays in the distribution and sales of our products, or result in restrictions being placed upon our international distribution and sales of products which may materially impact our business activities.15Table of ContentsAnti-Boycott LawsUnder U.S. laws and regulations, U.S. companies and their controlled-in-fact foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are prohibited from participating or agreeing to participate in unsanctioned foreign boycotts in connection with certain business activities, including the sale purchase, transfer, shipping or financing of goods or services within the U.S. or between the U.S. and a foreign country. Currently, the U.S. considers the Arab League boycott of Israel to constitute an unsanctioned foreign boycott.  We are responsible for ensuring we comply with the requirements of U.S. anti-boycott laws for all transactions in which we are involved. If we or third parties violate U.S. anti-boycott laws and regulations when engaging in transactions involving our products, we may be subject to varying degrees of liability dependent upon the nature of the transaction and our participation in the transaction. Penalties for any violations of anti-boycott laws and regulations could include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, loss of export privileges and the denial of certain tax benefits, including foreign tax credits, and foreign subsidiary deferrals.Patient Privacy LawsU.S. federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by health care providers. In particular, in April 2003, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) published patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and, in April 2005, published security rules for protected health information. The HIPAA privacy and security rules govern the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by “Covered Entities,” which are health care providers that submit electronic claims, health plans, and health care clearinghouses. In 2009, Congress passed the HITECH Act, which modified certain provisions of the HIPAA privacy and security rules for Covered Entities and their Business Associates (which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a Covered Entity involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a member of the Covered Entity’s workforce). These included directing HHS to publish more specific security standards, and increasing breach notification requirements, as well as tightening certain aspects of the privacy rules. HHS published the final versions of these new rules in January 2013, and Covered Entities and Business Associates were expected to be in compliance by September 2013. In addition, the HITECH Act provided that Business Associates will now be subject to the same security requirements as Covered Entities, and that with regard to both the security and privacy rule, Business Associates will be subject to direct enforcement by HHS, including civil and criminal liability, just as Covered Entities are. In the past, HIPAA has generally affected us indirectly. Medtronic is generally not a Covered Entity, except for a few units such as our Diabetes business and our health insurance plans. Medtronic only operates as a Business Associate to Covered Entities in a limited number of instances. In those cases, the patient data that we receive and analyze may include protected health information. We are committed to maintaining the security and privacy of patients’ health information and believe that we meet the expectations of the HIPAA rules. Some modifications to our systems and policies may be necessary, but the framework is already in place. However, the potential for enforcement action against us is now greater, as HHS can take action directly against Business Associates. Thus, while we believe we are and will be in substantial compliance with HIPAA standards, there is no guarantee that the government will not disagree. Enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. Nonetheless, these requirements affect a limited subset of our business. We believe the ongoing costs and impacts of assuring compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security rules are not material to our business. In addition, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions brought relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies.  While Medtronic has not been named in any such suits, if a substantial breach or loss of data from our records were to occur, we could become a target of such litigation.In 2013, Medtronic provided notification regarding certain records related to patients of our Diabetes business unit.  While we found no evidence of a breach or inadvertent disclosure of the patient records, we were unable to locate them for retrieval.  The HHS Office of Civil Rights contacted us following the disclosure, as is their regular practice, and we have provided them information on the issue and our information security practices.  In addition, Medtronic, along with two other large medical device manufacturers, discovered an unauthorized intrusion to our systems that was believed to originate from hackers in Asia.  We concluded that the intrusion did not breach any of the databases where we store patient data.  We received inquiries from some State Attorneys General regarding whether notification to patients was necessary, and provided them information about our analysis and conclusions that patient data was not affected.We are also impacted by the privacy requirements of countries outside the U.S. Privacy standards in Europe and Asia are becoming increasingly strict. Enforcement action and financial penalties related to privacy in the EU are growing, and new laws and restrictions are being passed. The management of cross border transfers of information among and outside of EU member countries is becoming more complex, which may complicate our clinical research activities, as well as product offerings that involve transmission or use of clinical data. We will continue our efforts to comply with those requirements and to adapt our business processes to the standards.16Table of ContentsCost Containment InitiativesGovernment and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation, competitive pricing, bidding and tender mechanics, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices and therapies. Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for particular procedures or treatments, tying reimbursement to outcomes, shifting to population health management, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain costs. Hospitals, which purchase implants, are also seeking to reduce costs through a variety of mechanisms, including, for example, creating centralized purchasing functions that set pricing and in some cases limiting the number of vendors that can participate in the purchasing program. Hospitals are also aligning interests with physicians through employment and other arrangements, such as gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from the physicians’ collective change in practice patterns such as standardization of devices where medically appropriate. This has created an increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. Some third-party payers must also approve coverage and set reimbursement levels for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse health care providers who use the medical devices or therapies. Even though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until coverage and sufficient reimbursement levels have been obtained from governmental and private third-party payers. In addition, some private third-party payers require that certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance as a condition of reimbursement. International examples of cost containment initiatives and health care reforms in markets significant to Medtronic's business include Japan, where the government reviews reimbursement rate benchmarks every two years, which may significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for those procedures. As a result of our manufacturing efficiencies, cost controls and other cost-savings initiatives, we believe we are well-positioned to respond to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost-containment; however, uncertainty remains as to the nature of any future legislation or other reforms, making it difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating results.Regulations Governing ReimbursementThe delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by HHS and comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. U.S. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as the government’s interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services.U.S. federal health care laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services that are reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally-funded health care programs. The principal U.S. federal laws include: (1) the Anti-kickback Statute which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of including or rewarding referrals of items or services reimbursable by a federal health care program; (2) the False Claims Act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally-funded health care program, including claims resulting from a violation of the Anti-kickback Statute; (3) the Stark law which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician’s immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider; and (4) health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payer. There are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback, and anti-self-referral and insurance laws that apply to state-funded Medicaid and other health care programs and private third-party payers. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S. for arrangements with physicians, or other parties outside the U.S. if the physician or party is a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law of that country.Environmental Health and Safety LawsWe are also subject to various environmental health and safety laws and regulations both within and outside the U.S. Like other medical device companies, our manufacturing and other operations involve the use and transportation of substances regulated under environmental health and safety laws including those related to the transportation of hazardous materials. To the best of our knowledge at this time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.Litigation RisksPatent Litigation. We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty 17Table of Contentspayments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time, we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incidents to our business, we believe the costs associated with this type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. For additional information, see “. Risk Factors” and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Self-InsuranceWe have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. We made this decision based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage limitations, and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We maintain a directors and officers insurance policy providing limited coverage and we continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. Based on historical loss trends, we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses. Historical trends, however, may not be indicative of future losses. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.Executive Officers of MedtronicSet forth below are the names and ages of current Section 16(b) executive officers of Medtronic, Inc., as well as information regarding their positions with Medtronic, their periods of service in these capacities, and their business experiences. There are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.Omar Ishrak, age 58, has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic since June 2011. Prior to joining Medtronic, Mr. Ishrak served as President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Systems, a division of GE Healthcare, from 2009 to 2011. Before that, Mr. Ishrak was President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Clinical Systems from 2005 to 2008 and President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Healthcare Ultrasound and BMD from 1995 to 2004.Michael J. Coyle, age 51, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Cardiac and Vascular Group since December 2009. Prior to that, he served as President of the Cardiac Rhythm Management division at St. Jude from 2001 to 2007, and prior positions included serving St. Jude as President of the company’s Daig Catheter division and numerous leadership positions at Eli Lilly & Company. Gary L. Ellis, age 57, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2014. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2005 to April 2014; Vice President, Corporate Controller and Treasurer from October 1999 to May 2005 and Vice President and Corporate Controller from August 1994 to October 1999. Mr. Ellis joined Medtronic in 1989 as Assistant Corporate Controller and was promoted to Vice President of Finance for Medtronic Europe in 1992, until being named as Corporate Controller in 1994. Mr. Ellis is a member of the board of directors of The Toro Company and past chairman of the American Heart Association.Richard Kuntz, M.D., age 57, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific, Clinical and Regulatory Officer since August 2009. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President, Neuromodulation from October 2005 to August 2009; and prior to that, he was an interventional cardiologist and Chief of the Division of Clinical Biometrics at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Associate Professor of Medicine and Chief Scientific Officer of the Harvard Clinical Research Institute. Mr. Kuntz is a member of the board of directors of Tengion, Inc.Hooman C. Hakami, age 44, joined Medtronic in June 2014 as Executive Vice President and President, Diabetes.  Prior to joining Medtronic, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Detection and Guidance Solutions at GE Healthcare from April 2012 to May 2014. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Interventional Systems from July 2009 to April 2012; Global Business Transformation leader for GE Healthcare from December 2008 to July 2009; Vice President and General Manager, Global Ultrasound Services from June 2004 to December 2008. Mr. Hakami started his career with GE and has held the following financial roles: Chief Financial Officer for the Global Ultrasound division from 2001 to 2004; Chief Financial Officer 18Table of Contentsfor Clinical and Multi-vendor Services from 1999 to 2001; as well as various finance roles at GE Capital from 1994 to 1999; GE's Aerospace Division from 1992 to 1994 and GE Power Systems from 1991 to 1992.Bradley E.  Lerman, age 57, joined Medtronic, Inc. in May 2014 as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.  Prior to joining Medtronic, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary at Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) from October 2012 to May 2014; Senior Vice President and Chief Litigation Counsel at Pfizer, Inc. from January 2009 to September 2012; Partner at Winston & Strawn from August 1998 to January 2009; partner at Kirkland & Ellis from March 1996 to July 1998; Associate Independent Counsel from October 1994 to March 1996; and Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Northern District of Illinois from February 1986 to September 1994.Geoffrey S. Martha, age 44, has been Senior Vice President of Strategy and Business Development since August 2011. Prior to joining Medtronic, he served as Managing Director of Business Development at GE Healthcare from April 2007 to July 2011; General Manager for GE Capital Technology Finance Services from November 2003 to March 2007; Senior Vice President, Business Development for GE Capital Vendor Financial Services from February 2002 to October 2003; General Manager for GE Capital Colonial Pacific Leasing from February 2001 to January 2002; and Vice President, Business Development for Potomac Federal, the GE Capital federal financing investment bank from May 1998 to January 2001.Christopher J. O’Connell, age 47, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Restorative Therapies Group since August 2009. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President, Diabetes from October 2006 to August 2009; President of Medtronic’s Emergency Response Systems division from May 2005 to October 2006; and Vice President of Sales and Marketing of Medtronic’s Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management division from November 2001 to May 2005. Mr. O’Connell has served in various management positions since joining the Company in 1994.Carol A. Surface, age 48, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Medtronic since September 2013. Prior to that, she was the Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Best Buy Co., Inc. from March 2010 to September 2013, and held a series of HR leadership roles at PepsiCo Inc., from May 2000 to March 2010.Robert ten Hoedt, age 53, has been Executive Vice President and President, EMEAC since May 2014. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President, EMEA and Canada from 2009 to 2014; Vice President CardioVascular Europe and Central Asia from 2006 to 2009; Vice President and General Manager, Vitatron from 1999 to 2006; Gastro-Uro leader from 1994 to 1999; and Marketing Manager, Neurological from 1991 to 1994.Item 1A. Risk FactorsInvesting in Medtronic involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below.The medical device industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively.We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 140 countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, or technologies may make our products or proposed products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. Competitive factors include:•product reliability,•product performance,•product technology,•product quality,•breadth of product lines,•product services,•customer support,•price, and•reimbursement approval from health care insurance providers.Major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products; reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. In the current environment of managed care, consolidation among health care providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to 19Table of Contentscompete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry.Reduction or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales.We manufacture most of our products at 41 manufacturing facilities located throughout the world. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. Generally we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. However, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. However, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the U.S. FDA regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and to make our related product sales. Moreover, pursuant to the conflict minerals requirements promulgated by the SEC as a part of Dodd-Frank, we are required to report on the source of any conflict minerals used in our products, as well as the process we use to determine the source of such materials. We will incur expenses as we work with our suppliers to evaluate the source of any conflict minerals in our products, and compliance with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of our raw materials.Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater regulation in the future.Our medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation, including by the U.S. FDA, DOJ, and numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. For example, we have received inquiries from members of Congress and other government agencies regarding a variety of matters. In addition, certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of our interactions with health care providers. As a result, we are required by law to disclose payments and other transfers of value to health care providers licensed by certain states and, starting with payments or other transfers of value made on or after August 1, 2013, to all U.S. physicians and U.S. teaching hospitals at the federal level. Any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business. In addition, we may continue to devote substantial additional time and financial resources to further develop and implement policies, systems, and processes to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements, which may also impact our business. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation may increase compliance and legal costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations.We are subject to many laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.Our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. FDA and comparable agencies outside the U.S. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our medical devices. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products. If such approval is obtained, it may:•take a significant amount of time,•require the expenditure of substantial resources,•involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance,•involve modifications, repairs, or replacements of our products, and•result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products.Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under U.S. FDA regulations. We are also subject to periodic inspections by the U.S. FDA to determine compliance with the U.S. FDA’s requirements, including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting regulations. The results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on U.S. FDA’s Form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. Since 2009, the U.S. FDA has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. The U.S. FDA has recently also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could ban such 20Table of Contentsmedical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the DOJ. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products.In addition, device manufacturers are permitted to promote products solely for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. A number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for “off-label” uses, including actions alleging that federal health care program reimbursement of products promoted for “off-label” uses are false and fraudulent claims to the government. The failure to comply with “off-label” promotion restrictions can result in significant administrative obligations and costs, and potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, the SEC promulgated final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as "conflict minerals": tantalum, tin, tungsten (or their ores), and gold; which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. Under the rules, we are now required to disclose the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence in regards to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the cost of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. As of the date of our conflict minerals report for the 2013 calendar year, we were unable to obtain the necessary information on conflict minerals from all of our suppliers and were unable to determine that all of our products are conflict free. We may continue to face difficulties in gathering this information in the future. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement.Foreign governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for a company’s non-compliance with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. Any domestic or foreign governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. Our worldwide operations are also required to comply with the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and with U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with them, we could suffer civil and/or criminal sanctions.We are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and outside the U.S. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We cannot guarantee that compliance with environmental protection laws and regulations will not have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.Our failure to comply with rules relating to reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation and business operations.Our devices and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by HHS, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) as well as comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services. U.S. federal government health care laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a U.S. federal health care program beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim for an item or service that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal government-funded health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated include those that prohibit the filing of false or improper claims for federal payment, known as the false claims laws; those that prohibit unlawful inducements for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, known as the anti-kickback laws; and that which prohibits health care service providers seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark law.The laws applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by CMS. If we are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation it could adversely affect our reputation and business operations.21Table of ContentsQuality problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales, and market share.Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share.We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and other proprietary rights against others.We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation against us can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. At any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, we believe the results associated with any such litigation could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others, which would generally have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets, or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, pending patent applications owned by us may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge.In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and our earnings and impair our reputation.Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. Component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. We have elected to self-insure with respect to product liability risks. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products.Health care policy changes, including U.S. health care reform legislation signed in 2010, may have a material adverse effect on us.In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state governments, regulators, and third-party payers to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. health care system. Certain of these proposals could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.22Table of ContentsIn March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010. Certain provisions of the law will not be effective for a number of years and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impacts will be from the law. The legislation imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers in the form of a 2.3 percent excise tax on all U.S. medical device sales that commenced in January 2013. Under the legislation, the total cost to the medical device industry is expected to be approximately $20 billion over 10 years. We expect the new tax will materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. The law also focuses on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. It is uncertain at this point what negative unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. The Medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of  comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). Additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for Medicare payments to hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in Medicare spending. We cannot predict what health care programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our self-insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses.We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. We made this decision based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage limitations, and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We maintain a directors and officers policy providing limited coverage and continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. While based on historical loss trends we believe that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, we cannot guarantee that this will remain true. Historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. The fact that we do not maintain third-party insurance coverage for all categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.If we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will suffer.We may experience decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates, and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected.Continuing worldwide economic instability, including challenges faced by the Eurozone countries, could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations.Since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of an ongoing global financial crisis. This global financial crisis, including the European sovereign debt crisis, has caused extreme disruption in the financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy. Our customers and vendors may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. As with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. In addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national health care systems in many countries (including, but not limited to, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain). Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries. In light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers located outside the U.S. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political challenges facing individual Eurozone countries. Continuing deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU, or the failure of the Euro as a common European currency could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to a variety of market and financial risks due to our international operations that could adversely affect those operations or our profitability and operating results.Our operations in countries outside the U.S., which accounted for 46 percent of our net sales for the fiscal year ended April 25, 2014, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales outside 23Table of Contentsthe U.S., especially in emerging markets, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international sales and operations. Our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:•local product preferences and product requirements,•longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.,•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,•less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the U.S. than exists in the U.S.,•trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements,•workforce instability,•political and economic instability, and•the potential payment of U.S. income taxes on certain earnings of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. upon repatriation.In particular, the Obama Administration has announced potential legislative proposals to tax profits of U.S. companies earned abroad. While it is impossible for us to predict whether these and other proposals will be implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may materially impact our results of operations if, for example, our profits earned abroad are subject to U.S. income tax, or we are otherwise disallowed deductions as a result of these profits.Finally, changes in foreign currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our foreign currency revenues, net of expenses, and cash flows. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes.Our international operations expose us to legal and regulatory risks, which could have a material effect on our business.In addition to market and financial risks, our profitability and international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to risks relating to changes in foreign medical reimbursement programs and policies and changes in foreign legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, our international operations are governed by various U.S. laws and regulations, including FCPA and other similar laws that prohibit us and our business partners from making improper payments or offers of payment to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by U.S. and foreign governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. Our international operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could negatively affect our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire.Consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.Many health care industry companies, including health care systems, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the health care industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows would suffer.Our business is indirectly subject to health care industry cost-containment measures that could result in reduced sales of medical devices containing our components.Most of our customers, and the health care providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies, and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. If third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost-containment measures that health care providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and internationally, could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example, managed care organizations have successfully 24Table of Contentsnegotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals. While this type of discount pricing does not currently exist for medical devices, if managed care or other organizations were able to affect discount pricing for devices, it could result in lower prices to our customers from their customers and, in turn, reduce the amounts we can charge our customers for our medical devices.Our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful.Our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas.We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development of, or acquire, new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.The continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with health care professionals.If we fail to maintain our working relationships with health care professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing, and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with health care professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing, and sale of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.Negative conditions in the global credit market may impair our commercial paper program, our auction rate securities, and our other fixed income securities, which may cause us losses and liquidity issues.We have investments in marketable debt securities that are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. Our debt securities include U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, certificates of deposit, debt funds, and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, including auction rate securities. Market conditions over the past several years have included periods of significant economic uncertainty and at times general market distress, especially in the banking and financial services sector. During these periods of economic uncertainty, we may experience reduced liquidity across the fixed-income investment market, including the securities in which we invest. In the event we need to sell these securities, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner or for a value that is equal to the underlying principal. In addition, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge. If we determine that the fair value of such securities is temporarily impaired, we would record a temporary impairment as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders’ equity. If it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, we would record a loss in our consolidated statements of earnings, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.Negative market conditions may also impair our ability to access the capital markets through the issuance of commercial paper or debt securities, or may impact our ability to sell such securities at a reasonable price and may negatively impact our ability to borrow from financial institutions.Our products are continually the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors, or by third parties, or the market’s or U.S. FDA’s perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations.25Table of ContentsFailure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business.As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several acquisitions in recent years and may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of the combined company successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include:•the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies,•adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies, including potential liability imposed by FCPA,•any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases,•our ability to retain key employees, and•the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products.For additional information regarding risks relating to the Pending Acquisition of Covidien plc, see risk factors below under the heading “Risks relating to our pending acquisition of Covidien plc”.The medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices. These investigations could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, divert the attention of our management, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to rigorous regulation by the U.S. FDA and numerous other federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. We have received subpoenas and other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, including, among others, the U.S. DOJ and the Office of Inspector General of HHS. These investigations have related primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance, and product promotional practices. Similar requests were made of our major competitors.We are fully cooperating with these investigations and are responding to these requests. However, we cannot predict when these investigations will be resolved, the outcome of these investigations, or their impact on us. An adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs, entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements (CIAs) with governmental agencies and amendments to existing CIAs. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. Finally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens, including cost, on us. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by the government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various jurisdictions outside the U.S. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated earnings and financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, recent legislation imposed on medical device manufacturers a 2.3 percent excise tax on U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in January 2013. Proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could have a material impact on our future results of operations.26Table of ContentsWe are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data or if our products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially affected.We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for its products and infrastructure. As a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and changing customer patterns. In addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients with our products or the Company’s proprietary information. If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Risks relating to our pending acquisition of Covidien plcMedtronic and Covidien must obtain required approvals and governmental and regulatory consents to consummate the Pending Acquisition, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions, may jeopardize or delay the consummation of the Pending Acquisition, result in additional expenditures of money and resources and/or reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction.The Pending Acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions. These closing conditions include, among others, the receipt of required approvals of Medtronic and Covidien shareholders, the effectiveness of the registration statement, the approval of the Arrangement by the Irish High Court and the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act, and the relevant approvals under the antitrust, competition, and foreign investment laws of certain foreign countries under which filings or approvals are or may be required. The governmental agencies from which the parties will seek certain of these approvals have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to their approval of the Pending Acquisition, agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of New Medtronic’s businesses after the closing. These requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could jeopardize or delay the consummation of the transaction or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Further, no assurance can be given that the required shareholder approvals will be obtained or that the required closing conditions will be satisfied, and, if all required consents and approvals are obtained and the closing conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions, and timing of the approvals. Pursuant to the transaction agreement, Medtronic would generally be required to commit to make, and make, any divestitures needed to obtain any antitrust or competition-related regulatory approvals so long as the divestitures would not result in a material adverse effect on the combined company, taken as a whole. If Medtronic and Covidien agree to any material requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to consummate the Pending Acquisition, these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions could adversely affect New Medtronic’s ability to integrate Medtronic’s operations with Covidien’s operations or reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. This could result in a failure to consummate the Pending Acquisition or have a material adverse effect on New Medtronic’s business and results of operations.Future potential changes to the tax laws under which New Medtronic is expected to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes may jeopardize or delay the consummation of the Pending Acquisition, and any such changes or changes in other tax laws relating to multinational corporations, whether enacted before or after consummation, may materially adversely affect New Medtronic.Under current law, New Medtronic is expected to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. Changes to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Section 7874”), or the U.S. Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder could affect New Medtronic’s status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.  Any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even if enacted after the Pending Acquisition is consummated.  If New Medtronic were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes, it could be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a foreign corporation.  In addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to limit the 27Table of Contentsability of foreign-owned corporations to deduct interest expense, and to make other changes in the taxation of multinational corporations. Any of these changes to such laws or regulations could materially adversely affect New Medtronic.Each of Medtronic’s and Covidien’s respective obligations to consummate the Pending Acquisition is subject to a condition that there shall have been no change in applicable law (whether or not such change in law is yet effective) with respect to Section 7874 (or any other U.S. tax law), or certain official interpretations thereof, and there having been no bill that would implement such a change which has been passed in identical (or substantially identical such that a conference committee is not required prior to submission of such legislation for the President’s approval or veto) form by both Houses of Congress and for which the time period for the President of the United States to sign or veto such bill has not yet elapsed, in each case, that, once effective, in the opinion of nationally recognized U.S. tax counsel, would cause New Medtronic to be treated as a United States domestic corporation for United States federal income tax purposes.Failure to consummate the Pending Acquisition could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results and could negatively impact our stock price.We will incur significant transaction costs relating to the Pending Acquisition, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, regulatory, and other expenses.  In general, these expenses are payable by us whether or not the merger is completed.  In addition, if the transaction agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay to Covidien a termination fee equal to $850 million.  The payment of any of these costs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  The current market price of our stock may reflect an assumption that the pending merger will occur and failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in our stock price.If completed, the Pending Acquisition may not achieve the intended benefits or may disrupt our current plans and operations.There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses of Medtronic and Covidien or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the Pending Acquisition.  The expected cost savings and synergies of the merger may not be fully realized, which could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on the combined company’s financial results and prospects.  Our business may be negatively impacted following the Pending Acquisition if we are unable to effectively manage our expanded operations.  The integration will require significant time and focus from management following the merger and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined business.  Additionally, consummation of the Pending Acquisition could disrupt current plans and operations, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives.Item 1B