Item 1A. Risk
Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 17 to the consolidated
financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto and included in our 2010
Annual Report for additional information.

Markets and Distribution Methods

          We
sell most of our medical devices through direct sales representatives in the
U.S. and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent
distributors in markets outside the U.S. The three largest markets for our
medical devices are the U.S., Western Europe and Japan. Markets outside the
U.S. are an area of increasing focus and opportunity as we believe they remain
underpenetrated.

          Our
marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of
high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide – including
physicians, hospitals, other medical institutions and group purchasing
organizations. To achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales
teams around physician specialties. This focus enables us to develop highly
knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives who are able to foster strong
relationships with physicians and other customers and enhance our ability to
cross-sell complementary products. We believe that we maintain excellent
working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry that
enable us to gain a detailed understanding of therapeutic and diagnostic
developments, trends and emerging opportunities and respond quickly to the
changing needs of physicians and patients. We attempt to enhance our presence
in the medical community through active participation in medical meetings and
by conducting comprehensive training and educational activities. We believe
that these activities contribute to physician expertise.

          In
keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare
delivery, the current trend among hospitals and other customers of medical
device manufacturers is to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance
purchasing power. As a result, transactions with customers have become
increasingly significant, more complex and tend to involve more long-term
contracts than in the past. This enhanced purchasing power may also lead to
pressure on pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. We are not
dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our total net
sales.

10


Table of Contents
Competition and Industry

          We
compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 120
countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change
resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the
product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging
from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers
that offer a limited selection of products. In addition, we face competition
from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical
companies.

          Major
shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product
problems, physician advisories and safety alerts, refiecting the importance of
product quality in the medical device industry. In the current environment of
managed care, economically motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare
providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we have
been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to
continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced
technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary products, obtain
regulatory approvals in a timely manner and manufacture and successfully market
these products.

Worldwide Operations

          For
financial reporting purposes, net sales and long-lived assets attributable to
significant geographic areas are presented in Note 19 to the consolidated
financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto and will be included in our
2010 Annual Report.



Impact of Business Outside of the U.S.

          Our
operations in countries outside the U.S. are accompanied by certain financial
and other risks. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary
by country, often with longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.
Inventory management is an important business concern due to the potential for
obsolescence, long lead times from sole source providers and currency exposure.
Currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect net sales from, and
profitability of, operations outside the U.S. We attempt to hedge these
exposures to reduce the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on net
earnings. See the “Market Risk” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10 to the
consolidated financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto and will be
included in our 2010 Annual Report. In addition, the repatriation of certain
earnings of our foreign subsidiaries’ may result in substantial U.S. tax cost.

Production and Availability of Raw Materials

          We
manufacture most of our products at 22 manufacturing facilities located in
various countries throughout the world. The largest of these manufacturing
facilities are located in Arizona, California, Florida, Indiana, Ireland,
Massachusetts, Mexico, Minnesota, Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Texas and
Washington. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in
manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For
reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness,
certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier.
We work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while
maintaining high quality and reliability. Due to the FDA’s requirements
regarding manufacturing of our products, we may not be able to quickly
establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or
materials. Generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw
materials and components. However, the reduction or interruption in supply, and
an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely
affect our operations.

11


Table of Contents
Employees

          On
April 30, 2010, we employed approximately 43,000 employees (including full-time
equivalent employees). Our employees are vital to our success. We believe we
have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly
competitive labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits, and
our rewarding work environment. We believe our employee relations are
excellent.

Seasonality

          Worldwide
sales, including U.S. sales, do not reflect any significant degree of
seasonality.

Government Regulation and Other
Considerations

          Our
medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies,
including the FDA and comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of
these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of
our medical devices.

          Authorization
to commercially distribute a new medical device in the U.S. is generally received
in one of two ways. The first, known as pre-market notification or the 510(k)
process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device is
substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. In this process,
we must submit data that supports our equivalence claim. If human clinical data
is required, it must be gathered in compliance with FDA investigational device
exemption regulations. We must receive an order from the FDA finding
substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device before we
can commercially distribute the new medical device. Modifications to cleared
medical devices can be made without using the 510(k) process if the changes do
not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. A very small number of our devices
are exempt from pre-market review.

          The
second, more rigorous process, known as pre-market approval (PMA), requires us
to independently demonstrate that the new medical device is safe and effective.
We do this by collecting data regarding design, materials, bench and animal
testing and human clinical data for the medical device. The FDA will authorize
commercial release if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the
medical device is safe and effective. This determination is based on the
benefit outweighing the risk for the population intended to be treated with the
device. This process is much more detailed, time-consuming and expensive than
the 510(k) process. A third, seldom used, process for approval exists for
products intended for orphan populations, which is less than 4,000 patients per
year in the U.S. This exemption is similar to the PMA process; however, a full
showing of product effectiveness from large clinical trials is not required.
The threshold for approving these products is probable benefit and safety.

          Both
before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing
responsibilities under FDA regulations. The FDA reviews design and
manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping and manufacturers’
required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify
potential problems with marketed medical devices. We are also subject to
periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s quality system
regulations among other FDA requirements, such as restrictions on advertising
and promotion. The quality system regulations govern the methods used in, and
the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging and
servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. If the FDA
were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or
regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an
unreasonable health risk, the FDA could require us to notify health
professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of
substantial harm to the public health, order a recall, repair, replacement or
refund of such devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical
devices or ban such medical devices. The FDA may also impose operating
restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of
applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal
penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also recommend
prosecution to the Department of Justice.

12



Table of Contents
          The
FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), administers
controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. The CBP imposes its
own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection
and possible sanctions for noncompliance. Medtronic is also subject to foreign
trade controls administered by several U.S. government agencies, including the
Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and the Office
of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department.

          The
FDA also administers certain controls over the export of medical devices from
the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA
approval are subject to FDA export requirements. Many foreign countries to
which we export medical devices also subject such medical devices to their own
regulatory requirements. Frequently, we obtain regulatory approval for medical
devices in foreign countries first because their regulatory approval is faster
than that of the FDA. However, as a general matter, foreign regulatory
requirements are becoming increasingly common and more stringent.

          In
the European Union, a single regulatory approval process exists, and conformity
with the legal requirements is represented by the CE Mark. To obtain a CE Mark,
defined products must meet minimum standards of performance, safety and quality
(i.e., the essential requirements) and then, according to their classification,
comply with one or more of a selection of conformity assessment routes. A
notified body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and
the product conformity to the essential and other requirements within the
medical device directive. Medtronic is subject to inspection by notified bodies
for compliance. The competent authorities of the European Union countries,
generally in the form of their ministries or departments of health, oversee the
clinical research for medical devices and are responsible for market
surveillance of products once they are placed on the market. We are required to
report device failures and injuries potentially related to product use to these
authorities in a timely manner. Various penalties exist for non-compliance with
the laws transcribing the medical device directives.

          To
be sold in Japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety
examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval,
or “shonin.” The Japanese government, through the Ministry of Health, Labour
and Welfare (MHLW), regulates medical devices under the Pharmaceutical Affairs
Law (PAL). Oversight for medical devices is conducted with participation by the
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA), a quasi government
organization performing many of the review functions for MHLW. Penalties for a
company’s noncompliance with PAL could be severe, including revocation or
suspension of a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. MHLW and
PMDA also assess the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the
product conformity to the requirements of the PAL. Medtronic is subject to
inspection for compliance by these agencies.

          The
process of obtaining approval to distribute medical products is costly and
time-consuming in virtually all of the major markets where we sell medical
devices. We cannot assure that any new medical devices we develop will be
approved in a timely or cost-effective manner or approved at all.

          Federal
and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health
information, including patient medical records, and restrict the use and
disclosure of patient health information by healthcare providers. In
particular, in April 2003, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) published patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA privacy rule) and, in April 2005,
published security rules for protected health information. The HIPAA privacy
and security rules govern the use, disclosure and security of protected health
information by “Covered Entities,” which are healthcare providers that submit
electronic claims, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. In 2009,
Congress passed the HITECH Act, which modified certain provisions of the HIPAA
privacy and security rules for Covered Entities and their Business Associates
(which is anyone that performs a service on behalf of a Covered Entity
involving the use or disclosure of protected health information and is not a
member of the covered entity’s workforce).These included directing HHS to
publish more specific security standards, and increasing breach notification
requirements, as well as tightening certain aspects of the privacy rules. In
addition, the HITECH Act provided that Business Associates will now be subject
to the same security requirements as Covered Entities, and that with regard to
both the security and privacy rule, Business Associates will be subject to
direct enforcement by HHS, including civil and criminal liability, just as
Covered Entities are. In the past, HIPAA has generally affected us indirectly.
Medtronic is generally not a Covered Entity, except for a few units such as our
Diabetes operating segment and our health insurance plans. Medtronic only
operates as a Business Associate to Covered Entities in a limited number of
instances.

In those
cases, the patient data that we receive and analyze may include protected
health information. We are committed to maintaining the security and privacy of
patients’ health information and believe that we meet the expectations of the
HIPAA rules. Some modifications to our systems and policies may be necessary,
but the framework is already in place. However, the potential for enforcement
action against us is now greater, as HHS can take action directly against
Business Associates. Thus, while we believe we are and will be in compliance
with all HIPAA standards, there is no guarantee that the government will not
disagree. Enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt regular operations of
our business. Nonetheless, these new requirements affect only a small portion
of our business. We believe the ongoing costs and impacts of assuring
compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security rules are not material to our
business.

13


Table of Contents
          Government
and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs,
including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies,
comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care
arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including
the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on
the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices. Government programs, including
Medicare and Medicaid, private healthcare insurance and managed-care plans have
attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will
pay for particular procedures or treatments, and other mechanisms designed to
constrain utilization and contain costs, including, for example, gainsharing,
where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings
resulting from the physicians’ collective change in practice patterns such as
standardization of devices where medically appropriate. This has created an
increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. Some
third-party payors must also approve coverage for new or innovative devices or
therapies before they will reimburse healthcare providers who use the medical
devices or therapies. Even though a new medical device may have been cleared
for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device until
reimbursement approval has been obtained from governmental and private
third-party payors. In addition, some private third-party payors require that
certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance
as a condition of reimbursement. As a result of our manufacturing efficiencies
and cost controls, we believe we are well-positioned to respond to changes
resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost-containment; however,
uncertainty remains as to the nature of any future legislation, making it
difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on
future operating results.

          The
delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by HHS and comparable state
and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of healthcare
items and services. U.S. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in
connection with the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as the government’s
interest in regulating the quality and cost of healthcare. Foreign governments
also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement programs
and the delivery of healthcare items and services.

          Federal
healthcare laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services
that are reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded
healthcare programs. The principal federal laws include: (1) the False Claims
Act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for
payment to a federally-funded health care program; (2) the Anti-Kickback
Statute which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for
the purpose of inducing or rewarding referrals of items or services
reimbursable by a Federal healthcare program; (3) the Stark law which prohibits
physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that
bills these programs for the provision of certain designated health services if
the physician (or a member of the physician’s immediate family) has a financial
relationship with that provider; and (4) healthcare fraud statutes that
prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payor. There
are often similar state false claims, anti-kickback and anti-self referral and
insurance laws that apply to state-funded Medicaid and other healthcare
programs and private third-party payors. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S. for arrangements
with physicians, or other parties outside the U.S. if the physician or party is
a government official of another country and the arrangement violates the law
of that country.

          The
laws applicable to us are subject to change, and to evolving interpretations.
If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations, Medtronic and its officers and employees could
be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including substantial
penalties, fines and damages and exclusion from participation as a supplier of
product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare or Medicaid.

14


Table of Contents
          We
operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent
litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could
prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant
royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time,
we are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent
infringement actions. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent
litigation incident to our business, we believe the costs associated with this
type of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
results of operations, financial position or cash flows. See Note 17 to the
consolidated financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto as well as our
2010 Annual Report for additional information.

          We
operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims.
These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf
or purporting to represent a class. In addition, product liability claims may
be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the
present time.

          We
are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and
outside the U.S. Like other medical device companies, our operations involve
the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily
manufacturing and sterilization processes. To the best of our knowledge at this
time, we do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have
a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position
or cash flows.

          We
have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks, including medical and
dental costs, physical loss to property, business interruptions, workers’
compensation, comprehensive general, director and officer and product
liability. Decisions to self-insure are based on comparisons between the price,
availability and value of insurance coverage. We continue to monitor the
insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to the Company of obtaining
insurance coverage in the future. Based on historical loss trends, we believe
that our self-insurance program accruals will be adequate to cover future
losses. Historical trends, however, may not be indicative of future losses.
These losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results
of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Executive Officers of Medtronic

          Set
forth below are the names and ages of current executive officers of Medtronic,
Inc., as well as information regarding their positions with Medtronic, their
periods of service in these capacities and their business experiences. There
are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any
arrangement or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an
officer.

          William
A. Hawkins, age 56, has been a Director of
Medtronic since March 2007 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since
August 2008. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic
from August 2007 to August 2008 and as President and Chief Operating Officer
from May 2004 to August 2007. He served as Senior Vice President and President,
Medtronic Vascular, from January 2002 to May 2004. He served as President and
Chief Executive Officer of Novoste Corporation from 1998 to 2002. He is also a
member of the board of visitors of the Engineering School of Duke University
and a member of the board of directors of the Guthrie Theatre and the
University of Minnesota Foundation.

          Jean-Luc
Butel, age 53, has been Executive Vice President
and Group President, International since August 2009. Prior to that, he was
Senior Vice President and President, International from May 2008 to August
2009, Senior Vice President and President, Asia Pacific from August 2003 to May
2008 and President of Independence Technology, a Johnson & Johnson company,
from 1999 to 2003. From 1991 to 1999, he worked for Becton, Dickinson and
Company, initially as General Manager of its Microbiology business in Japan and
then as President of Nippon Becton Dickinson. His last assignment at Becton,
Dickinson and Company was President, Worldwide Consumer Healthcare.

          Michael
J. Coyle, age 47, has been Executive Vice
President and Group President, Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management,
CardioVascular and Physio-Control, now called the Cardiac and Vascular Group,
since December 2009. Prior to that, he served as President of the Cardiac
Rhythm Management division at St. Jude Medical, Inc. (St. Jude) from 2001 to
2007, and prior positions included serving St. Jude as President of the
company’s Daig Catheter division and numerous leadership positions at Eli Lilly
& Company. Mr. Coyle serves on the board of directors of Volcano
Corporation.

15


Table of Contents
          H.
James Dallas, age 51, has been Senior Vice
President, Quality and Operations since April 2008. Prior to that he was Senior
Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Medtronic from April 2006 to
April 2008. He was Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Georgia
Pacific Corporation from December 2002 to December 2005; General Manager of the
Transportation Division and President of the Lumber Division of Georgia Pacific
Corporation from October 2001 to December 2002; and Vice President, Building
Products Distribution Sales and Logistics, Georgia Pacific Corporation from
October 2000 to October 2001.

          Gary
L. Ellis, age 53, has been Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior to that, he was Vice President,
Corporate Controller and Treasurer since October 1999 and Vice President
Corporate Controller from August 1994 to October 1999. Mr. Ellis joined
Medtronic in 1989 as Assistant Corporate Controller and was promoted to Vice
President of Finance for Medtronic Europe in 1992, until being named as
Corporate Controller in 1994. Mr. Ellis is a member of the board of directors
of The Toro Company and past chairman of the American Heart Association.

          D.
Cameron Findlay, age 50, has been Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since August 2009. Prior to
that, Mr. Findlay was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Aon
Corporation from August 2003 to August 2009. Prior to joining Aon, Mr. Findlay
served as the U.S. Deputy Secretary of Labor. Before joining the Labor
Department in June 2001, Mr. Findlay was a partner at the law firm now known as
Sidley Austin LLP.

          Richard
Kuntz, M.D., age 53, has been Senior Vice
President and Chief Scientific, Clinical and Regulatory Officer since August
2009. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President,
Neuromodulation from October 2005 to August 2009, and prior to that he was an
interventional cardiologist and Chief of the Division of Clinical Biometrics at
Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Associate Professor of Medicine and Chief
Scientific Officer of the Harvard Clinical Research Institute.

          James
P. Mackin, age 43, has been Senior Vice President
and President CRDM since August 2007. Prior to that, he was Vice President,
CRDM Commercial Operations from November 2006 to August 2007 and Vice
President, Vascular, Western Europe, from July 2004 to November 2006. He was
Vice President and General Manager of Medtronic Vascular’s Endovascular
business from October 2002 to July 2004. Prior to joining Medtronic, he served
in a number of sales and executive positions at Genzyme Corporation from 1996
to 2004.

          Christopher
J. O’Connell, age 43, has been Executive Vice
President and Group President, Spinal, Neuromodulation, Diabetes, and Surgical
Technologies, now called the Restorative Therapies Group, since August 2009.
Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and President, Diabetes from
October 2006 to August 2009, President of Medtronic’s Emergency Response
Systems division from May 2005 to October 2006, and Vice President of Sales and
Marketing of Medtronic’s Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management division from
November 2001 to May 2005. Mr. O’Connell has served in various management
positions since joining the Company in 1994.

          Caroline
Stockdale, age 46, has been Senior Vice President
of Human Resources since April 2010. Prior to that she served as Vice President
of Revenue Cycle Operations at Accretive Health from January 2009 to May 2010.
From 2005 to 2009, she served as Executive Vice President of Global Human
Resources at Warner Music Group; from 2002 to 2005, she was Senior Vice
President, Human Resources, at American Express Financial Advisors (Ameriprise)
and from 1997 to 2002, she was Executive Vice President and Global HR Leader at
GE Capital.

16



Table of Contents

Item 1A. Risk Factors

          Investing
in Medtronic involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown,
including, among others, those discussed below.

          The medical device industry is highly competitive and
we may be unable to compete effectively.

          We
compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 120
countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change
resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the
product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging
from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers
that offer a limited selection of products. Development by other companies of
new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our products or
proposed products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from
providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies.
Competitive factors include:


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 product reliability,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 product
 performance,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 product
 technology,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 product
 quality,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 breadth of
 product lines,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 product
 services,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 customer
 support,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 price, and
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 reimbursement
 approval from healthcare insurance providers.
 
 


          Major
shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product
problems, physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of
product quality in the medical device industry. In the current environment of
managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition
and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to
compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to compete effectively, we
must continue to create, invest in or acquire advanced technology, incorporate
this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a
timely manner and manufacture and successfully market our products. Given these
factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of
success in the industry.

          Reduction or interruption in supply and an inability
to develop alternative sources for supply may adversely affect our
manufacturing operations and related product sales.

          We
manufacture most of our products at 22 manufacturing facilities located
throughout the world. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used
in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries.
Generally we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials
and components. However, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness
or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials from a sole
supplier. While we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity
of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot guarantee
that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to the stringent
regulations and requirements of the FDA regarding the manufacture of our
products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement
sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in
supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could
adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost
effective manner and to make our related product sales.

          Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and
regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater governmental
regulation in the future.

          Our
medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation,
including by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental
authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing
their scrutiny of our industry. For example, we have received inquiries from
members of Congress and other government agencies regarding a variety of
matters. In addition, certain states have recently passed or are considering
legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and
requiring disclosure of certain payments to them. Also, while recent case law
has clarified that the FDA’s authority over medical devices preempts state tort
laws, legislation has been introduced at the federal level to allow state
intervention. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our
industry closely, and that additional regulation by governmental authorities
may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects
to our operations.

17

Table of Contents
          We are subject to many laws and governmental
regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect
our financial condition and business operations.

          Our
medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies,
including the FDA and comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of
these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of
our medical devices. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain
marketing clearance for our new products, or enhancements or modifications to
existing products, and if we do, such approval may: 


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 take a
 significant amount of time, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 require the
 expenditure of substantial resources, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 involve
 stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 involve
 modifications, repairs or replacements of our products and 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 result in
 limitations on the proposed uses of our products.
 
 


          Both
before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing
responsibilities under FDA regulations. We are also subject to periodic
inspections by the FDA to determine compliance with the FDA’s requirements,
including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting
regulations. The results of these inspections can include inspectional
observations on FDA’s Form-483, warning letters or other forms of enforcement.
Since 2009, the FDA has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject
to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping
up inspections of manufacturing facilities. The FDA has recently also significantly increased
the number of warning letters issued to companies. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws
or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an
unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or
seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair,
replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending premarket
approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for
exports and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the
devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health.
The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain
violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or
criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also
recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory
action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing
and selling our products. Currently, we are aware of three active outstanding
warning letters from the FDA: one issued in June 2009 to one of our facilities
in Puerto Rico; one issued in November 2009 to our CRDM Mounds View
facility; and another one issued in May 2010 to our Surgical Technologies facility in Louisville, Colorado.

          Foreign
governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common,
and we may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental
authorities in the future. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance with foreign
governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of
a company’s business license and criminal sanctions. Any domestic or foreign
governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material
adverse effect on us.

          We
are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and
outside the U.S. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under
environmental laws, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization
processes. We cannot guarantee that compliance with environmental protection
laws and regulations will not have a material impact on our consolidated
earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.

18

Table of Contents
          Our failure to comply with rules relating to
reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services may subject us to
penalties and adversely impact our reputation and business operations.

          Our
devices are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by the HHS,
including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) as well as
comparable state and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and
regulation of healthcare goods and services. Foreign governments also impose
regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement programs and the
delivery of healthcare goods and services. U.S. federal government healthcare
laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a U.S. federal healthcare
program beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim for an item or service
that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal government funded healthcare program,
such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated
include those that prohibit the filing of false or improper claims for federal
payment, known as false claims law, those that prohibit unlawful inducements
for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded healthcare
programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and those that prohibit healthcare
service providers seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a
patient who was referred by a physician that has certain types of direct or
indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark
law.

          The
laws applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a
governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be
subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example,
exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered
by CMS. If we are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation
it could adversely affect our reputation and business operations.

          Quality problems with our processes, goods and
services could harm our reputation for producing high quality products and
erode our competitive advantage.

          Quality
is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly
consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the
marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards
our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and
results of operations could decline. Aside from specific customer standards,
our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances
precision engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from
multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to
adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality
components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged and we
could lose customers and market share.

          We are substantially dependent on patent and other
proprietary rights and failing to be successful in patent litigation or other
litigation may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or
royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future
products or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights
against others.

          We
operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent
litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could
prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay
significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected
products. At any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and
a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which
may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to
predict the outcome of patent litigation incidents to our business, we believe
the results associated with any litigation could result in our payment of
significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our
ability to sell current or future products or prohibit us from enforcing our
patent and proprietary rights against others, which would generally have a
material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition
and/or cash flows.

          We
rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure and
non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property,
and we will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against any threats to
our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these patents, trade
secrets or other agreements will adequately protect our intellectual property.
There can also be no assurance that pending patent applications owned by us
will result in patents being issued to us, that patents issued to or licensed
by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by
competitors or that such patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently
broad to protect our technology or to provide us with any competitive
advantage. Third parties could also obtain patents that may require us to
negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and there can be no assurance that
the required licenses would be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also
rely on nondisclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees,
consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other
proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be
breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will
not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or
that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or
proprietary knowledge.

19

Table of Contents
          Product liability claims could adversely impact our
financial condition and our earnings and impair our reputation.

          Our
business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in
the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of
the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the
human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing defects,
design flaws or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or
product-related information with respect to these or other products we manufacture
or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a
patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability
claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products
which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body
of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. We have
elected to self-insure with respect to product liability risks. Product
liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate
outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation
and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products.

          Healthcare policy changes, including recent federal
legislation to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse
effect on us.

          In
response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, there
have been and continue to be proposals by the federal government, state
governments, regulators and third-party payors to control these costs and, more
generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system. Certain of these proposals
could limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of
reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and
availability of our products. Moreover, as discussed below, recent federal
legislation would impose significant new taxes on medical device makers such as
us. The adoption of some or all of these proposals, including the recent federal
legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and
results of operations.

          On
March 23, 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act. The legislation imposes significant new taxes on medical device
makers. Under the legislation, the total cost to the medical device industry
would be approximately $20 billion over ten years. These taxes will result in a
significant increase in the tax burden on our industry, which could have a material,
negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows. Other elements
of this legislation such as comparative effectiveness research, an independent
payment advisory board, payment system reforms including shared savings pilots
and other provisions could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed
and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business.

          Our self-insurance program may not be adequate to
cover future losses.

          We
have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. We made this decision
based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly
higher levels of self-insurance retentions, increasing numbers of coverage
limitations and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We continue to
monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining
insurance coverage in the future. While based on historical loss trends we
believe that our self-insurance program accruals will be adequate to cover
future losses, we cannot guarantee that this will remain true. Historical
trends may not be indicative of future losses. These losses could have a
material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition
and/or cash flows.

20

Table of Contents
          If we experience decreasing prices for our goods and
services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations
will suffer.

          We
may experience decreasing prices for the goods and services we offer due to
pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations
and other third-party payors, increased market power of our customers as the
medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical
engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our goods
and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of
operations will be adversely affected.

          We are subject to a variety of risks due to our
international operations that could adversely affect those operations or our
profitability and operating results.

          Our
operations in countries outside the U.S., which accounted for 41 percent of our
net sales for the year ended April 30, 2010, are accompanied by certain
financial and other risks. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities
in sales outside the U.S., which could expose us to greater risks associated
with international sales and operations. Our profitability and international
operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and
potential costs, including: 


 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 changes in
 foreign medical reimbursement programs and policies, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 changes in
 foreign regulatory requirements, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 local
 product preferences and product requirements, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 longer-term
 receivables than are typical in the U.S.,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 fluctuations
 in foreign currency exchange rates,
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 less
 protection of intellectual property in some countries outside the U.S., 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 trade
 protection measures and import and export licensing requirements, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 work force
 instability, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 political
 and economic instability, and
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 •
 
 
 the
 potential payment of U.S. income taxes on certain earnings of our foreign
 subsidiaries’ upon repatriation.
 
 


          In
particular, the Obama administration has announced potential legislative
proposals to tax profits of U.S. companies earned abroad. While it is
impossible for us to predict whether these and other proposals will be
implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may materially impact
our results of operations if, for example, our profits earned abroad are
subject to U.S. income tax or we are otherwise disallowed deductions as a
result of these profits.

          In
addition, a significant amount of trade receivables are with national
healthcare systems in many countries. In light of the current economic state of
many foreign countries, we continue to monitor their creditworthiness; however,
repayment is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those
countries.

          Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an
adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.

          Many
healthcare industry companies, including medical device companies, are
consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the
healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to
industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may
try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for
medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we are forced to
reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our
revenues would decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition
and/or cash flows would suffer.

21

Table of Contents

          Our
business is indirectly subject to healthcare industry cost containment measures
that could result in reduced sales of medical devices containing our
components.

          Most
of our customers, and the healthcare providers to whom our customers supply
medical devices, rely on third-party payors, including government programs and
private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the
procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture
or assemble are used. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies
and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs could
lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these
third-party payors. If that were to occur, sales of finished medical devices
that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may
reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost containment measures
that healthcare providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and internationally,
could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example, managed care
organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for
pharmaceuticals. While this type of discount pricing does not currently exist
for medical devices, if managed care or other organizations were able to affect
discount pricing for devices, it may result in lower prices to our customers
from their customers and, in turn, reduce the amounts we can charge our
customers for our medical devices.

          Our
research and development efforts rely upon investments and alliances, and we
cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or alliances will be
successful.

          Our
strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier
lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. The
rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the
specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult
for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions.
In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development
efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon
investments and alliances to provide us access to new technologies both in
areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas.

          We
expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the
development of, or acquire, new technologies and products to further our
strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and
alliances in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we
cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or alliances
will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated
earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.

          The
success of many of our products depends upon strong relationships with
physicians.

          If
we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our
products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and
expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could
cause a decline in earnings and profitability. The research, development,
marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon
our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these
professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience
regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians assist us
as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors and public
speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these
professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development
and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material effect
on our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.

          Negative
conditions in the global credit market may impair our commercial paper program,
our auction rate securities and our other fixed income securities, which may
cause losses and cause us to face liquidity issues.

          We
have investments in marketable debt securities which are classified and
accounted for as available-for-sale. Our debt securities include U.S. and
foreign government and agency securities, corporate debt securities,
certificates of deposit and mortgage backed and other asset backed securities
including auction rate securities. Market conditions over the past several
years have included periods of significant economic uncertainty and at times
general market distress especially in the banking and financial services
sector. During these periods of economic uncertainty, we may experience reduced
liquidity across the fixed income investment market, including the securities
that we invest in. In the event we need to sell these securities, we may not be
able to do so in a timely manner or for a value that is equal to the underlying
principal. In addition, we may
be required to adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an
impairment charge. If we determine that the fair value of the securities is
temporarily impaired, we would record a temporary impairment within other
comprehensive income, a component of shareholders’ equity. If it is determined
that the fair value of these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, we
would record a loss in our consolidated statements of earnings, which could
materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.

22

Table of Contents

          Negative
market conditions may also impair our ability to access the capital markets
through the issuance of commercial paper or debt securities, or may impact our
ability to sell such securities at a reasonable price and may negatively impact
our ability to borrow from financial institutions.

Item 1B