Item 1A. Risk Factors” and Note 15
to the consolidated financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto for additional information.
Markets and Distribution Methods
We sell most of our medical devices through direct sales representatives in the U.S.
and a combination of direct sales representatives and independent distributors in international markets. The main target markets
for our medical devices are the U.S., Western Europe, and Japan. Our primary customers include physicians, hospitals, other
medical institutions, and group purchasing organizations.
Our marketing and sales strategy is focused on rapid, cost-effective delivery of
high-quality products to a diverse group of customers worldwide. To achieve this objective, we organize our marketing and sales
teams around physician specialties. This focus enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales representatives
who are able to foster strong relationships with physicians and other customers, and enhance our ability to cross-sell complementary
products. We believe that we maintain excellent working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry that
enable us to gain a detailed understanding of therapeutic and diagnostic developments, trends and emerging opportunities, and
respond quickly to the changing needs of physicians and patients. We attempt to enhance our presence in the medical community
through active participation in medical meetings and by conducting comprehensive training and educational activities. We believe
that these activities contribute to physician expertise and loyalty to our products.
In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare delivery,
the current trend among hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers is to consolidate into larger purchasing
groups to enhance purchasing power. As a result, transactions with customers have become increasingly significant, more complex,
and tend to involve more long-term contracts than in the past. This enhanced purchasing power may also lead to pressure on
pricing and increased use of preferred vendors. We are not dependent on any single customer for more than 10 percent of our
total net sales.
Competition and Industry
We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 120
countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific
discoveries. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with
multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of products. In addition, we face competition
from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies.
Major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems,
physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of product quality in the medical device industry. In the
current environment of managed care, economically motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition,
and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to continue
to compete effectively, we must continue to create or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into proprietary
products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market these products.



23





Table of Contents


Worldwide Operations
For financial reporting purposes, net sales and long-lived assets attributable to
significant geographic areas are presented in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements and is set forth in Exhibit 13
hereto and which will be included in our fiscal year 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (2007 Annual Report).



Impact of Business Outside of the U.S.
Our operations in countries outside the U.S. are accompanied by certain financial
and other risks. Relationships with customers and effective terms of sale vary by country, often with longer-term receivables
than are typical in the U.S. Inventory management is an important business concern due to the potential for obsolescence, long
lead times from sole source providers and currency exposure. Currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect net sales from,
and profitability of, operations outside the U.S. We attempt to hedge these exposures to reduce the effects of foreign currency
fluctuations on net earnings. See the “Market Risk” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, set forth in Exhibit 13
hereto and which will be included in our 2007 Annual Report. In addition, the repatriation of certain earnings of our foreign
subsidiaries’ may result in substantial U.S. tax cost.
Production and Availability of Raw Materials
We manufacture most of our products at 22 manufacturing facilities located in various
countries throughout the world. The largest of these manufacturing facilities are located in Arizona, California, Florida,
Indiana, Ireland, Massachusetts, Mexico, Minnesota, Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Texas, and Washington. We purchase many
of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. For
reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available
only from a sole supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to help ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality
and reliability. Due to the FDA’s requirements regarding manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish
additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. Generally, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies
of such raw materials and components. However, the reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative
sources for such supply, could adversely affect our operations.
Employees
On April 27, 2007, we employed approximately 38,000 employees. Our employees
are vital to our success. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a highly competitive
labor market due to our competitive compensation and benefits, and our rewarding work environment. We believe our employee
relations are excellent.
Seasonality
Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality.



24





Table of Contents


Government Regulation and Other Considerations
Our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including
the FDA and comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations
governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our medical devices.
Authorization to commercially distribute a new medical device in the U.S. is generally
received in one of two ways. The first, known as the 510(k) process, requires us to demonstrate that our new medical device
is substantially equivalent to a legally marketed medical device. In this process, we must submit data that supports our equivalence
claim. If human clinical data is required, it must be gathered in compliance with FDA investigational device exemption regulations.
We must receive an order from the FDA finding substantial equivalence to another legally marketed medical device before we
can commercially distribute the new medical device. Modifications to cleared medical devices can be made without using the
510(k) process if the changes do not significantly affect safety or effectiveness. A very small number of our devices are exempt
from 510(k) clearance requirements.
The second, more rigorous process, known as PMA, requires us to independently demonstrate
that the new medical device is safe and effective. We do this by collecting data, including human clinical data for the medical
device. The FDA will authorize commercial release if it determines there is reasonable assurance that the medical device is
safe and effective. This process is generally much more time-consuming and expensive than the 510(k) process.
Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities
under FDA regulations. The FDA reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers’
required reports of adverse experience and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices.
We may be subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s good manufacturing practice regulations
among other FDA requirements, such as restrictions on advertising and promotion. These regulations, also known as the Quality
System Regulations, govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging
and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance
with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk,
the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair,
replacement, or refund of such devices, and require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable
risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain
violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees,
or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice.
The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), administers
controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of
our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. The FDA also administers certain controls over
the export of medical devices from the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval
are subject to FDA export requirements. Each foreign country to which we export medical devices also subjects such medical
devices to their own regulatory requirements. Frequently, we obtain regulatory approval for medical devices in foreign countries
first because their regulatory approval is faster or simpler than that of the FDA. However, as a general matter, foreign regulatory
requirements are becoming increasingly stringent. In the European Union, a single regulatory approval process has been created,
and approval is represented by the CE Mark. To obtain a CE Mark in the European Union, defined products must meet minimum standards
of safety and quality (i.e., the essential requirements) and then comply with one or more of a selection of conformity routes.
A Notified Body assesses the quality management systems of the manufacturer and the product conformity to the essential and
other requirements within the Medical Device Directive. Medtronic is subject to inspection by Notified Bodies for compliance.
To be sold in Japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations
and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval, or “shonin.” The Japanese government,




25





Table of Contents



through the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare (MHLW), regulates medical devices under recently enacted revisions to the
Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (PAL). Implementation of PAL and enforcement practices thereunder are evolving, and compliance guidance
from MHLW is still in development. Consequently, companies continue to work on establishing improved systems for compliance
with PAL. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance with PAL could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s
business license and criminal sanctions.
The process of obtaining approval to distribute medical products is costly and time-consuming
in virtually all of the major markets where we sell medical devices. We cannot assure that any new medical devices we develop
will be approved in a timely or cost-effective manner.
Federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information,
including patient medical records, and restrict the use and disclosure of patient health information by healthcare providers.
In particular, in April 2003, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) published patient privacy rules under
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA privacy rule). The HIPAA privacy rule governs the use
and disclosure of protected health information by “Covered Entities,” which are healthcare providers that submit
electronic claims, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. Other than our Diabetes operating segment and our health insurance
plans, each of which is a Covered Entity, and the role representatives play in providing technical support to physicians while
providing patient care, the HIPAA privacy rule affects us indirectly. The patient data that we receive and analyze may include
protected health information. We are committed to maintaining patients’ privacy and working with our customers and business
partners in their HIPAA compliance efforts. The ongoing costs and impacts of assuring compliance with the HIPAA privacy rules
are not material to our business.
Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs,
including price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing
in many countries where we do business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis
on the delivery of more cost-effective medical devices. Government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private healthcare
insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for
particular procedures or treatments, and other mechanisms designed to constrain utilization and contain cost, including, for
example, gainsharing, where a hospital agrees with physicians to share any realized cost savings resulting from the physicians’
collective change in practice patterns such as standardization of devices where medically appropriate. This has created an
increasing level of price sensitivity among customers for our products. Some third-party payors must also approve coverage
for new or innovative devices or therapies before they will reimburse healthcare providers who use the medical devices or therapies.
Even though a new medical device may have been cleared for commercial distribution, we may find limited demand for the device
until reimbursement approval has been obtained from governmental and private third-party payors. In addition, some private
third-party payors require that certain procedures or that the use of certain products be authorized in advance as a condition
of reimbursement. As a result of our manufacturing efficiencies and cost controls, we believe we are well-positioned to respond
to changes resulting from the worldwide trend toward cost-containment; however, uncertainty remains as to the nature of any
future legislation, making it difficult for us to predict the potential impact of cost-containment trends on future operating
results.
The delivery of our devices is subject to regulation by HHS and comparable state
and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of healthcare items and services. U.S. laws and regulations
are imposed primarily in connection with the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as the government’s interest in regulating
the quality and cost of healthcare. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement
programs and the delivery of healthcare items and services.
Federal healthcare laws apply when we or customers submit claims for items or services
that are reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-funded healthcare programs. The principal federal laws include:
(1) the False Claims Act which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally-funded
health care program; (2) the Anti-Kickback Statute




26





Table of Contents



which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of inducing or rewarding referrals of items
or services reimbursable by a Federal healthcare program; and (3) the Stark law which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare
or Medicaid patients to an entity for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of
the physician’s immediate family) has a financial relationship with that entity. There are often similar state false claims,
anti-kickback and anti-self referral laws that apply to claims submitted under state Medicaid or state-funded healthcare programs.
The laws applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental
authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Medtronic, its officers and
employees, could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including substantial penalties, fines and damages, and
exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare or Medicaid.
We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation
can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or
result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. At any given time, we are generally involved
as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions. While it is not possible to predict the outcome
of patent litigation incident to our business, we believe the costs associated with this type of litigation could generally
have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. See Note
15 to the consolidated financial statements set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto for additional information.
We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. These
claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief or by groups seeking to represent a class. In addition, product liability
claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time.
We are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and
outside the U.S. Like other medical device companies, our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental
laws, primarily manufacturing and sterilization processes. We do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws
will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. This decision was made
based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions,
increasing number of coverage limitations and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We continue to monitor the insurance
marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage in the future. Based on historical loss trends, we
believe that our self-insurance program accruals will be adequate to cover future losses. Historical trends, however, may not
be indicative of future losses. These losses could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.
Executive Officers of Medtronic
Set forth below are the names and ages of current executive officers of Medtronic,
Inc., as well as information regarding their positions with Medtronic, Inc., their periods of service in these capacities,
and their business experiences. There are no family relationships among any of the officers named, nor is there any arrangement
or understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.

Arthur D. Collins, Jr., age 59, has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic since
April 2002; President and Chief Executive Officer from May 2001 to April 2002; President and Chief Operating Officer from August
1996 to April 2001; Chief Operating Officer from January 1994 to August 1996; and Executive Vice President of Medtronic and
President of Medtronic International from June 1992 to January 1994. He was Corporate Vice President of Abbott Laboratories
from October 1989 to May 1992 and Divisional Vice President of that company from May 1984 to October 1989. He is also a director
of The Boeing Company, U.S. Bancorp and Cargill, Inc., a member of the Board of Overseers of The Wharton School at the University
of Pennsylvania and a member of




27





Table of Contents



the board of The Institute of Health Technology Studies. At the 2007 Annual Meeting, Mr. Collins is expected to resign
as Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic and continue as Chairman of the Board of Medtronic.

Susan Alpert, Ph.D., M.D., age 61, has been Senior Vice President, Chief Quality and Regulatory Officer since
November 2005. Prior to that she was Vice President, Chief Quality and Regulatory Officer from May 2004 to November 2005, and
Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and Compliance from July 2003 to May 2004. Prior to that, she was Vice President of Regulatory
Sciences at C.R. Bard, Inc. from October 2000 to July 2003. She held a variety of positions at the Food & Drug Administration
from June 1987 to August 2000.

Jean-Luc Butel,, age 50, has been Senior Vice President and President, Asia Pacific, since September 2003. Prior
to that, he was President of Independence Technology, a Johnson & Johnson company, from 1999 to 2003. From 1991 to 1999,
he worked for Becton Dickinson, initially as General Manager of its Microbiology business in Japan and then as President of
Nippon Becton Dickinson. His last assignment at Becton Dickinson was President, Worldwide Consumer Healthcare. From 1984 to
1991, Mr. Butel was with Johnson & Johnson and served multiple roles including General Manager of Fiji, China Project
Manager and Marketing Director of the Johnson & Johnson ophthalmic business in Southeast Asia.

Terrance L. Carlson, age 54, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October
2004. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Business Development, General Counsel and Secretary at PerkinElmer, Inc.
from June 1999 to September 2004; Deputy General Counsel of AlliedSignal (now Honeywell International) and General Counsel
of AlliedSignal Aerospace from April 1994 to June 1999; and an associate and partner of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher from November
1978 to April 1994.

H. James Dallas, age 48, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer since April 2006. Prior
to that, he was Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Georgia Pacific from December 2002 to December 2005; General
Manager of the Transportation Division and President of the Lumber Division from October 2001 to December 2002; and Vice President,
Building Products Distribution Sales and Logistics, Georgia Pacific Corporation from October 2000 to October 2001.

Michael F. DeMane, age 51, has been Senior Vice President since May 2007, and prior to that was Senior
Vice President and President of Europe, Canada, Latin America and Emerging Markets since August 2005. He served as Senior Vice
President and President, Spinal, ENT and Navigation, since February 2002 and President, Spinal, since January 2000. Prior to
that, he was President, Interbody Technologies, a division of Sofamor Danek, from June 1998 to December 1999. Prior to joining
the Company in 1998, Mr. DeMane served as Managing Director, Australia and New Zealand, for Smith & Nephew, Pty. Ltd
from April 1996 to June 1998, after a series of research and development and general management positions with Smith &
Nephew Inc. At the 2007 Annual Meeting, Mr. DeMane is expected to be named Chief Operating Officer of Medtronic.

Gary L. Ellis, age 50, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior to that,
he was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Treasurer since October 1999 and Vice President Corporate Controller from August
1994. Mr. Ellis joined Medtronic in 1989 as Assistant Corporate Controller and was promoted to Vice President of Finance
for Medtronic Europe in 1992, until being named as Corporate Controller in 1994. Mr. Ellis is a member of the board of
directors of The Toro Company and chairman of the American Heart Association.

William A. Hawkins, age 53, has been a Director of Medtronic since March 2007 and President and Chief Operating
Officer of Medtronic since May 2004. He served as Senior Vice President and President, Medtronic Vascular, from January 2002
to May 2004. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Novoste Corporation from 1998 to 2002. Mr. Hawkins
serves on the board of directors of Deluxe Corporation, the board of trustees for the University of Virginia Darden School
of Business and the board of visitors for the Duke University School of Engineering. At the 2007 Annual Meeting, Mr. Hawkins
is expected to be named President and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic.



28





Table of Contents



Richard Kuntz, M.D., age 50, has been Senior Vice President and President, Neuromodulation since October 2005.
Prior to that, he was an interventional cardiologist and Chief of the Division of Clinical Biometrics at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital, Associate Professor of Medicine and Chief Scientific Office of the Harvard Clinical Research Institute.

Stephen H. Mahle, age 61, has been Executive Vice President and President, Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management,
since May 2004, and prior to that was Senior Vice President and President, Cardiac Rhythm Management, since January 1998. Prior
to that, he was President, Brady Pacing, from 1995 to 1997 and Vice President and General Manager, Brady Pacing, from 1990
to 1995. Mr. Mahle has been with the Company for 34 years and served in various general management positions prior to
1990. Mr. Mahle serves on the board of directors of ATMI, Inc.

Carol McCormick, age 53, has been Senior Vice President, Human Resources, since April 2007. She was Vice
President, Human Resources at CRDM from May 2004 to March 2007. Prior to that she was Vice President of Human Resources for
Neurological and Diabetes from August 2000 to May 2004 and Human Resources Director for Drug Delivery and Functional Diagnostics
business from September 1996 to August 2000. Ms. McCormick joined the Company in 1989.

Christopher J. O’Connell, age 40, has been Senior Vice President, and President of Diabetes since October
2006 and President of Medtronic’s Emergency Response Systems division from May 2005 to October 2006. Prior to that he
was Vice President of Sales and Marketing of Medtronic’s Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management division from November 2001
to May 2005 and Vice President/General Manager of the Patient Management Business from January 2000 to November 2001. Mr. O’Connell
has been with the Company for 13 years and served in various management positions.

Stephen N. Oesterle, M.D., age 56, has been Senior Vice President, Medicine and Technology, since January 2002.
Prior to that, he was Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and Director of Invasive Cardiology Services
at Massachusetts General Hospital from 1998 to 2002, and was Associate Professor of Medicine at Stanford University and Director
of Cardiac Catheterization and Coronary Intervention Laboratories at the Stanford University Medical Center from 1992 to 1998.
Prior to that he held other academic positions and directed interventional cardiology programs at Georgetown University and
in Los Angeles.

Oern R. Stuge, M.D., age 53, has been Senior Vice President and President, Medtronic Europe, Emerging Markets
and Canada since May 2007. Prior to that he was Senior Vice President and President of Cardiac Surgery since March 2005,
Vice President of Cardiac Rhythm Management, Western Europe from May 2002 to March 2005, Vice President of Neurological, Spinal
and Diabetes for Western Europe from May 2000 to May 2002 and Vice President of Neurological for Europe, Middle East &
Africa from May 1998 to May 2000. Prior to joining the Company in 1998, Mr. Stuge worked at Abbott Laboratories where
he held regional director and general manager positions for the various Nordic countries and the Netherlands.

Scott R. Ward, age 47, has been Senior Vice President and President, CardioVascular since May 2007. Prior
to that he was Senior Vice President and President, Vascular from May 2004 to May 2007, Senior Vice President and President,
Neurological and Diabetes Business, from February 2002 to May 2004, and was President, Neurological, from January 2000
to January 2002. He was Vice President and General Manager of Medtronic’s Drug Delivery Business from 1995 to 2000.
Prior to that, Mr. Ward led the Company’s Neurological Ventures in the successful development of new therapies. Mr. Ward
also held various research, regulatory and business development positions since joining Medtronic in 1981.

Peter L. Wehrly, age 48, has been Senior Vice President and President, Spinal and Navigation since August 2005.
Prior to that he was President and General Manager of Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. from August 2004 to August 2005, President
of Biologics and U.S. Sales from April 2003 to August 2004, and Division President of Interbody and Orthopedic Technologies
from 2000 to April 2003. From 1983 to 2000 he was employed by Johnson and Johnson, most recently as Division President at DePuy.

Barry W. Wilson, age 63, has been Senior Vice President, International Affairs since February 2007, and was Senior
Vice President, International Affairs and President, Greater China from August 2005 to




29





Table of Contents



February 2007. He served as Senior Vice President and President, Europe, Middle East, Canada and Emerging Markets since May
2004. Prior to that, Mr. Wilson was Senior Vice President and President, International, from April 2001 to April 2004,
and Senior Vice President, International, since September 1997. He was President, Europe, Middle East and Africa, from April
1995 to March 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Wilson was President, International, of the Lederle Division of American Cyanamid/American
Home Products from 1993 to 1995 and President, Europe, of Bristol-Myers Squibb from 1991 to 1993, where he also served internationally
in various general management positions from 1980 to 1991. Mr. Wilson serves on the board of directors of Bausch &
Lomb Incorporated and Rezidor Hotel Group AB.

Item 1A.  Risk Factors
Investing in Medtronic involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown,
including, among others, those discussed below.

The medical device industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively.

We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 120
countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific
discoveries. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with
multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of products. Development by other companies of
new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our products or proposed products less competitive. In addition,
we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. Competitive factors include:


 
•
product reliability,


 
•
product performance,


 
•
product technology,


 
•
product quality,


 
•
breadth of product lines,


 
•
product services,


 
•
customer support,


 
•
price, and


 
•
reimbursement approval from healthcare insurance providers.


Major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems,
physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of product quality in the medical device industry. In the
current environment of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement
rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to compete effectively, we
must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products,
obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Given these factors,
we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry.

Reduction or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply may adversely affect our
manufacturing operations and related product sales.

We manufacture most of our products at 22 manufacturing facilities located throughout
the world. We purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers
in various countries. Generally we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials and components. However,
for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, we procure certain components and raw materials
only from a sole supplier. While we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining
high quality and




30





Table of Contents



reliability, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements
of the U.S. FDA regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement
sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative
sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost effective manner
and to make our related product sales.

We are subject to many laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect
our financial condition and business operations.

Our medical devices are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including
the FDA and comparable foreign agencies. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations
governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our medical devices. We cannot
guarantee that we will be able to obtain marketing clearance from the FDA for our new products, or enhancements or modifications
to existing products, and if we do, such approval may:


 
•
take a significant amount of time,


 
•
require the expenditure of substantial resources,


 
•
involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing,


 
•
involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and


 
•
result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products.


Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities
under FDA regulations. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that
any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain
or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, and require
us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public
health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining
to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend
prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively
marketing and selling our products.
Foreign governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent, and we may become
subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for a company’s noncompliance
with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company’s business license
and criminal sanctions. Any domestic or foreign governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse
effect on us.
We are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations both within and
outside the U.S. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily those used in manufacturing
and sterilization processes. We cannot guarantee that compliance with environmental protection laws and regulations will not
have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash flows.

Our failure to comply with strictures relating to reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services may subject
us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation and business operations.

Our devices are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) as well as comparable
state and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services. Foreign governments
also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement programs and the delivery of healthcare goods and
services. U.S. federal government healthcare laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a U.S. federal healthcare program
beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim for an item or service that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal




31





Table of Contents



government funded healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated include those
that prohibit the filing of false or improper claims for federal payment, those that prohibit unlawful inducements for the
referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded healthcare programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and those that
prohibit healthcare service providers seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by
a physician that has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark
law.
The laws applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental
authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees
could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier
of product to beneficiaries covered by CMS. If we are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation it could
adversely affect our reputation and business operations.

Quality problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for producing high quality products
and erode our competitive advantage.

Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly
consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services.
If we fail to meet these standards our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue could decline.
Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision
engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards
or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality components will be harmed, our competitive
advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share.

We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to be successful in patent or other
litigation may result in our payment of significant money damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to
sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing our patent and proprietary rights against others.

We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation
can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or
require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. At any given time, we
are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which
may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incident
to our business, we believe the results associated with any litigation could result in our payment of significant money damages
and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products or prohibit us from enforcing our
patent and proprietary rights against others, which would generally have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings,
financial condition, or cash flows.
We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and nondisclosure and non-competition
agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against
any threats to our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these patents, trade secrets, or other agreements
will adequately protect our intellectual property. There can also be no assurance that pending patent applications owned by
us will result in patents issuing to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be
challenged or circumvented by competitors or that such patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our
technology or to provide us with any competitive advantage. Third parties could also obtain patents that may require us to
negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and there can be no assurance that the required licenses would be available on
reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on nondisclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants
and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements
will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially
equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary
knowledge.



32





Table of Contents



Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and our earnings and impair our reputation.

Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in
the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell
are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects
or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to these or other products we
manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. The occurrence of such a problem
could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products which could
ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith.
We have elected to self-insure with respect to product liability risks. Product liability claims or product recalls in the
future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our
ability to attract and retain customers for our products.

Our self-insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses.

We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks. We made this decision
based on conditions in the insurance marketplace that have led to increasingly higher levels of self-insurance retentions,
increasing numbers of coverage limitations and dramatically higher insurance premium rates. We continue to monitor the insurance
marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage in the future. While based on historical loss trends
we believe that our self-insurance program accruals will be adequate to cover future losses, we cannot guarantee that this
will remain true. Historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. These losses could have a material adverse impact
on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash flows.

If we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of
operations will suffer.

We may experience decreasing prices for the goods and services we offer due to pricing
pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payors; increased market power
of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates; and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing
services providers. If the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results
of operations will be adversely affected.

Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that could adversely affect those operations and thus our
profitability and operating results.

Our operations in countries outside the U.S., which accounted for 36 percent of our
net sales for the year ended April 27, 2007, are accompanied by certain financial and other risks. We intend to continue
to pursue growth opportunities in sales internationally, which could expose us to greater risks associated with international
sales and operations. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential
costs, including:


 
•
changes in foreign medical reimbursement programs and policies,


 
•
changes in foreign regulatory requirements,


 
•
local product preferences and product requirements,


 
•
longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.,


 
•
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates,


 
•
less protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.,


 
•
trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements,


 
•
work force instability,


 
•
political and economic instability, and


 
•
the potential payment of U.S. income taxes on certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries’ upon repatriation.





33





Table of Contents



Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.

Many healthcare industry companies, including medical device companies, are consolidating
to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and
services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to
negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components produced by us. If we are forced
to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues would decrease and our consolidated
earnings, financial condition, or cash flows would suffer.

Healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us.

Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and
may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payors to keep these costs down. Certain proposals,
if passed, could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement
available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse
effect on our financial position and results of operations.

Our business is indirectly subject to healthcare industry cost containment measures that could result in reduced sales
of medical devices containing our components.

Most of our customers, and the healthcare providers to whom our customers supply
medical devices, rely on third-party payors, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse
some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are
used. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies, and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce
these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payors. If that were
to occur, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce
or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, both in
the U.S. and internationally, could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example, managed care organizations have successfully
negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals. While this type of discount pricing does not currently exist for medical devices,
if managed care or other organizations were able to affect discount pricing for devices, it may result in lower prices to our
customers from their customers and, in turn, reduce the amounts we can charge our customers for our medical devices.

Our research and development efforts rely upon investments and alliances, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or
future investments or alliances will be successful.

Our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller,
healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development
in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company
alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research
and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and alliances to provide
us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas.
We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development
of, or acquire, new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments
and alliances in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous
or future investments or alliances will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial
condition, or cash flows.



34





Table of Contents



The success of many of our products depends upon strong relationships with physicians.

If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products
may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products,
which could cause a decline in earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing, and sales of many of our new
and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals
to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians
assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and as public speakers. If we are unable to maintain
our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing
of our products could suffer, which could have a material effect on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, or cash
flows.

Item 1B