Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability


 


    Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and GICs, expose us to the risk that
    changes in interest rates will reduce our “spread,” or
    the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay
    under the contracts in the Company’s general account and
    the rate of return we are able to earn on general account
    investments intended to support obligations under the contracts.
    Our spread is a key component of our net income.


 


    As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and
    mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with
    greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates
    can help offset decreases in investment margins on some
    products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be
    limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates
    and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset
    yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially
    become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an
    important component in the amortization of deferred policy
    acquisition costs (“DAC”) and value of business
    acquired (“VOBA”) and significantly lower spreads may
    cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income
    in the affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of
    declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products
    may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers,
    resulting in increased premium payments on products with
    flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and
    increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance
    policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period
    when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in
    market interest rates could also reduce our return on
    investments that do not support particular policy obligations.
    Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely
    affect our results of operations, financial position and cash
    flows and significantly reduce our profitability.


 


    Our results in Taiwan are highly sensitive to interest rates and
    other related assumptions because of the sustained low interest
    rate environment in Taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate
    guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health
    contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of
    long-duration assets in



    
    27



Table of Contents




    the Taiwanese capital markets to match such long-duration
    liabilities. During the fourth quarter of 2006, our Taiwanese
    operation recorded a loss recognition adjustment (in the form of
    accelerated DAC amortization) of $50 million, net of income
    tax, due, principally, to the continued low interest rate
    environment. The loss recognition testing that resulted in the
    charge during the fourth quarter of 2006 used a current best
    estimate of Taiwanese interest rates of 2.1% rising to 3.5% over
    the next ten years and a corresponding increase in related lapse
    rates. If interest rates and related lapse assumptions do not
    improve, notwithstanding other actions we may take to reduce the
    impact, current estimates of future loss recognition of as much
    as $100 million, net of income tax, could be recognized in
    our results of operations in one or more future periods and
    additional capital may be required to be contributed to the
    Taiwanese operation. The results of loss recognition testing for
    Taiwan are inherently uncertain given the use of various
    assumptions and the long-term nature of the liability, and
    therefore, can only be reliably estimated within broad ranges
    which may vary significantly in future periods.


 


    Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    assets in the Company’s general account with higher
    yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates
    necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We,
    therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower
    profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of
    existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
    loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as
    policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as
    interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows
    requiring that we sell invested assets at a time when the prices
    of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market
    interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses.
    Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to
    accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which would
    increase our current expenses and reduce net income. An increase
    in market interest rates could also have a material adverse
    effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by
    decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that
    comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio.


 



    Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses


 


    Our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of
    trends that affect the insurance industry. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Results of
    Operations — Industry Trends.”


 


    Financial and Economic Environment.  During
    2007, the global capital markets reassessed the credit risk
    inherent in sub-prime mortgages. This reassessment led to a
    fairly broad repricing of all credit risk assets and strained
    market liquidity. Global central banks intervened to stabilize
    market conditions and protect against downside risks to economic
    growth. Still, market and economic conditions continued to
    deteriorate. The economic community’s consensus outlook of
    global economic growth is lower for calendar year 2008, with a
    sizable minority of economists forecasting a recessionary
    environment. The global capital markets have adjusted towards
    this consensus outlook, with interest rates and equity prices
    falling and risk spreads widening. Slow growth and recessionary
    periods are often associated with declining asset prices, lower
    interest rates, credit rating agency downgrades and increasing
    default losses. The global capital markets are also less liquid
    now than in more normal environments. Liquidity conditions
    impact the cost of purchasing and selling assets and, at times,
    the ability to purchase or sell assets. These adjustments in the
    global capital markets have also resulted in higher realized and
    expected volatility.


 


    As expectations for global economic growth are lowered, factors
    such as consumer spending, business investment, government
    spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets,
    and inflation all affect the business and economic environment
    and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of the business we
    conduct. In an economic downturn characterized by higher
    unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings,
    lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the
    demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely
    affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Competitive Pressures.  The life insurance
    industry remains highly competitive. The product development and
    product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments,
    leading to more intense competition with respect to product
    features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand
    equity, product development, technology



    
    28



Table of Contents




    and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for
    sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In
    addition, several of the industry’s products can be quite
    homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient
    scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming
    prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance
    industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity
    to invest in additional distribution capability and the
    information technology needed to offer the superior customer
    service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry
    client base. See “— Competitive Factors May
    Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability” and
    “Business — Competition.”


 


    Regulatory Changes.  The life insurance
    industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and
    services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers
    introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine
    capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for
    the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or
    currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and
    capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators
    have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several
    markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities,
    variable annuities and group products. See “— Our
    Insurance Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth” and “Business —
    Regulation — Insurance Regulation.”


 


    Pension Plans.  On August 17, 2006,
    President Bush signed the PPA into law. The PPA is a
    comprehensive reform of defined benefit and defined contribution
    plan rules. While the impact of the PPA is generally expected to
    be positive over time, these changes may have adverse short-term
    effects on our business as plan sponsors may react to these
    changes in a variety of ways as the new rules and related
    regulations begin to take effect.


 



    A
    Decline in Equity Markets or an Increase in Volatility in Equity
    Markets May Adversely Affect Sales of Our Investment Products
    and Our Profitability


 


    Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations in three principal ways.


 


    First, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases
    of separate account products, such as variable annuities,
    variable life insurance and mutual funds that have returns
    linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause
    some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce
    investments in those products.


 


    Second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our
    savings and investment products and services. Because these
    products and services depend on fees related primarily to the
    value of assets under management, a decline in the equity
    markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the
    investment assets we manage. The retail annuity business in
    particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a
    sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and
    earnings in variable annuity products.


 


    Third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products
    that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the
    equity markets. For example, we offer variable annuity products
    with guaranteed features, such as minimum death and withdrawal
    benefits. These guarantees may be more costly than expected in
    volatile or declining equity market conditions, causing us to
    increase liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively
    affecting net income.


 



    Adverse
    Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Access to
    Capital, Cost of Capital and Ability to Meet Liquidity
    Needs


 


    Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit markets may
    limit our access to capital which is required to operate our
    business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such
    market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely
    manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital
    requirements; meet liquidity needs; and access the capital
    necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to
    delay raising capital, issue shorter tenors than we prefer, or
    pay unattractive interest rates; thereby, increasing our
    interest expense, decreasing our profitability and significantly
    reducing our financial flexibility. Overall, our results of
    operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory
    capital position could be materially adversely affected by
    disruptions in the financial markets.



    
    29



Table of Contents





    The
    Performance of Our Investments Depends on Conditions that Are
    Outside Our Control, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary from
    Period to Period


 


    The performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon
    the level of and changes in interest rates, risk spreads, equity
    prices, real estate values, foreign currency exchange rates,
    market volatility, the performance of the economy in general,
    the performance of the specific obligors included in our
    portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. Changes
    in these factors can affect our net investment income in any
    period, and such changes can be substantial.


 


    We invest a portion of our invested assets in pooled investment
    funds many of which make private equity investments. The amount
    and timing of income from such investment funds tends to be
    uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying
    investments, including private equity investments. The timing of
    distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events
    relating to the underlying investments, as well as the
    funds’ schedules for making distributions and their needs
    for cash can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of
    income that we record from these investments can vary
    substantially from quarter to quarter. Recent equity and credit
    market volatility may reduce investment income for these type of
    investments in the near term.


 



    Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability


 


    Our business segments are subject to intense competition. We
    believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
    including service, product features, scale, price, financial
    strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
    e-business
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial
    services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset
    managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group
    customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and
    investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader
    array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with
    respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability
    ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with
    which to compete. National banks, which may sell annuity
    products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have
    pre-existing customer bases for financial services products.


 


    Many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by
    our Institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and,
    accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able
    to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a
    result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other
    products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.


 


    In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. Many of our competitors in these
    businesses offer a broader array of investment products and
    services and are better known than us as sellers of annuities
    and other investment products. See “Business —
    Competition.”


 



    We May
    be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products


 


    We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for sales
    representatives primarily on the basis of our financial
    position, support services and compensation and product
    features. We continue to undertake several initiatives to grow
    our career agency force while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents. See “Business — Competition.”


 



    Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results


 


    Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how



    
    30



Table of Contents




    much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For
    life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these
    liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including
    estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the
    policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy,
    the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment
    returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we receive.
    We establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and
    benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and
    liabilities incurred. To the extent that actual claims
    experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we
    used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to
    increase our liabilities.


 


    Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our
    liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
    particularly when those payments may not occur until well into
    the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on
    changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as
    well as our actual experience. We charge or credit changes in
    our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are
    established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally
    established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we
    must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business


 


    Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires,
    among other things, policies and procedures to record properly
    and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have
    devoted significant resources to develop our risk management
    policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the
    future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be
    fully effective. Many of our methods for managing risk and
    exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market
    behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result,
    these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be
    significantly greater than our historical measures indicate.
    Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of
    information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence
    or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise
    accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate,
    complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. See
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”


 



    Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability


 


    Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including
    governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating
    the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material
    impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group insurance
    operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one
    or more of our group insurance customers could cause a
    significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These
    events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could
    also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.


 


    Our Auto & Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto & Home
    segment. Although Auto & Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms,
    earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather
    (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards),
    fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks.
    Historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related
    claims have related to homeowners coverages. However,
    catastrophes may also affect other Auto & Home
    coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence,
    timing and severity of catastrophes. See “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Impact of Hurricanes” and
    Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



    
    31



Table of Contents




    Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern United States (including
    lower New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts),
    the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and
    Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure,
    primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central United
    States and in the Pacific Northwest.


 


    The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics,
    hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
    significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are
    heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial
    condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other
    factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could
    increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the
    future.


 


    Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of
    limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as
    legislation restricting an insurer’s ability to withdraw
    from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our
    exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed
    by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or
    multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See “— Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.”


 



    A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) publish as
    indicators of an insurance company’s ability to meet
    contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to
    maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to
    market our products and our competitive position. See
    “Business — Company Ratings — Insurer
    Financial Strength Ratings.”


 


    Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;




 



     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;




 



     
        • 

    
    materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and




 



     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.





 


    In addition to the financial strength ratings of the Holding
    Company’s insurance subsidiaries, various NRSROs also
    publish credit ratings for MetLife, Inc. and several of its
    subsidiaries. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt
    issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a
    timely manner. See “Business — Company
    Ratings — Credit Ratings.” A downgrade in our
    credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition



    
    32



Table of Contents




    and results of operations in many ways, including increasing the
    cost of borrowing or adversely affecting our relationships with
    credit counterparties.


 


    Rating agencies assign ratings based upon many factors, some of
    which relate to general economic conditions and circumstances
    outside of our control. In addition, rating agencies employ
    different models and methods to assess our financial strength
    and creditworthiness, and may alter these models and methods
    from time to time at their discretion. We cannot predict what
    actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in
    response to the actions of rating agencies, which could
    adversely affect our business.


 



    If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC and VOBA Vary
    Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization
    and/or Impair the DAC and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our
    Results of Operations or Financial Condition


 


    We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    The amount of future profit is dependent principally on
    investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
    creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain
    economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, we
    anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the
    rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors
    enter into management’s estimates of gross profits, which
    generally are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of
    gross profits were overstated, then the amortization of such
    costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience
    is known and would result in a charge to income. Such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations or financial condition.


 


    VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in
    a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion
    of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the
    right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and
    annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is
    based on actuarially determined projections. Actual experience
    may vary from the projections. Revisions to estimates result in
    changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which
    the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a
    charge to income. Also, as VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC,
    an acceleration of the amortization of VOBA would occur if the
    estimates of gross profits were overstated. Accordingly, the
    amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in
    which the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    condition.


 



    Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Value of Our Fixed
    Maturity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings


 


    We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of
    fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and
    interest payments they owe us. At December 31, 2007, the
    fixed maturity securities of $242.2 billion in our
    investment portfolio represented 70.2% of our total cash and
    invested assets. The occurrence of a major economic downturn,
    acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other
    events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of these
    securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity
    securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the
    default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment
    portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or
    guarantors of particular securities could also have a similar
    effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or
    guarantors could be adversely affected. Any event reducing the
    value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 



    Defaults
    on Our Mortgage and Consumer Loans May Adversely Affect Our
    Profitability


 


    Our mortgage and consumer loan investments face default risk.
    Our mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized
    by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well
    as automobiles. At December 31, 2007, our mortgage and
    consumer loan investments of $47.0 billion represented
    13.6% of our



    
    33



Table of Contents




    total cash and invested assets. At December 31, 2007, loans
    that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure
    totaled less than 1% of our mortgage and consumer loan
    investments. The performance of our mortgage and consumer loan
    investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. In addition,
    substantially all of our mortgage loan investments have balloon
    payment maturities. An increase in the default rate of our
    mortgage and consumer loan investments could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.


 



    The
    Valuation of Investments May Include Methodologies, Estimations
    and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing Interpretations
    and Could Result in Changes to Investment Valuations That May
    Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition


 


    The fair values for public fixed maturity securities and public
    equity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates
    from independent pricing services. However, in cases where
    quoted market prices are not available, such as for private
    fixed maturities, fair values are estimated using present value
    or valuation techniques. The determination of fair values in the
    absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable;
    and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.


 


    During periods of market disruption including periods of
    significantly rising or high interest rates and/or rapidly
    widening credit spreads it may be difficult to value certain of
    our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market
    data becomes less observable. As such, valuations may include
    inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require
    greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more
    sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in
    values which may be less than the value at which the investments
    may be ultimately sold. Significant period-to-period changes in
    value may also result. Decreases in value may have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    condition.


 



    Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid


 


    We hold certain investments that, even under normal market
    conditions, may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed
    maturity securities; complex structured products; mortgage and
    consumer loans; and equity real estate, including real estate
    joint ventures; other limited partnership interests, and certain
    pooled investment funds. These asset classes represented 28% of
    the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets as of
    December 31, 2007. Under stressful capital market and
    economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates increasing
    the price to purchase and sell assets and at times impacting the
    ability to purchase and sell assets. If we require significant
    amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash
    requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments
    in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we
    otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.


 



    Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities
    Markets Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability


 


    We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated securities and investments in foreign subsidiaries.
    If the currencies of the
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated securities we hold in our investment portfolios
    decline against the U.S. dollar, our investment returns,
    and thus our profitability, may be adversely affected. Although
    we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate
    foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance
    that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties
    will perform their obligations. See “Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 


    From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    emerging markets.



    
    34



Table of Contents




    We have matched substantially all of our foreign currency
    liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated
    in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of
    currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results;
    however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of
    these results into our consolidated financial statements.
    Although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign
    currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely
    affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the
    failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”


 



    Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability


 


    Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See “Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers’ associations and
    trade unions in some countries. If our business model is not
    successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of
    our investment in building and training the sales force in that
    country.


 


    We are currently planning to expand our international operations
    in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This
    may require considerable management time, as well as
    start-up
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market
    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.


 


    The business we acquired from Travelers includes operations in
    several foreign countries, including Australia, Brazil,
    Argentina, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Poland, Japan and Hong
    Kong. See “Business — International.” Those
    operations, and operations in other new markets, are subject to
    the risks described above, as well as our unfamiliarity with the
    business, legal and regulatory environment in any of those
    countries.


 


    In recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been
    challenging. In Argentina, we are principally engaged in the
    pension business. This business has incurred significant losses
    in recent years as a result of actions taken by the Argentinean
    government in response to a sovereign debt crisis in December
    2001. Further governmental or legal actions related to pension
    reform could impact our obligations to our customers and could
    result in future losses in our Argentinean operations.


 


    See also “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability” regarding the
    impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.


 



    Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses


 


    As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See “Business — Reinsurance
    Activity.” While reinsurance agreements generally bind the
    reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally
    fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine
    the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new
    business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for
    business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any
    increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we
    may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
    may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
    terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.



    
    35



Table of Contents





    If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer’s or indemnitor’s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate and
    currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations —
    Investments.” If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor
    their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges
    of the related risk will be ineffective. Such failure could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 



    Our
    Insurance Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth


 


    Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. State insurance laws
    regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and
    the Holding Company’s insurance subsidiaries are regulated
    by the insurance departments of the states in which they are
    domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. Our
    non-U.S. insurance
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and
    operate. See “Business — Regulation —
    Insurance Regulation.”


 


    State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory
    authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    licensing companies and agents to transact business;




 



     
        • 

    
    calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    mandating certain insurance benefits;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating certain premium rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    reviewing and approving policy forms;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating advertising;




 



     
        • 

    
    protecting privacy;




 



     
        • 

    
    establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    approving changes in control of insurance companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and




 



     
        • 

    
    regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.





 


    State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the



    
    36



Table of Contents




    amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the
    liabilities that we have currently established for these
    potential liabilities may not be adequate. See
    “Business — Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation — Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements.”


 


    State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    The NAIC and several states’ legislatures have considered
    the need for regulations
    and/or laws
    to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of
    investigations of broker compensation in the State of New York
    and in other jurisdictions. The NAIC adopted a Compensation
    Disclosure Amendment to its Producers Licensing Model Act which,
    if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or
    brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents
    or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented
    acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer
    also compensates the agent or broker. Several states have
    enacted laws similar to the NAIC amendment. We cannot predict
    how many states may promulgate the NAIC amendment or alternative
    regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a
    material adverse impact on our business.


 


    Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However, federal legislation
    and administrative policies in several areas can significantly
    and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include
    financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension
    regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In
    addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of
    insurance have been proposed. These proposals include the
    National Insurance Act of 2007, which would permit an optional
    federal charter for insurers. We cannot predict whether this or
    other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such
    proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.


 


    Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is
    similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. Many of
    our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate
    in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that
    affect their operations also may affect our business
    relationships with them and their ability to purchase or
    distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of the Holding Company’s subsidiaries that could,
    if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot
    predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that
    could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.


 



    Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our
    Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and
    Harm to Our Reputation


 


    We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits
    and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See “Legal Proceedings”
    and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



    
    37



Table of Contents




    Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with
    any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties can include how
    fact finders will view individually and in their totality
    documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of
    witnesses’ testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.


 


    On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory
    investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be
    reflected in our consolidated financial statements. The review
    includes senior legal and financial personnel. Unless stated
    elsewhere herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss
    for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made
    with a reasonable degree of certainty. See “Legal
    Proceedings” and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. Liabilities are established when it is
    probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the
    loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of matters noted in “Legal
    Proceedings” and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. It is possible that some of the matters
    could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or
    establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated as of
    December 31, 2007.


 


    MLIC and MetLife, Inc. have been named as defendants in several
    lawsuits brought in connection with MLIC’s demutualization
    in 2000. Although most of these lawsuits have been dismissed,
    two have been certified as nationwide class action lawsuits.
    MLIC and its affiliates also are currently defendants in
    hundreds of lawsuits raising allegations of improper marketing
    and sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities.
    These lawsuits are generally referred to as sales practices
    claims.


 


    In addition, MLIC is a defendant in thousands of lawsuits
    seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
    allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. These lawsuits principally have been based upon
    allegations relating to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC’s employees during the
    period from the 1920’s through approximately the
    1950’s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate
    its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable
    uncertainty due to numerous factors. The availability of data is
    limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty
    numerous variables that can affect liability estimates,
    including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve
    claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the
    jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact
    of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. The
    number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate
    amount of any liability that MLIC may ultimately incur is
    uncertain. Accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total
    exposure to asbestos claims may be greater than the liability
    recorded by us in our consolidated financial statements and that
    future charges to income may be necessary. The potential future
    charges could be material in particular quarterly or annual
    periods in which they are recorded.


 


    We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.


 


    We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory



    
    38



Table of Contents




    scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could
    result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide
    regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other
    Standard-Setting
    Bodies May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Statements


 


    Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
    and/or
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. It is possible that future accounting standards
    we are required to adopt could change the current accounting
    treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements
    and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations May
    Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also “securities,”
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of
    which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a
    registered investment company under the Investment Company Act.
    In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life
    insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are
    registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other
    subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under
    the Exchange Act, and are members of, and subject to, regulation
    by FINRA. Further, some of the Holding Company’s
    subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC
    under the Investment Advisers Act, and are also registered as
    investment advisers in various states, as applicable.


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or
    regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations
    governing the registration and distribution of variable
    insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards
    for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life
    insurance policies, could have such a material adverse effect.


 



    Changes
    in Tax Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers; Changes in Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or
    Interpretations of Such Laws or Regulations Could Increase Our
    Corporate Taxes


 


    Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. For example, reductions in the federal
    income tax that investors are required to pay on long-term
    capital gains and dividends paid on stock may provide an
    incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to
    shift assets away from some insurance company products,
    including life insurance and annuities, designed to defer taxes
    payable on investment returns. Because the income taxes payable
    on long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on stock has
    been reduced, investors may decide that the tax-deferral
    benefits of annuity contracts are less advantageous than the
    potential after-tax income benefits of mutual funds or other
    investment products that provide dividends and long-term capital
    gains. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts
    and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from
    sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we
    earn investment income.


 


    We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of
    any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any
    legislation would have a material adverse effect on our



    
    39



Table of Contents




    financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore,
    changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such
    laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes.


 



    State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws
    and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay, Deter or Prevent
    Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might
    Consider in Their Best Interests


 


    State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc.’s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.


 


    Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or
    impede a business combination involving us. State insurance laws
    prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance
    company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance
    regulator. Under most states’ statutes, an entity is
    presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns,
    directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that
    insurance company or its parent company. Federal banking
    authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of
    control of our banking operations. In addition, the Investment
    Company Act would require approval by the contract owners of our
    variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of
    any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying
    our variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be
    necessary for a change of control of any FINRA registered
    broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc.


 


    In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an “interested
    stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder.” An
    “interested stockholder” is defined to include persons
    owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding
    voting stock of a corporation.


 


    MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc.’s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.


 


    The stockholder rights plan adopted by MetLife, Inc.’s
    Board of Directors may also have anti-takeover effects. The
    stockholder rights plan is designed to protect MetLife,
    Inc.’s stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to
    acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics which, in the
    opinion of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors, could impair
    its ability to represent stockholder interests. The provisions
    of the stockholder rights plan may render an unsolicited
    takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent
    such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer MetLife,
    Inc.’s stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at
    a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by
    a majority of MetLife, Inc.’s stockholders.


 



    As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends


 


    MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. If the
    cash the Holding Company receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its



    
    40



Table of Contents




    debt service and other holding company obligations, the Holding
    Company may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of
    debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets.


 


    The payment of dividends and other distributions to the Holding
    Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to the
    Holding Company if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. See
    “Business — Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation,” “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — The Holding Company” and Note 18
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries to the Holding Company
    could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends
    or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary
    transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations
    in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate.
    See “— Our International Operations Face
    Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks That Could
    Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.”


 



    MetLife,
    Inc.’s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust


 


    Under MLIC’s plan of reorganization, as amended (the
    “Plan”), we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust
    (the “Trust”) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving
    cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 25,
    2008, 258,577,341 shares, or 36.3%, of the outstanding
    shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, are held in the Trust.
    Because of the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting
    provisions of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of
    matters brought to a stockholder vote.


 


    Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such
    recommendations, as directed by the board. As a result of the
    voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be
    able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.


 


    If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder’s proposal to oppose a board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;




 



     
        • 

    
    any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and




 



     
        • 

    
    any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan,
    other than a proposal with respect to which we have received
    advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that
    the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action
    under Delaware law.





 


    If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by trust beneficiaries.



    
    41



Table of Contents





    We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies


 


    The Plan required that we establish and operate an accounting
    mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the
    reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own
    certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See
    Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We
    allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will
    produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from
    the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably
    expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities
    relating to these policies, including, but not limited to,
    provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and
    tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder
    dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying
    such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such
    scales if the experience changes. We cannot provide assurance
    that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the
    closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the
    policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to
    provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If
    they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. Even if
    they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to
    support policyholder dividend payments with our general account
    funds.


 


    The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.


 



    The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio


 


    The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States
    and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by
    the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict whether,
    and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities. The continued threat of terrorism
    also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced
    insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk
    than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain
    reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions also could
    disrupt our operations centers in the United States or abroad.
    In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in
    higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated.


 



    The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated In Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively


 


    In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and
    electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized
    tampering with our computer systems. In addition, in the event
    that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in
    the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct
    business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also
    may interfere with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods
    and services and our employees ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.



    
    42



Table of Contents





    We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities or Asset Impairments Arising from
    Possible Acquisitions and Dispositions of
    Businesses


 


    We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments,
    including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
    the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may
    acquire in the future. In addition, there may be liabilities or
    asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in
    the course of performing due diligence investigations on each
    business that we have acquired or may acquire.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B