Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability


 


    Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and GICs, expose us to the risk that
    changes in interest rates will reduce our “spread,” or
    the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay
    under the contracts in the Company’s general account and
    the rate of return we are able to earn on general account
    investments intended to support obligations under the contracts.
    Our spread is a key component of our net income.


 


    As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and
    mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with
    greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates
    can help offset decreases in investment margins on some
    products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be
    limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates
    and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset
    yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially
    become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an
    important component in the amortization of DAC and VOBA and
    significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate
    amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected
    reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining
    interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be
    relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting
    in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium
    features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency,
    or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force
    from year to year, during a period when our new investments
    carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could
    also reduce our return on investments that do not support
    particular policy obligations. Accordingly, declining interest
    rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations,
    financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our
    profitability.



    
    27



Table of Contents



 


    Our results in Taiwan are highly sensitive to interest rates and
    other related assumptions because of the sustained low interest
    rate environment in Taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate
    guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health
    contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of
    long-duration assets in the Taiwanese capital markets to match
    such long-duration liabilities. During the fourth quarter of
    2006, our Taiwanese operation recorded a loss recognition
    adjustment (in the form of accelerated DAC amortization) of
    $50 million, net of income tax, due, principally, to the
    continued low interest rate environment. The loss recognition
    testing that resulted in the charge during the fourth quarter of
    2006 used a current best estimate of Taiwanese interest rates of
    2.1% rising to 3.5% over the next ten years and a corresponding
    increase in related lapse rates. If interest rates and related
    lapse assumptions do not improve, notwithstanding other actions
    we may take to reduce the impact, current estimates of future
    loss recognition of as much as $250 million, net of income
    tax, could be recognized in our results of operations in one or
    more future periods and additional capital may be required to be
    contributed to the Taiwanese operation. The results of loss
    recognition testing for Taiwan are inherently uncertain given
    the use of various assumptions and the long-term nature of the
    liability, and therefore, can only be reliably estimated within
    broad ranges which may vary significantly in future periods.


 


    Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    assets in the Company’s general account with higher
    yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates
    necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We,
    therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower
    profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of
    existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
    loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as
    policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as
    interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows
    requiring that we sell invested assets at a time when the prices
    of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market
    interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses.
    Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to
    accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which would
    increase our current expenses and reduce net income. An increase
    in market interest rates could also have a material adverse
    effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by
    decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that
    comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio.


 



    Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses


 


    Our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of
    trends that affect the insurance industry. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Results of
    Operations — Industry Trends.”


 


    Financial Environment.  The current financial
    environment presents a challenge for the life insurance
    industry. The level of long-term interest rates and the shape of
    the yield curve can have a negative impact on the demand for and
    the profitability of spread-based products such as fixed
    annuities, GICs and universal life insurance. A flat or inverted
    yield curve and low long-term interest rates will be a concern
    until new money rates on corporate bonds are higher than overall
    life insurer investment portfolio yields. Recent volatile equity
    market performance has also presented challenges for life
    insurers, as fee revenue from variable annuities and pension
    products is tied to separate account balances, which reflect
    equity market performance. Also, variable annuity product demand
    often mirrors consumer demand for equity market investments. See
    “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability.”


 


    Competitive Pressures.  The life insurance
    industry remains highly competitive. The product development and
    product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments,
    leading to more intense competition with respect to product
    features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand
    equity, product development, technology and risk management,
    which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth
    in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the
    industry’s products can be quite homogeneous and subject to
    intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength
    and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for
    sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market
    participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional
    distribution capability and the information technology needed to
    offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly
    sophisticated industry client base. See
    “— Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability” and
    “Business — Competition.”



    
    28



Table of Contents



 


    Regulatory Changes.  The life insurance
    industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and
    services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers
    introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine
    capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for
    the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or
    currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and
    capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators
    have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several
    markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities,
    variable annuities and group products. See “— Our
    Insurance Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth” and “Business —
    Regulation — Insurance Regulation.”


 


    Pension Plans.  On August 17, 2006,
    President Bush signed the PPA. The PPA is a comprehensive reform
    of defined benefit and defined contribution plan rules. Defined
    benefit funding reforms may result in an increase in the shift
    from defined benefit to defined contribution programs and
    increased defined benefit plan freezes and terminations. These
    changes may adversely affect our business.


 



    A
    Decline in Equity Markets or an Increase in Volatility in Equity
    Markets May Adversely Affect Sales of Our Investment Products
    and Our Profitability


 


    Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations in three principal ways.


 


    First, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases
    of separate account products, such as variable annuities,
    variable life insurance and mutual funds that have returns
    linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause
    some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce
    investments in those products.


 


    Second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our
    savings and investment products and services. Because these
    products and services depend on fees related primarily to the
    value of assets under management, a decline in the equity
    markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the
    investment assets we manage. The retail annuity business in
    particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a
    sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and
    earnings in variable annuity products.


 


    Third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products
    that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the
    equity markets. For example, we offer variable annuity products
    with guaranteed features, such as minimum death and withdrawal
    benefits. These guarantees may be more costly than expected in
    volatile or declining equity market conditions, causing us to
    increase liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively
    affecting net income.


 



    The
    Performance of Our Investments Depends on Conditions that Are
    Outside Our Control, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary from
    Period to Period


 


    The performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon
    the level of and changes in interest rates, equity prices, real
    estate values, the performance of the economy in general, the
    performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio
    and other factors that are beyond our control. Changes in these
    factors can affect our net investment income in any period, and
    such changes can be substantial.


 


    We invest a portion of our invested assets in pooled investment
    funds that make private equity investments. The amount and
    timing of income from such investment funds tend to be uneven as
    a result of the performance of the underlying private equity
    investments, which can be difficult to predict, as well as the
    timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on
    particular events relating to the underlying investments, as
    well as the funds’ schedules for making distributions and
    their needs for cash. As a result, the amount of income that we
    record from these investments can vary substantially from
    quarter to quarter.


 



    Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability


 


    Our business segments are subject to intense competition. We
    believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
    including service, product features, scale, price, financial
    strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
    e-business
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as



    
    29



Table of Contents




    non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks,
    broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers,
    employers and other group customers and agents and other
    distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these
    companies offer a broader array of products, have more
    competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurers, have
    higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may also have greater
    financial resources with which to compete. National banks, which
    may sell annuity products of life insurers in some
    circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for
    financial services products.


 


    Many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by
    our Institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and,
    accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able
    to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a
    result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other
    products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.


 


    In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. Many of our competitors in these
    businesses offer a broader array of investment products and
    services and are better known than us as sellers of annuities
    and other investment products. See “Business —
    Competition.”


 



    We May
    be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products


 


    We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for sales
    representatives primarily on the basis of our financial
    position, support services and compensation and product
    features. We continue to undertake several initiatives to grow
    our career agency force while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents. See “Business — Competition.”


 



    Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results


 


    Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will
    need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance
    and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on
    many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to
    be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of
    the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of
    benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the
    assets we purchase with the premiums we receive. We establish
    liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based
    on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities
    incurred. To the extent that actual claims experience is less
    favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in
    establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase
    our liabilities.


 


    Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our
    liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
    particularly when those payments may not occur until well into
    the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on
    changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as
    well as our actual experience. We charge or credit changes in
    our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are
    established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally
    established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we
    must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business


 


    Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires,
    among other things, policies and procedures to record properly
    and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have
    devoted significant resources to



    
    30



Table of Contents




    develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect
    to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies
    and procedures may not be fully effective. Many of our methods
    for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of
    observed historical market behavior or statistics based on
    historical models. As a result, these methods may not predict
    future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our
    historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods
    depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets,
    clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is
    publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This
    information may not always be accurate, complete,
    up-to-date
    or properly evaluated. See “Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 



    Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability


 


    Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including
    governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating
    the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material
    impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group insurance
    operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one
    or more of our group insurance customers could cause a
    significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These
    events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could
    also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.


 


    Our Auto & Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto & Home
    segment. Although Auto & Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail,
    tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow,
    freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires, and man-made
    events such as terrorist attacks. Historically, substantially
    all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners
    coverages. However, catastrophes may also affect other
    Auto & Home coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot
    predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Impact of
    Hurricanes” and Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.


 


    Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern United States (including
    lower New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts),
    the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana)
    and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure, primarily
    along the New Madrid fault line in the central United States and
    in the Pacific Northwest. Losses incurred by Auto &
    Home from all catastrophes, net of reinsurance but before tax,
    were $128 million, $286 million and $189 million
    in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The 2006 and 2005 numbers
    include loss and loss adjustment expenses and reinstatement and
    additional reinsurance-related premiums which were caused by the
    magnitude of reinsurance recoverables.


 


    The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics,
    hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
    significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are
    heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial
    condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value and geographic concentration of insured property
    and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of
    claims from catastrophic events in the future.


 


    Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed



    
    31



Table of Contents




    legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of
    insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an
    insurer’s ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas.
    While we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels,
    subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory
    authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic
    events could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See “— Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.”


 



    A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) publish as
    indicators of an insurance company’s ability to meet
    contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to
    maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to
    market our products and our competitive position. See
    “Business — Company Ratings —
    Insurer Financial Strength Ratings.”


 


    Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;



 


     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;



 


     
        • 

    
    materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;



 


     
        • 

    
    requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and



 


     
        • 

    
    adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.





 


    In addition to the financial strength ratings of the Holding
    Company’s insurance subsidiaries, various NRSROs also
    publish credit ratings for MetLife, Inc. and several of its
    subsidiaries. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt
    issuer’s ability to meet the terms of the debt obligations
    in a timely manner. See “Business — Company
    Ratings — Credit Ratings.” A downgrade in our
    credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations in many ways,
    including increasing the cost of borrowing or adversely
    affecting our relationships with credit counterparties.


 


    As a result of the additional securities that we issued to
    finance a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of
    Travelers, our leverage ratio increased moderately, but returned
    to pre-acquisition levels by December 31, 2006.


 


    Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors, some
    of which relate to general economic conditions and circumstances
    outside of our control. In addition, rating agencies may employ
    different models and formulas to assess our financial strength
    and creditworthiness, and may alter these models from time to
    time at their discretion. We cannot predict what actions rating
    agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to
    the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our
    business.


 



    If our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC and VOBA Vary
    Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization
    and/or
    Impair the DAC and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results
    of Operations or Financial Condition


 


    We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    The amount of future profit is dependent principally on
    investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
    creditworthiness of reinsurance



    
    32



Table of Contents




    counterparties and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment
    returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of
    such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into
    management’s estimates of gross profits, which generally
    are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of gross
    profits were overstated, then the amortization of such costs
    would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is
    known and would result in a charge to income. Such adjustments
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations or financial condition.


 


    VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in
    a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion
    of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the
    right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and
    annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is
    based on actuarially determined projections. Actual experience
    may vary from the projections. Revisions to estimates result in
    changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which
    the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a
    charge to income. Also, as VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC,
    an acceleration of the amortization of VOBA would occur if the
    estimates of gross profits were overstated. Accordingly, the
    amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in
    which the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    condition.


 



    If the
    Travelers Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to
    Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
    Asset or to Recognize an Impairment of Our Goodwill, Established
    at the Acquisition, Which Could Adversely Affect our Results of
    Operations or Financial Condition


 


    As a result of the acquisition of Travelers, we recognized net
    deferred income tax assets of $2.1 billion and established
    goodwill of $4.3 billion.


 


    The deferred income tax asset was recorded upon acquisition as a
    result of an election made under the Internal Revenue Code
    Section 338. This election resulted in a
    step-up in
    tax basis of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed upon
    the Travelers acquisition. The realizability of the deferred
    income tax asset is assessed periodically by management. If,
    based on available information, it is more likely than not that
    the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a
    valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding
    charge to net income.


 


    Goodwill is established as the excess of cost over the fair
    value of net assets acquired. We test goodwill at least annually
    for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon
    estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to
    which the goodwill relates. The reporting unit is the operating
    segment, or a business one level below that operating segment if
    discrete financial information is prepared and regularly
    reviewed by management at that level. The fair value of the
    reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business.
    If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must
    write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a
    corresponding charge to net income. Such write downs could have
    a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
    financial condition.


 



    Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Value of Our Fixed
    Maturity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings


 


    We are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed
    maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest
    payments they owe us. At December 31, 2006, the fixed
    maturity securities of $243 billion in our investment
    portfolio represented 73% of our total cash and invested assets.
    The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate
    malfeasance or other events that adversely affect the issuers of
    these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity
    securities portfolio and our net earnings to decline and the
    default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment
    portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting particular
    issuers or securities could also have a similar effect. With
    economic uncertainty and increasing interest rates, credit
    quality of issuers could be adversely affected. Any event
    reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary
    basis could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Defaults
    on Our Mortgage and Consumer Loans May Adversely Affect Our
    Profitability


 


    Our mortgage and consumer loan investments face default risk.
    Our mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized
    by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well
    as automobiles. At



    
    33



Table of Contents




    December 31, 2006, our mortgage and consumer loan
    investments of $42.2 billion represented 12.7% of our total
    cash and invested assets. At December 31, 2006, loans that
    were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled
    less than 1% of our mortgage and consumer loan investments. The
    performance of our mortgage and consumer loan investments,
    however, may fluctuate in the future. In addition, substantially
    all of our mortgage loan investments have balloon payment
    maturities. An increase in the default rate of our mortgage and
    consumer loan investments could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid


 


    Our investments in privately placed fixed maturity securities,
    mortgage and consumer loans, and equity real estate, including
    real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests are relatively illiquid. These asset classes
    represented 25.6% of the carrying value of our total cash and
    invested assets as of December 31, 2006. If we require
    significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal
    cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these
    investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less
    than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.


 



    Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities
    Markets Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability


 


    We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated securities and investments in foreign subsidiaries.
    If the currencies of the
    non-U.S. dollar
    denominated securities we hold in our investment portfolios
    decline against the U.S. dollar, our investment returns,
    and thus our profitability, may be adversely affected. Although
    we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate
    foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance
    that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties
    will perform their obligations. See “Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”


 


    From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    emerging markets.


 


    We have matched substantially all of our foreign currency
    liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated
    in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of
    currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results;
    however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of
    these results into our consolidated financial statements.
    Although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign
    currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely
    affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the
    failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See
    “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk.”


 



    Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability


 


    Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See “Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers’ associations and
    trade unions in some countries. If our business model is not
    successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of
    our investment in building and training the sales force in that
    country.


 


    We are currently planning to expand our international operations
    in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This
    may require considerable management time, as well as
    start-up
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market



    
    34



Table of Contents




    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.


 


    The business we acquired from Travelers includes operations in
    several foreign countries, including Australia, Brazil,
    Argentina, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Poland, Japan and Hong
    Kong. See “Business — International.” Those
    operations, and operations in other new markets, are subject to
    the risks described above, as well as our unfamiliarity with the
    business, legal and regulatory environment in any of those
    countries.


 


    In recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been
    challenging. In Argentina, we are principally engaged in the
    pension business. This business has incurred significant losses
    in recent years as a result of actions taken by the Argentinean
    government in response to a sovereign debt crisis in December
    2001. Further governmental or legal actions related to pension
    reform could impact our obligations to our customers and could
    result in future losses in our Argentinean operations.


 


    See also “— Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability” regarding the
    impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.


 



    Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses


 


    As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See
    “Business — Reinsurance Activity.” For
    example, we currently reinsure up to 90% of the mortality risk
    in excess of $1 million for most new individual life
    insurance policies that we write through our various franchises.
    While reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for
    the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing,
    market conditions beyond our control determine the availability
    and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In
    certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business
    already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in the amount
    of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase
    in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount
    of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be
    forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not
    be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms,
    which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.


 



    If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations


 


    We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer’s or indemnitor’s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate and
    currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
    “Business — Investments.” If our
    counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under
    these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk
    will be ineffective. Such failure could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Our
    Insurance Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth


 


    Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. State insurance laws
    regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and
    the Holding Company’s insurance



    
    35



Table of Contents




    subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the
    states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they
    are licensed. Our
    non-U.S. insurance
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and
    operate. See “Business — Regulation —
    Insurance Regulation.”


 


    State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory
    authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among
    other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    licensing companies and agents to transact business;



 


     
        • 

    
    calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    mandating certain insurance benefits;



 


     
        • 

    
    regulating certain premium rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    reviewing and approving policy forms;



 


     
        • 

    
    regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;



 


     
        • 

    
    regulating advertising;



 


     
        • 

    
    protecting privacy;



 


     
        • 

    
    establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;



 


     
        • 

    
    fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;



 


     
        • 

    
    approving changes in control of insurance companies;



 


     
        • 

    
    restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and



 


     
        • 

    
    regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.





 


    State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an
    assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
    currently established for these potential liabilities may not be
    adequate. See “Business — Regulation —
    Insurance Regulation — Guaranty Associations and
    Similar Arrangements.”


 


    State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    The NAIC and several states’ legislatures have recently
    considered the need for regulations
    and/or laws
    to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of
    recent investigations of broker compensation in the State of New
    York and in other jurisdictions. The NAIC has adopted a
    Compensation Disclosure Amendment to its Producers Licensing
    Model Act which, if adopted by the states, would require
    disclosure by agents or brokers to customers that insurers will
    compensate such agents or brokers for the placement of insurance
    and documented acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases
    where the customer also compensates the agent or broker. Several
    states have recently enacted laws similar to the NAIC amendment.
    Some other states have considered other proposed requirements,
    also relating to disclosure rather than the regulation of the
    substance of compensation. We cannot predict how many states may
    promulgate the NAIC amendment or alternative regulations or the
    extent to which these regulations may have a material adverse
    impact on our business.


 


    Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However, federal legislation
    and administrative policies in several areas can significantly
    and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include
    financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension
    regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In
    addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of
    insurance have been proposed.



    
    36



Table of Contents




    These proposals include the National Insurance Act of 2006,
    which would permit an optional federal charter for insurers. We
    cannot predict whether this or other proposals will be adopted,
    or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such
    laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results
    of operations.


 


    Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is
    similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. Many of
    our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate
    in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that
    affect their operations also may affect our business
    relationships with them and their ability to purchase or
    distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of the Holding Company’s subsidiaries that could,
    if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot
    predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that
    could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.


 



    Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in the
    Insurance Business and May Result in Significant Financial
    Losses and Harm to Our Reputation


 


    We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, additional premium charges
    for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of
    benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See “Legal Proceedings”
    and Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with
    any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties can include how
    fact finders will view individually and in their totality
    documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of
    witnesses’ testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.


 


    On a quarterly and yearly basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to liabilities for litigation and contingencies to
    be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. The
    review includes senior legal and financial personnel. Unless
    stated elsewhere herein, estimates of possible additional losses
    or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary
    course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. See
    “Legal Proceedings” and Note 15 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Liabilities are established
    when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount
    of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of the matters noted in “Legal
    Proceedings” and Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. It is possible that some of the matters
    could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or
    establish liabilities in amounts that could not be estimated as
    of December 31, 2006.


 


    Metropolitan Life and its affiliates are currently defendants in
    hundreds of lawsuits raising allegations of improper marketing
    and sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities.
    These lawsuits are generally referred to as “sales
    practices claims.” Metropolitan Life is also a defendant in
    thousands of lawsuits seeking compensatory



    
    37



Table of Contents




    and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by
    exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products. These
    lawsuits principally have been based upon allegations relating
    to certain research, publication and other activities of one or
    more of Metropolitan Life’s employees during the period
    from the 1920’s through approximately the 1950’s and
    have alleged that Metropolitan Life learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of Metropolitan Life
    to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to
    considerable uncertainty due to numerous factors. The
    availability of data is limited and it is difficult to predict
    with any certainty numerous variables that can affect liability
    estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to
    resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the
    jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact
    of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. The
    number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate
    amount of any liability that Metropolitan Life may ultimately
    incur is uncertain. Accordingly, it is reasonably possible that
    our total exposure to asbestos claims may be greater than the
    liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial
    statements and that future charges to income may be necessary.
    The potential future charges could be material in particular
    quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. In
    addition, Metropolitan Life and MetLife, Inc. have been named as
    defendants in several lawsuits brought in connection with
    Metropolitan Life’s demutualization in 2000.


 


    We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.


 


    The insurance industry has become the focus of increased
    scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities. This
    scrutiny includes the commencement of investigations and other
    proceedings by the New York State Attorney General and other
    governmental authorities relating to allegations of improper
    conduct in connection with the payment of, and disclosure with
    respect to, contingent commissions paid by insurance companies
    to intermediaries, the solicitation and provision of fictitious
    or inflated quotes, and the use of inducements in the sale of
    insurance products.


 


    One possible result of these investigations and attendant
    lawsuits is that many insurance industry practices and customs
    may change, including, but not limited to, the manner in which
    insurance is marketed and distributed through independent
    brokers and agents. Our business strategy contemplates that we
    will rely heavily on both intermediaries and our internal sales
    force to market and distribute insurance products. We cannot
    predict how industry regulation with respect to the use of
    intermediaries may change. Such changes, however, could
    adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy,
    which could materially affect our growth and profitability.


 


    Recent industry-wide inquiries also include those regarding
    market timing and late trading in mutual funds and variable
    insurance products and, generally, the marketing of products.
    The SEC has commenced an investigation with respect to market
    timing and late trading in a limited number of privately-placed
    variable insurance contracts that were sold through MetLife,
    Inc.’s subsidiary, General American. As previously
    reported, in May 2004, General American received a Wells Notice
    stating that the SEC staff is considering recommending that the
    SEC bring a civil action alleging violations of the
    U.S. securities laws against General American. Under SEC
    procedures, General American can avail itself of the opportunity
    to respond to the SEC staff before it makes a formal
    recommendation regarding whether any action alleging violations
    of the U.S. securities laws should be considered. General
    American has responded to the Wells Notice. We are fully
    cooperating with regard to this investigation.


 


    We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory



    
    38



Table of Contents




    scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could
    result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide
    regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Statements


 


    Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
    and/or
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. It is possible that future accounting standards
    we are required to adopt could change the current accounting
    treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements
    and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations
    May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also “securities,”
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Each
    registered separate account is generally divided into
    sub-accounts,
    each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is
    itself a registered investment company under the Investment
    Company Act of 1940. In addition, the variable annuity contracts
    and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate
    accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of
    1933. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as
    broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and
    are members of, and subject to, regulation by NASD. Further,
    some of the Holding Company’s subsidiaries are registered
    as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment
    Advisers Act of 1940, and are also registered as investment
    advisers in various states, as applicable.


 


    Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or
    regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations
    governing the registration and distribution of variable
    insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards
    under which the sale of a variable annuity contract or variable
    life insurance policy is considered suitable for a particular
    customer, could have such a material adverse effect.


 



    Changes
    in Tax Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers


 


    Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. For example, reductions in the federal
    income tax that investors are required to pay on long-term
    capital gains and dividends paid on stock may provide an
    incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to
    shift assets away from some insurance company products,
    including life insurance and annuities, designed to defer taxes
    payable on investment returns. Because the income taxes payable
    on long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on stock has
    been reduced, investors may decide that the tax-deferral
    benefits of annuity contracts are less advantageous than the
    potential after-tax income benefits of mutual funds or other
    investment products that provide dividends and long-term capital
    gains. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts
    and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from
    sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we
    earn investment income.


 


    We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of
    any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any
    legislation would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.



    
    39



Table of Contents



 



    State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws
    and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay, Deter or Prevent
    Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might
    Consider in Their Best Interests


 


    State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc.’s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc.’s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.


 


    Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or
    impede a business combination involving us. State insurance laws
    prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance
    company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance
    regulator. Under most states’ statutes, an entity is
    presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns,
    directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that
    insurance company or its parent company. Federal banking
    authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of
    control of our banking operations. In addition, the Investment
    Company Act of 1940 would require approval by the contract
    owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change
    of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund
    underlying our variable contracts. Finally, NASD approval would
    be necessary for a change of control of any NASD registered
    broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc.


 


    In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an “interested
    stockholder” to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an “interested stockholder.” An
    “interested stockholder” is defined to include persons
    owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding
    voting stock of a corporation.


 


    MetLife, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc.’s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.


 


    The stockholder rights plan adopted by MetLife, Inc.’s
    Board of Directors may also have anti-takeover effects. The
    stockholder rights plan is designed to protect MetLife,
    Inc.’s stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to
    acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics which, in the
    opinion of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors, could impair
    its ability to represent stockholder interests. The provisions
    of the stockholder rights plan may render an unsolicited
    takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent
    such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer MetLife,
    Inc.’s stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at
    a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by
    a majority of MetLife, Inc.’s stockholders.


 



    As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends


 


    MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. If the
    cash the Holding Company receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding
    company obligations, the Holding Company may be required to
    raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of
    additional equity or the sale of assets.



    
    40



Table of Contents



 


    The payment of dividends and other distributions to the Holding
    Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to the
    Holding Company if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. See
    “Business — Regulation — Insurance
    Regulation,” “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — The Holding Company” and Note 17
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries to the Holding Company
    could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends
    or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary
    transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations
    in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate.
    See “— Our International Operations Face
    Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risk That Could
    Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.”


 



    MetLife,
    Inc.’s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust


 


    Under Metropolitan Life’s plan of reorganization, we
    established the MetLife Policyholder Trust (the
    “Trust”) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc. common
    stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or
    policy credits under the plan. As of February 26, 2007,
    274,293,334 shares, or 36.3%, of the outstanding shares of
    MetLife, Inc. common stock, are held in the Trust. Because of
    the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting provisions
    of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of matters
    brought to a stockholder vote.


 


    Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such
    recommendations, as directed by the board. As a result of the
    voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be
    able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.


 


    If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder’s proposal to oppose a board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;



 


     
        • 

    
    any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and



 


     
        • 

    
    any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan,
    other than a proposal with respect to which we have received
    advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that
    the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action
    under Delaware law.





 


    If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by trust beneficiaries.



    
    41



Table of Contents



 



    We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies


 


    The plan of reorganization entered into in connection with
    Metropolitan Life’s 2000 demutualization required that we
    establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed
    block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of
    policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of
    Metropolitan Life are met. See Note 9 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements. We allocated assets to the
    closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which,
    together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in
    the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to
    support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies,
    including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of
    claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the
    continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for
    1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and
    for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience
    changes. We cannot provide assurance that the closed block
    assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and
    the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed
    block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed
    under these policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund
    the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for
    competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments
    with our general account funds.


 


    The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.


 



    The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio


 


    The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States
    and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by
    the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict whether,
    and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities. The continued threat of terrorism
    also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced
    insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk
    than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain
    reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions also could
    disrupt our operations centers in the United States or abroad.
    In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in
    higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated.


 



    The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated In Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively


 


    In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and
    electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized
    tampering with our computer systems. In addition, in the event
    that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in
    the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct
    business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also
    may interfere with our suppliers’ ability to provide goods
    and services and our employees ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.



    
    42



Table of Contents



 



    We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities Arising from Possible Acquisitions
    and Dispositions of Businesses


 


    We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    There could be unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection
    with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we
    may acquire in the future. In addition, there may be liabilities
    that we fail, or we are unable, to discover in the course of
    performing due diligence investigations on each business that we
    have acquired or may acquire.


 



    Item 1B